Before You Bale Grass Hay:  Let Your Field go to Seed Prior to First Cutting!  Self-Seeding!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-3_xCNu1mtI
Howto & Style
 Hey everyone, it's Tim from Lone House of Arms, especially in heirloom livestock. Thanks for joining us again today. If you have a pasture like we do and you do some baling, we want you to watch this before you do your first cutting. Stay tuned to find out more. Alright, so here we are. We are in Northwest Indiana and it is the weekend before Memorial Day. We usually like to say we get our first cutting out of the fields no later than Memorial Day weekend. As you can see my orchard grass and my pasture that I am actually going to make bales out of. We are going to make round bales out of this here in about a week or actually within a few days. But you will notice that it is awfully darn tall and it is all going to seed. Some people may tell you that that is not necessarily a good thing to do especially with your first cutting. The reason for that is you can see how stemmy this is. This is orchard grass and you can see how stemmy that is. It doesn't make necessarily very good hay. It depends on the animals. Goats will eat this up pretty good. But that stemminess makes that hay a little harder and a little less soft. So while we do appreciate that we have second and third cuttings that will be nice and soft and be more grassy. If you look down here lower you will actually see we do have quite a bit of clover and we do have some alfalfa that is in here as well to add some softness. But you may ask yourself why do I let it go to seed like this? Why would I allow that stemminess to go? And if you look when I do that you can see the reason why. Do you see you probably can see all these little seeds that are coming off of here. And that is exactly why we let this go to seed. If you follow me in here a little bit farther and we look closely anywhere. Let's look down right here. Look on top of this clover and you can see see all these little grains of rice that look like little grains of rice on top of this clover. And that is actually grass seed. This works out fantastic. I don't know how much you enjoy spending money on seed but we don't enjoy spending it too much at all. So for our first cutting we always allow our orchard grass and our other grasses to actually go to seed. That way when our baler comes through and we mow this down we've got good seed spread. It'll get down pretty well into good soil contact. And it will help to ensure that our pasture is basically over seeded. So with that being said just something for you to consider. Before first cutting let it go a little bit longer. Let it go a couple extra weeks. Let it go to seed and I think you'll notice some pretty substantial returns for your patients. This is actually Mavis. Mavis is our new puppy. She is a great Pyrenees and she's going to be protecting our livestock. So I guess this is as good a time as ever to introduce her to you. But she is out following us around. Anyhow, that is all I have to say right now about that. So thanks for joining us again today and I look forward to seeing you again next time.