Grazing and Haying Cover Crops with Josh Roe
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-GGIGsA72WQ
Education
 Music Thanks everyone for attendance. Going to talk a little bit about some cover crops today and some things that we've incorporated up on our operation in North Central Kansas. A lot of this started really from back in my extension days. I threw out there, would go to a lot of different field days, see a lot of presentations on the benefits of cover crops and saw them working in people's rotations for grazing, for haying, or just for increasing soil fertility, getting more use out of the soil, and the moisture, especially here in eastern Kansas. But I was seeing very little data, if any, on the economic returns that was coming from these cover crops. I was seeing a lot of costs that were incurring from that. And so, a couple years ago, I applied for a SARE producer grant to kind of look at some different treatments of applications for cover crops there. So, I chose a location on the farm, and this is on part of my dad's land, through that, that you really had good access, obviously, to water and pens for grazing, because for the grazing component there. Just a little bit about the field that I chose. It's a continuous, we're all kind of farm-wide. We are in between 15 to, some of our land has been in continuous no-till for 20, this would be, yeah, just ending the 22nd year through there. This particular field had been in continuous no-till for 15 years, had been in, had seen alfalfa, and then our typical corn, soybeans, and wheat dry land rotation there. Some slight variation in the field there. So, we chose, this was, this is a 61-acre plot through there, and I just kind of divided it in thirds, a plot for, that we were going to graze, a plot for haying, and then just a plot for, you know, leaving on the ground to look at the, look at the other piece there. So, ended up with two different mixes of cover crop seeds there. Very, very fortunate to have a neighbor, a good friend, and that by the name of Dale Strickler, works for Star Seeds. He's just down the road from me, so I, you know, I went to him and said, hey, what should I plant here? And he gave me all these options, and I was like, Dale, just tell me what to plant. And he's a, he knows what he's doing when it comes to this stuff, so I, I, I just went with his thing. So, for the parts for living alone in grazing, we went with the mix of 30 pounds of oats, 20 pounds of spring field peas, 3 pounds of radishes, couple pounds of turnips, and a pound of forage sorghum through that. It's something we kind of threw in at the end. And then for the haid, for the haid portion, which this makes perfect sense, we kept everything the same except we eliminated the radish and the turnips from there because, as Dale had experienced, you know, when you're going through, if you're swathing, your swather will kick up one of them turnishes or radishes or the baler could into the windrow, and if that gets into the bale, if that is not good, it's going to rot and probably ruin a good chunk of the bale. So, in that, in that third, I did not have the radishes and the turnips. So, we planted it into wheat stubble on August the 6th. It was kind of a, that would have been about three weeks after harvest that year. And then in non-typical north central Kansas weather, you know, you got to love this. You plant something on August 6th thinking, this is crazy, what's going to grow on August the 6th. And within two weeks, we had eight inches of rain. Very not typical for north central Kansas. And so, you want to talk about optimal rainfall through there. And you see that samples taken, I pulled samples on October 14th. And this was in the, this was in the, this was an average of the forage and non-forage. 18.15 tons per acre of wet weight through that. So, we produced a lot of forage in a very little amount of time, which is, which is just perfect. So, as you'll see a lot of my results here, I have a few disclaimers in that because, actually this past year, it would have worked probably just as well from that. But maybe you can't think of that as being your typical results. So, you're going to plant something like this in Kansas in mid-August and get 18 tons of product on acre. So, let's look at some of our costs here. You see what I have, the establishment costs for just the leaving alone. So, this is just what it costs to put the crop in the ground. I had $15.59 in additional chemical application. So, I did an extra, we did an extra roundup burn down on the wheat stubble there. So, that's the cost of the chemical and application. And then, as you noticed, you know, from that seed mix, if you know much about it, you're talking about a lot of different sizes of seeds there, a lot of different mix. And, I just felt the most comfortable are co-op up there, Aurora Co-op, has a really good custom drilling program with the right equipment. So, I thought that was a good investment. So, I went ahead and spent the 17, almost 17 and a half bucks an acre to have it custom drilled. And then, the seed was close to 40 bucks an acre, $33.79 for the mix that had the turnips and the radishes there. You know, you see the results, see the size of my hand. There was a tillage radish, just much larger than that out there. But, that, what I would call, is a pretty typical tillage radish size. It was, you know, more than half of the width of my hand and went down a substantial amount into the ground. A couple of the guys that worked for my dad swore, as they were going out and moving the fences around in that, they're like, there's turnips the size of volleyballs out there. And, I said, why don't you bring one back? I want to see one of these volleyball-sized turnips. And, one of those never came to fruition in reality. But, we did have quite a few turnips larger than softballs through that. So, on the haid portion, again, so we planted this August the 6th. October the 14th, we haid it. So, this was roughly a 21-acre plot. Got 38 bales, we just put it in round bales, averaging 1,750 pounds each. Had it tested, crude protein value, right, 16%, relative feed value, 150. So, I'd put this right at medium grade alfalfa there. You see, pretty healthy-looking wind rose through there. You know, we raked them and that. We did hit it right with getting it put up right before there was too much rain. I don't know how much you can see from there. We had had, it froze a lot earlier than it did this year then. You see, at that point, the forage sorghum had already, you know, it had gotten burned pretty good by the frost at that point through that. And so, what does that yield? Right at 1.59 tons per acre is what that came out. And so, at the time that this was taken, the going price for that grade, 150 relative feed value alfalfa, was right at 90 bucks per ton in our area. So, I assume if you were looking at this as an income per ton type of thing, that feed's worth $90 a ton sitting there in that shed. And then I had $73.40 worth of expenses in that for net income per ton, $16.66. And so, what does that do? Kind of the sensitivity prices there. So, again, you know, we're right here. I'm right here in this level from there. And if you're just comparing this and taking out any of the soil quality benefits and just looking at paying for the price of your seed, the planting, and putting the hay up, seeing if you could see where that would come from, you could afford at that price about $73 per ton is how far down the hay price could be. Now, unfortunately, where are we at today? Up in our area, we're here in this $55, maybe $60 per ton region is what hay would be. I think you'd probably be pretty happy if someone came and offered you $60 a ton for hay right now. So, maybe you're in $50 range. And so, at this price, you know, just kind of take note that, you know, even given the high yields and some of this through that, kind of the bottom line would be you could find some cheaper hay than what we produced on the field. But that's not. And so, you need to weigh in if you're thinking about this for your own operation, if that $30 of quote-unquote cost per ton is really worth, if you're getting enough benefits from the cover crops from that. So, and you'll see kind of some slides, some subsequent things that have happened on that farm that I think are worth quite a good amount. And so, just kind of the same thing. Here's where I was at 1.59 tons per acre. And you could substantiate about a 20% decrease in yield to still kind of break even, given those prices that were there after that. The grazing portion, we turned out the first package of steers, 58 head. They weighed 858 for 26 days. And just the way my family, we have a backgrounding feedlot up there. And it just kind of how it worked for the timing of our ranch. We ended up putting two sets of cattle, two on this grazing system, just the way things were timed. So, the first package was on there for 26 days. The second package was on there for 60 days. So, 86 days of grazing. Terminated the grazing on January the 17th is when, that's the last day they were out there. And then we do supplement, you know, the steers were brought into a pen. That's where the water was and everything. And they were supplemented with seven pounds of corn gluten pellets per day, every day. Regardless, forage during wet conditions. We had some wet days there. And you know, that is a working crop field out there that we didn't. There was several times, I think about 11 days throughout this time period, that we did not turn the cattle out. And so, we provided forage as a supplement feed during that time. And then something I never even thought of when I was designing this grant or looking at this project, is what did we end up feeding for forage? Was the hay that we put up in the shed there. You know, I just, it's kind of simple now when you think about it. It's like, of course you would do that. But it was just one of those steps. I never quite close that loop until, you know, we're thinking this through and hey, we can't turn the cattle out. Well, there is a shed full of hay that's that same crop that's up there. So, it really, it worked out. It just, that really worked out neat to have that, that portion of the hay part through that. So, that's the piece there. So, you look at 58 head total, over 86 days of grazing. And the average daily gain on these cattle, 2.13 pounds per day. So, it was really there. And if we just kind of normalize that, put it on over across the 58 head, there was pounds of gain per head, right over, a little over 183 pounds of gain, we got during this 86 day time period there. And so, the total cost, this doesn't obviously include the cost of livestock, but the cost of the, you know, the cover crops valuing the forage that we did there, the pellets. We even calculated some yardage costs and then even some, I calculated what the labor was for, to put up the electric fence and to move it. I costed everything out on that. Had about a cost per head for this 86 days, right under 124 bucks a head. Put that down to how many pounds we gained. Cost per pound of gain, 68 cents per pound there. And that stood up against any package of cattle we had that year, you know, as being the most economical way to put gain on cattle. Now, you'll notice, I chose just for a lot of reasons. There's a lot of things. If you remember what cattle prices were a year ago, they were in a lot better situation than now. A lot of things have changed since then. So, just for, as a fairness and to just go out there, I've just decided to kind of report from this cost per pounds of gain. Because you can imagine what we were, what we were selling cattle for then. This was a pretty profitable type of operation through that. And so, but I just, I really just chose to focus on this as the bottom line, is a pretty efficient way to put that. And again, I want to put some caution out there. We had really optimal rainfall and high cattle prices that year. And this worked very well. It was a great, it was a great, pretty large scale experiment and report. And I've enjoyed learning a lot and reporting it. And I've enjoyed continuing this, you know, without the help of the grant on other parts of our operation. But there's always just some caution I want to lay out there with that. And then some lessons learned. So the following May, received nine inches of rain in about the course of four hours on that field. And that was, it was something else. A lot of people, a lot of people lost a lot of ground. There was some significant goal erosion in portions of that field. But compared to, you saw, you know, how good of a, how good so, it's tough to see this picture, I'm sorry. But this is a portion that's hayed, so it's pretty far down. This is after the grazing had done. And you know, the steers had a good run of it. And it was still pretty, still had quite a bit of growth there. There was so much there holding the soil there. It's pretty tough. It's pretty hard to imagine what would have happened without that. And then there's surprisingly little regrowth after the hang. You know, we hayed that stuff in October. And you know, we'd swathed it. We didn't swath it down as low as you would like alfalfa or that regular. We had the header or the swather up a bit. But I figured there'd be some regrowth in that. Because it wasn't like in the dead of winter yet. You know, obviously mid-October. So it was interesting. There was a surprising little regrowth. And very, very little to know. That's always the $1,000 question, people with cover crops. Hey, can you attribute any, you know, decline, increase in the following year's crops? We planted corn that next year. And there was no impact on corn yield. But then again, did have adequate rainfall. And I will say, what was interesting about this is it's my farm that's across the road from this tract to land. And we were always on the same rotation schedule of that. And then obviously on my farm across the road, when the combine left my farm, there was not a single bit of activity on that farm until the following April, when the corn planter went in. And you see all what we got off of the field across the road because of this cover crop activity. Which is a really neat, I think, use of the resources. Of course, this is a year especially where the wonderful, my technical term, the pigweed, Palmer amaranth, is very present up in north central Kansas. And people have asked about that because, you know, it is worth especially if you're going to follow a cover crop after wheat. You know, there's, you have to watch your herbicide program on your wheat because a lot of the herbicides have a residual effect, will impact the crops the next year. And so, so you can't, you have to use a different herbicide program on that wheat. And I can't say that there were any additional, we had any additional weed pressure or any less weed pressure. I, you know, I never went out and did an official count. That's just pretty much a, it's very unofficial survey there. So, so no impacts on, on weeds on either side of that. But, you know, I do know and I've heard of people looking at cover crop mixes specifically for weed suppression. That just wasn't really the goal of this. And so, that's kind of, I think that's the last slide I had, I had there. Like I said, was a, this was a great, we appreciated the opportunity for the Sarah Grant to kind of get our foot in the door, to pay for a little bit of the seeding costs and that. And, and we're going to continue to use them. We had the chance to have, have a field day with about 75 people on site the day we were swathing the cover crop. And then I've just had the opportunity throughout my travels to give this presentation several times, sit down with different producer groups. So it's been, it's been a neat learning experience and look forward to looking some more into it. So the question was, obviously we fed the steers seven pounds of, of corn gluten per day. And like any typical economist here, I will just give you a quick calculation off of what that was. So, 1.035 times 40 bucks a ton. I would say about 14 cents, 14 cents of that would be. So that is, that's not even hardly 25% of that. So, that was given corn gluten prices then, which I'm sure, I know they've went down since there. So, about 14 cents of that. So, that's just part of our operation. I do give my grandfather and my dad some grief. I ask them if they're in the catering business or in the cattle feeding business because they do, we do tend to have some good forage and some good products like that in north central Kansas. But they're a firm believer in some supplemental feed. And it's, I know it's not necessary, but I, I know where to pick my battles. And I'm not going to win that one. And the question was really quantifying that value of the soil health. And if I could think of a way, especially in a one year timeframe like this, to put on some specific value, I would have, I would have included it. I love crunching numbers and, and, and things like that. And so, we're just kind of looking long term, seeing what those, you know, we, we grid and have, you know, you know, utilize precision ag and that and then have, do regular soil samples. So, I'm just keeping track of these fields that have this, have additional, have a cover crop rotation worked into that to see, to see where we're at there. I think a lot of the, I think a lot of the values are that, you know, especially in, in all systems, because even the cattle didn't, the cattle didn't capture all of those turnips and radishes. But that was, you go out there in the, you know, the next spring. And that's something, another question I get, I had a pretty harsh winter that year, didn't have any problems with regrowth. It just all naturally winter killed everything, everything I did. But you go out there in the spring when it was heating up and it, it smells pretty strong out there. It smells like cattle taken off of turnips. If you've ever had the joy of experiencing that smell. And that's what it smelled with no cattle out there. And then, let alone the, the, the wonderful nutrients the cattle were spreading throughout there. There's definitely, there's definitely a value to that. And even if it would come up to, you know, 10% of your overall nutritional or, you know, soil, soil requirements through there, it would be, it would be pretty significant. But verdict's still out. I wish I could put a number that this is how much fertilizer was saved through that. And it's just not that, not that simple of a, I can't give you an answer. I feel comfortable enough on that, so. So. So. So. So. So. So. So. So. So. So. So. So. So.