Increased Crop Yield in University Trials
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-jxof52LyOk
Pets & Animals
 Would an increase in crop yield be of interest to you? Today I'm going to share the exciting interim results from the soil amendment trials taking place at the University of Queensland St Lucia where Natrium Cal S has proved to increase plant dry shoot biomass. Hi I'm Shannon Goldwyn from Ag Solutions. I'm so glad you are here today to learn about the fantastic results we have received from the interim scientific report from our ongoing research with the University of Queensland. Let's start with the details. Dr. Bernard Weir from the School of Agriculture and Food Sciences at the University of Queensland St Lucia and his colleagues have been investigating the effect of Natrium Cal S on soil, chemical, physical and biological properties. While the final report has yet to be delivered, early phases of the replicated trial work have confirmed that Natrium can assist soil physical properties and boost plant growth while adding value to an important asset, your soil. Now for the exciting stuff, especially for anyone who is involved in dry land farming. In replicated glass house trials, plants grown in soil treated with Natrium Cal S yielded an increase of over 26% in dry shoot biomass as compared to the control group that had no Natrium Cal S yielded an increase in dry soil. Now this extra growth could be of great commercial significance by enhancing the returns for farmers and graziers that rely on such production for their livelihood. An even more pronounced difference was evident under the soil with Natrium Cal S treatment recording an increase of over 39% in dry root biomass in comparison to the control soil. Now what is so great about this result is that increased root growth has many significant benefits not only for the current plant but also for ongoing soil health. So in other words, it's a gift that keeps on giving. So what does this mean for primary producers? Well these results indicate that it is possible not only to get a return on investment from applying Natrium in short-term production but you can be adding long-term value to your asset within the soil. If you would like more information on Natrium in or would like to book a soil test, please visit agsolutions.com.au and don't forget to ask at your preferred rural store for Ag Solutions Natrium in range. Ag Solutions, helping Australia grow. Hello muitoAM & don't forget to online half. Pastor