Grownetics Farm Management Software Platform with Vincent Harkiewicz
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-P7HhjOAV0w
Science & Technology
 Hello, and thank you all for joining us today for Agritexture's Travel-Free Digital Conference Series. My name is Javi Damidi Abraham, and my guest today is Vincent Harkowitz from GrowNetix. He's the co-founder and CEO of a company that has developed a software platform that integrates data from all kinds of different hardware components of vertical farms and greenhouses. Today, Vincent is joining us to tell us a little bit about himself, his company, and how his company's solution can help farmers, both in greenhouses, vertical farms, and other indoor farms, to optimize their production. Vincent, would you like to talk a bit about your company and what you guys do? Yeah, thanks for the introduction. So my backgrounds before GrowNetix was in indoor cultivation, as well as in industrial design and manufacturing. I spent about six years in China before starting GrowNetix, launching an industrial design and manufacturing business, actually, which ended up becoming the founding inspiration for GrowNetix. During my time in China, I had experienced a great deal of pollution in the air, in the food, in the water, and also serious challenges with supply chain logistics with a city of 21 million people, I think now over 23 million people, where literally there's a three-day reserve for that entire city. Now, it's facts like this that really opened my eyes to where the future agriculture is going, how we need to really change some of these old, antiquated supply chains with new, some more sophisticated, distributed models, where we have vertical farms and urban farms on rooftops, you know, much of what, of course, what agriculture is pushing. It's definitely an absolute need. But when I went to look at, if I were to start a business in this industry for myself, I went to look at, you know, what it would take, I realized there were just no tools to make it easy to spin up an indoor farming business. You know, I think around the same time, agriculture, maybe a similar founding story where there just aren't very many best practices. There aren't very many, there isn't a very good understanding of what's possible with systems that are out there. And so that was kind of the genesis for Grownetics. And we didn't want to just, from my experience in China, we didn't want to just be another, you know, sensor manufacturer. We wanted to help hardware manufacturers and support all these fantastic technologies in the data they're collecting and giving it context. So kind of the light bulb went off when I realized we don't actually, as an agrarian species, we don't actually have a central database on how to grow every plant best. It just doesn't exist after millennia of growing plants. And that's kind of mind blowing. Then realizing that we have the off the shelf technology and capabilities to build this. But yet, a whole business needs to be also matured and brought up at the same time. So that's kind of where we find ourselves today. Grownetics was started about five years ago, and really built on this premise of, look, we know that in indoor agriculture and controlled environment growing, anywhere you're controlling anything, you're going to have sensors. And when you have sensors, you have a lot of data. And that data can either sit completely unused, or you can link it to yield outcomes and immediately get it just a massive amount of value out of that data. And so we set out to build a farm management platform that really linked the what we think are the three legs of the stool that you need to understand for growing plants. And that is environment around the plant itself, the canopy and the root zone, the feeds around what's being fed to the plant at what times and what irrigation schedules. And then thirdly, the tasks and the actions that are being done to that plant. So with those three things, we can really, really come to a deep understanding of what's leading to certain yield outcomes. And so that's what we built as a platform to understand that. And we took an open approach. And so I'm going to go ahead and pull up the presentation now and share my screen here. So that would be great visual aid as I go through. Thank you. So in CEA, we have a bunch of challenges. But in that old premise of the obstacle is the way, those are also opportunities. So in this new industry, there's very few best practices. So most farms are still managed with pen and paper, or a handful of inconsistent tools. But this is an opportunity for companies who are willing to invest in ongoing R&D that are willing to invest in understanding their business processes and improving those. Those are the ones who are going to develop proprietary strategies to develop, deliver very efficient, very low cost produce, and really move this industry forward. The second aspect and challenge of this industry is, it has kind of a Wright Brothers kind of new era of flight kind of feeling to it, where every new smart farming or indoor farming company is really still trying to pilot whether their theory is going to work. Because again, this is so new. And so really, I just want to emphasize and I will emphasize over and over again, just how early we are in indoor farming in controlled environment agriculture. And so in that same sense, if all this innovation is happening in completely different systems, if we as a collective community want to understand what's really leading to the most nutritious and the most efficient way to grow produce, to grow medicine, we have to be sharing that data in order to move forward quickly. And that leads me to winners compete together, which is that thankfully in this industry, the leaders are competing together. They are interested in sharing best practices. They are very much interested in working together to build a new industry and support farmers and cultivators and people and entrepreneurs who want to get involved in getting involved. It's a fantastic industry to be in, one where the community is really here to support each other. And there are some, unfortunately, groups that I do come across every now and again, which really truly believe they are the bee's knees and they want to stick their head in the sand. They think they got the best everything. And often it's those groups who end up, climbing the Canadian stock market and then tanking. But lastly, I'll say that because this industry is built on industrial controls and automation, it's a digital native, right? And with that comes big data. So in this new field of control environment ag, if you're not taking advantage of that data, you're missing a huge opportunity. So that takes me to making decisions with data, because that's what we want to be doing. If you're not making those continuous improvement decisions as a cultivator, as a grower with data and keeping that beginner mindset to always be learning, then it's really just based on assumptions. And that's not science and that's not going to lead to any real repetitive results, right? And so it's my goal in this presentation to share with the audience that even without Grownetics, this can be done manually, right? And some of the best cultivators, they are forced to do this manually and have been forced to do this manually because they will not accept anything less than precision, right? And so some aspects, some tools that need to be implemented in any controlled environment Grow are absolutely environmental sensors and crop sensors, greenhouse environmental control systems, irrigation and fertigation systems, and then task management, workflow automation and mechanical automation tools, and then different software tools to give that data context like ERP tools or compliance tools. And you begin to understand just with just these five elements, how complicated it can quickly become to run an indoor or a greenhouse or a CEA farming business. Because you have all these opportunities that you can chase down in terms of efficiency gains or in terms of yield improvements or quality improvements. But it's, there's also so many places that need to be working before you can even begin to pursue those improvements. And so actually what we find in the reality of the market today is, it's so new that even with this data, it's only the talented cultivators who have the experience who are able to take advantage of it. And for the most part, new farming businesses are really struggling to just get into a rhythm of generating cash flow. Again, because the lack of measuring. And so really, I want to share during the course of this presentation, just how many tools and options there are. And at the end, we'll have some links and some resources of different tools that are not only fantastic professional quality tools, but actually open source and with a little elbow grease and self-learning can actually be deployed for free at your farm. So I mentioned continuous improvement, and that's the whole key here. Because there are not best practices in this industry, every site and every system is a little different. And indoor cultivators know, if you put a plant, the same plant in the same system in two different buildings, it will grow differently because of the unique aspects of just the building it's in. You have the same feed system, you think the same environmental set points, and we just understand there's so many different levers that we are just beginning to scratch the surface of that really understanding this continuous improvement is key. And so understanding these different elements of knowledge work, machine work, biosecurity, hygiene, and traceability, right? These are all different elements of work that we need to be understanding and trying to continuously improve. And in terms of the equipment and sensors that are on the market that are available to every single cultivator in the world are your basic environmental sensors, your temperature, humidity, relative humidity, your CO2, and your PAR, which is the amount of light the plant can actually use. And of course, we also want to have a deep understanding when we're growing in controlled environments of vapor pressure deficit or VPD, which is a better understanding of how the plant is able to move moisture from its leaf surface. And that's really only possible through your temperature and relative humidity monitoring, right? And so if we're not understanding those levers, we're not really doing controlled environment agriculture, we're guessing. And then must-haves, of course, also soil moisture, understanding how our plants are eating and drinking in the environment. Nutrient EC, that's electrical conductivity of the salts contents of what you're feeding, the pH, the acidity essentially of what you're feeding the plants, dissolved oxygen and temperature. And any any professional or even prosumer hobbyist is going to be using these tools. Even your STEM classrooms with their hydroponic systems will be checking these with manual probes. So this is not really any surprise to have it on the list here. But just to mention that this is the data, the bare minimum that should be being collected and ideally in a real-time basis and automatically linked to every plant. And then the nice to haves, if we're doing some breeding work, if we're doing really, if you're trying to continuously improve, you're going to want to understand how to improve your nutrient regimens. So you're going to want to have NPK sensors, magnesium, calcium, understanding of really what are the macro and micronutrient minerals going into these plants that are leading to these yield outcomes, runoff sensors that help us understand what the plants are eating and drinking in real time, and changing the acidity content of the nutrient solution, and then soil EC, pH and temp, so we can really get in the nitty-gritty of what that root zone environment is. And that's where you start to get award-winning harvests. And that's where the champions, that's what they're doing. They're really getting to that level of precision. And then in many types of agriculture, post-harvest is even more crucial, because all of that investment in work and money and energy and coal that's gone into growing these plants in a controlled environment, if they're not stored, the plants aren't stored ideally in an ideal environment or cured in the case of cannabis and hemp properly in the post-harvest environment, then all that time and money is for nothing. And the quality that that grower has put into that harvest is for nothing because it doesn't reach the customer. And so water activity is another monitoring tool that we like to push water activity sensors. It's kind of like VPD, but it's in the the plant itself and understanding the plant's ability to what its real water content is. And so we can do understand it's not going to get contamination if we understand we can keep the water activity of the plant at the right level. And now of course the goal is to then take that data and correlate it to every plant and batch. And that you know the ability of a indoor cultivator to do that is really going to be dependent on their experience and capabilities and time and staff. And so while this is definitely a nice goal to have, it's not mandatory to run a farm, right? But to try to get to, this is a great place to try to get to, to be able to understand not just the macro climate. So generally what my greenhouse environment is, but really what are my micro climates in my indoor room or in my greenhouse or in my vertical farm? If that's vertical, then you're going to be wanting to look at different tiers in 3D, right? Absolutely. Yeah. And then same with the root biome, same with the feed. And then we get into IPM because this is something crucial to doing high quality cultivation indoors in an artificial environment. And then we're going to be able to do high quality cultivation. And then we're going to be able to be able to do high quality cultivation. And then we're going to be able to do high quality cultivation in the environment, which is that we're growing primarily not in a permaculture, you know, where it's ripe for vectors of infection and pests because it's not probiotic and in nature in most cultivations. Now that's, there's a lot of innovation happening there. And that's where we like to see like innovation, because actually it's those probiotic techniques, those organic indoor techniques, which are the most exciting because you get highly nutritious food in the, from the controlled environment. Instead of, unfortunately, you know, hydroponic food has gotten a little bit of a bad rap over the years because it's, unfortunately, some companies are just trying, you know, being like your, your bottom of the barrel produce, as long as it's big and red and shiny, even if it has no nutritional value, you know, it moves off the shelves. So again, I mean, you're always fighting this, this kind of these values here of being able to scale cheaply, but then trying to maintain that quality. And then nutrient reports and labor reports, of course, we want to understand our costs properly in how they're relating to what we're growing so that we can optimize for that. A lot of people don't understand how their labor is affecting their yields. And they'd like to throw people at a problem. And that's just never the solution. We, you always have to get the first principles to understand like how, why, where can we remove people from going into the grow rooms? Because that's typically the vector for infection and disease. Absolutely. And if you have all this data in one place, then operators don't really need to go in the, in the grow room to get that data. So I think the, the nature of the, the relationship between the hardware and the centralized software platform lends itself nicely to being able to remove those vectors from the growth space, which naturally improves integrated pest management by itself. You got it. You, you a hundred percent got it. And it's that really that understanding this integrated approach, right. And that you can, it's only then that you can really start to improve. But what I was saying earlier is in this industry, even just getting to that is a win, right. Getting to an integrated business approach, getting your systems dialed in to a fully integrated, almost like a self-driving farm, right. Really dialing it in. So it's moving like clockwork. That's should be step one for every indoor and greenhouse farm out there. And then after that, that's going to be a little bit more, you know, and then you can start to really step on the gas, and really know where to apply your extra capital from those efficiency gains. And it's really going to be dependent on every business where that is. And so you're also mentioning, you know, again, that task management element, and that brings us to this page here, which is that it's people growing plants still, while there are companies like Iron Ox and several others who are trying plenty and are trying to really highly, highly automate. That's not a reality for most indoor cultivators yet. And so we still need people that we want highly qualified, highly skilled people to be doing this work so that we don't have to rely on on just throwing mass labor at problems, right. So it's still important that we think when we're doing controlled environment, urban farming, that we're being efficient with our plant logistics, how we're moving our plants and all that, even if we don't have robots. And so that's just because of vectors of disease and infection. You just want to minim, constantly be minimizing, minimizing, minimizing. And then especially in today's era, you know, we see people, our customers being able to operate facilities with very, very few personnel because of, as you mentioned, that remote monitoring capability where they have a literal digital twin of their real world environments in 3D. So they can understand, you know, that they feel comfortable taking a vacation or comfortable letting their farm operate, you know, and having the assistant run things for a little while because they have that visibility. Absolutely. So I didn't share some of these with you, but I want, I thought it was important that we talk about some real world case studies so that viewers can see really what's possible. Okay. Because Grownetics has been involved in some of the most advanced indoor farming projects in North America and are just getting involved in more and more. And we are entirely built on open innovation and open source. Okay. Case study one was a project in Northern California where we designed and built a control system and monitoring platform for this unique hybrid lighting system that two PhD researchers at Flourish Farms had wanted to test and to measure the capabilities of. So they came up with this fantastic model and this is something that works. We have the data. We know that we can grow plants with solar tubes and LEDs at 40% greater efficiency than LED alone, 90% greater efficiency than higher high intensity discharge lighting. Now, scaling this model is, you know, the challenge that everyone's faced with right now, but we have the data to show that you don't have to turn your HVAC systems on with this, with a platform like this. You aren't air conditioning the sun like in a greenhouse, but you get to take advantage of full spectrum light and also the way the sun moves across the sky, getting nice light penetration into your canopy. And so just a fascinating project, all open source innovation built into that. Case study two is Dalwini Farms in Colorado. So this is a, the vision of one of our early customers, Travis Howard and his partner Reed Cannabis, Reed Cannabis. I'll check myself on that one. But Travis and Reed really set themselves out to build a state of the art research facility. And they did it. This is the most impressive indoor cultivation facility with very, very tight controls at the time that it was built. They are now controlling their facility within a degree of each of these rooms and within easily 2% RH because of years of dialing in these rooms with the Grownetics platform running the facility. So, and the beautiful looking gentleman you see in this photo, Cody runs the grow there and he'll walk around. And if he gets an alert on a microclimate being out of an ideal condition, you can go in there and move a fan. And literally that is, that's precision, right? Understanding that level of microclimate and being able to adjust accordingly within the rooms. So just a very, very impressive, and they're the ones running, you know, a very large facility with incredibly minimal staff because of their remote location in the mountains by Telluride. Wow. That's an incredibly impressive level of specificity they're able to get with the RH and temperature. Yeah. It's, it's, again, it took a very rigorous startup and commissioning process, right? And that's something that, again, a lot of smart farming companies, indoor farming companies, don't take into account. You're going to have, no matter what, you have the best systems in the world. If you don't take into account that your specific site location is going to be different to everybody else's and that you need to go through a very rigorous startup and commissioning process to ensure those systems are performing to their spec, it'll never perform to what you bought. And so, again, a great case study to showcase just what's possible when you really focus on that continuous improvement. Very interesting. And then just another greenhouse, hybrid greenhouse or controlled environment greenhouse project to go over, which is a hemp cultivation, a hemp research facility, Crops for Health in here in Denver, Colorado. So they're a vertically integrated CBD nutraceutical company. And so, again, a fantastic example of a very experienced businessman who started this business with a focus very, very heavily on quality and research. And so it was a no brainer that from day one, all this, all this microclimate and environmental and crop data must be collected to understand what's leading to these outcomes. They have geneticists on staff, they're doing breeding programs. Again, just a phenomenal model of what best practices look like and taking advantage of off the shelf technology in order to make sure those decisions and that continuous improvement is done based on data and not based on conjecture. So I just wanted to make sure I got those case studies in there because sometimes, you know, in these presentations, we can talk about all these great ideas and, you know, pie in the sky notions, but none of this is pie in the sky whatsoever. Grownetics is already helping some of the most sophisticated operators now getting into the 100, 200 plus thousand square feet controlled environment cultivation facilities. And that's because we've been doing it for so long and actually executing and operating indoor facilities with this platform. Now, we're definitely not going to recommend anybody go out and build a commercial facility with a Raspberry Pi, but I do want to show that you could actually do a smaller scale one for sure for your monitoring platform 100%. You know, that would be a good application for that, but you know, definitely not once you get over 10, 20,000 square feet. So some of these resources and tools here, I want to make sure I got out. So in ERP, ERP is one of the most crucial things missing in this industry, understanding all the aspects of costing from every element of the operation. And so some open source ERPs, I think everybody should look at are ERP Next and Odoo ERP. ERP Next being the more affordable of the two. And then for inventory tracking and barcoding, every business needs this, whether you're tracking plants or test samples. And so Snipe IT is a fantastic resource to manage and create your own database to track all that. And then GroNetix, I have to of course mention because we are the world's only open source indoor smart farming operating platform. And then on the sensing and automation tools side, I would be remiss if I didn't give credit to Arduino and Raspberry Pi who have really pioneered open hardware and open sensing to the masses. But there are other projects for industrial controls like OpenSkeda. And then prosumer home automation projects like OpenHAB and Home Assistant will actually do what most commercial automation, like prosumer commercial automation products do, as in turning things on and off on a schedule or based on a sensor input. That's all built into these tools. If you're looking for somebody to help you build some electronics or to buy some open source electronics, definitely check out Tindy. It's an open source electronics marketplace of makers. And then SparkFun and Adafruit are some of the big names providing some of this educational tools out there and open source hardware. And then I want to shout out Libra CEA, which is a friend of Granetics, our friend Cameron, who's working on an open source CEA hardware system. So more to come on that in the coming months and we'll be helping to announce and launch some of those initiatives through Granetics. And then I want to make sure I touch on these community links too. So Open Innovation in Agriculture isn't just for indoor and greenhouse farming, it's for all agriculture. And so I encourage everybody to check out the Gathering for Open Ag Tech. It's a forum with a bunch of people around the world, universities all participating in open innovation around agriculture. Farmhack.org is a related site where some of these projects live. And then I want to also encourage everyone and invite everybody to join our Open CEA forum. So this is a new forum we started at Grownetics with the focus on open innovation and controlled environment growing or indoor growing. And then we also have a community chat that everyone's welcome to jump in and join. And then the last two things I want to share are a community open source list of great tools and resources. And that's that GitHub awesome self-hosted list. And that's just anybody in the world contributing great open source self-hosted projects that you could install on your own home computer or server for free if you have the know-how. And then shout out to my partner Nick Busey's personal project, HomeLab OS, which also helps make it very easy to deploy a lot of these technologies with just within a couple minutes. So yeah, that's the presentation. And yeah, let's go into the Q&A. Absolutely. Thank you very much. That was extremely interesting. And just an absolutely wonderful and thorough overview of what you guys do at Grownetics. I do have a few questions about the way you guys operate. Kind of what market sectors do you guys target with your product? And if you were to have an ideal client, what would that client be like? So we target primarily the hemp cannabis and research industries. So hemp and cannabis being that they're funding the majority of indoor agriculture and controlled environment growing innovation right now. There's just no questioning that's where the most growth is coming in and indoor and controlled environment growing is from cannabis and hemp markets. So that's in a big bucket. That would be the primary one. And then research institutions. So universities or private research groups looking to do some more sophisticated and efficient crop analytics. Very interesting. What about food growers? Do you guys have any food growers in your portfolio? Not yet. Although I'm very excited to start to get Grownetics ready for different niches. So of course, one of the reasons that we're so heavy on open source is that we want to make it easy for anybody to adapt this technology for other types of cultivation methods and different crops. So right now, this is very much designed around a tray-based or pot-based process. So it could easily work for somebody who's working in trays and pots already for like cut flowers or something like that, or perhaps ornamentals and things like that. But when it comes to food with, for example, berries or tomatoes, there's a whole different workflow around growing these crops. Lettuce, even lettuce. There's a whole different workflow around growing these plants with lower requirements than we necessarily have in hemp and cannabis or pharmaceutical plant production, where there's just almost an absurd amount of compliance required to grow these plants. And so while we're really excited for the software and technology to be appropriated for those different crops, we're not quite there yet. So again, the open source initiative is really our hope to accelerate that. Very interesting. And I think you answered part of my next question, which is, what does the future of your product development look like? Yeah, so that's a great question. And thanks for asking it because it just so happens that this quarter, we're going to be launching a next generation of the GrowNetix. Oh, wow. Very exciting. So we're launching a entirely wireless and battery powered option. The way that GrowNetix is deployed today is very much to be built in place for new builds. So if we're going to be driving controls, we want them hardwired in place and to really have reliable connections. But unfortunately, that excludes a majority of the existing marketplace because 95% are not new builds. So we hope this new wireless battery powered system will really help give access to GrowNetix to every cultivator. And then we're also deploying a stem version, a stem kit on a Raspberry Pi. So to showcase that even from a small hobbyist or an education or a school with a Raspberry Pi and a few sensors can use GrowNetix and do crop analytics and start contributing data to our open plant database, which is that open database to collect all this data for every crop worldwide. So all you need is a Raspberry Pi and a few sensors and start using GrowNetix. And that would be, you know, essentially helping people to do it for free on their own in a DIY kind of way. So we're trying to really target these two massive elements of the market that we feel are not being addressed well, which are, you know, the smaller startup cultivators as well as educators, teachers. A lot of this grow technology is very expensive and hard to get access to for teachers and universities ask us all the time. Like, how do our researchers not have access to tools like this? Well, they haven't existed before. I see. Very cool. And I'm sure that's going to help much more of the market access the platform and be enabled by the, you know, the data analytics that you guys provide your existing clients. That's really, really interesting. And I think something that's going to benefit the industry tremendously as you guys move forward with your product development and those products, you know, enter the marketplace. So thank you, Vincent. This was a fantastic session for our digital conference. We really appreciate you joining us today. You're a fantastic guest with a really interesting product and software service. And we hope to see more farms adopted in the near future and enable themselves to take advantage of that data component. So once again, for our audience, my guest is Vincent Harkowitz from Grunetics. And Vincent, would you have some closing statements you'd like to say to our audience? Yeah, first, I'd just like to say I've been incredibly impressed with how quickly that agriculture put this on. And it is really fulfilling a huge need in this industry. I myself am getting a lot out of the presentations as well. So kudos to you and your team and to everybody working hard over there. And then I wanted to just mention that there's going to be a lot of changes in how people think about food and already have been a lot of changes in how people think about food after this COVID pandemic has swept across the world. And I know that CSAs, demand at CSAs are going through the roof, that local farming and local agriculture and really the values of society seem to be falling more in line with our necessities. And that's very encouraging. But farmers are also unfortunately killing themselves at near double the rate of veterans. That's this unfortunate statistic that I learned earlier this year. And that means that the way that farm businesses get launched and get operated are very poorly supported by the community and by the institutions that are supposed to be supporting these farmers. And so, again, I just want to encourage everybody to really look at what they can do to help to improve the current state of the food supply chain, to support their local agricultural businesses, whether that's markets, delivery people or farmers themselves or restaurants, supporting local farmers. And it's just one of these bigger, much bigger challenges that we as a community need to face. And it just showcases a lot, a lot, a lot of the potholes or the gaps right now in the way that food is delivered. And so, unfortunately, I'm sorry to close it with that, but that's really what I try to focus on is how can we as a community really change these statistics and stop them becoming statistics and start moving towards really productive farming businesses that are well supported by the community. Thank you very much for those closing thoughts. I mean, it's incredibly heartbreaking, the statistic you mentioned. And we appreciate entrepreneurs like yourselves working to develop products and tools to enable this industry to produce better food and to create better lives for farmers. So, thank you very much for joining us today for your work in developing these necessary data management platforms. And our audience is equally grateful for the work you guys are doing. So, thank you very much, Vincent, for joining us today. And we look forward to seeing your products in the market very shortly. Thanks, Javid. Thanks a lot. Take care. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye.