The Best Haymaking Equipment for Small Farms
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-S4qrdDxpEE
Howto & Style
 Hey folks, welcome back to the farm. I'm going to kind of go over the equipment I use to bale hay for a small scale hay operation and most importantly, why do I even fool with it? So I'm going to start it with my equipment and this is the first thing you use is a hay cutter. This is a old sickle bar mower. It's a New Holland 451 belt drive. I've had this for years and I'll go over all the costs too. So this, I gave $450 for this several years ago. I've had it for about 12 years, I think. And the big thing about it is the belt drive. I started out with a pitman arm, a Ford 501 I think and it's slow, won't cut thick grass, thick hay, won't cut, hardly cut anything. So I mean you had to go in first gear. This thing right here I can go in fourth gear and it cuts really good and I ain't got no complaints at all with it. We just, I just keep it greased. These knives I've had them for, I'm thinking maybe four or five years and I'm gonna have to replace them next year. I think I'll get one more year out of them. But this is a fine piece of equipment for $450 to get you in the hay cutting business. There's all kinds of different kinds of cutters you can buy and, but this is one that's kind of cheapest at the time. And of course, you know, they got new disc mowers, they got drum mowers, they got mowers with conditioners and all that, but you know, you're getting a lot more money than this. $450 to lay your hay down. That's what they used, you know, in the seventies and sixties. And I think this is a 70 something model. So, uh, it's been real good for me and I would highly recommend one of these. Uh, let's move on after we cut it, you know, it lays there and dries for a few days and, uh, then we rake it up in windrows. So let's look at the rake I use. So this is a rake I'm using currently. This is a Massey Ferguson 35 and I really love this rake and this type rake. I've also got a new Holland 256 and, uh, uh, when we did the, we used to do 50 something makers and round bales and now I would pull this, my son would pull the new Holland or vice versa. This is, I like this a lot better. It's a lot heavier. Uh, you get your momentum going, build up and it'll wreck hay like crazy. Uh, new Holland tends to, to me, skip a little bit. So you're getting some heavy hay and it'll skip. But this thing is awesome. Uh, this is the second Massey Ferguson 35 I've owned. Uh, when I first got, you know, 30 or 25 years ago, I had one, sold it. Thinking the new Holland was better. Uh, so I, a guy I worked with was selling this one. And so I bought it and, uh, I gave $500 for this. And I'm going to do some work on this too. Obviously everything I need is, I need pressure washing painting. But I don't have an equipment shed right now. So everything stays outside. So one of my goals this winter is to build an equipment shed. And I got to replace some of the rake teeth. I got to do that. And, uh, wash it and we'll paint it. And, uh, everything else is good now. My son lost a little drive shaft here. There's a shaft that goes from here to there and makes both wheels turn. This is a ground drive. So actually the wheels turn, uh, that chain and it turns the PTO and it goes into the gear box. So as long as you're moving, it's turning and you can turn it off right there if you need to. But we make a sharp turn sometimes, uh, or a wide turn. That's why you need both wheels pulling. But we lost it somewhere in some hay field and, uh, it's not the end of the world. We still use it. So this is a really good option, $500. So I'm up to $950 right now. We got it cut. We got it laying on the ground and we got it raked into windrows. So now what we do? Well, now we bail. So let's go over and look at the bailer I use. So this is my bailer. Uh, this is a third bailer I've owned. This is a John Deere 24T. I believe it's a 61 or two model. I need to verify that with the serial number. Uh, you still get parts for it, believe it or not. Cause I broke a, uh, one of the knotters and I went to my John Deere dealer and he got it like the next day. I mean, I mean, it's pricey, but you know, at least you still get parts for them. But this does really good. Uh, got no complaints with this bailer. I haven't done really much to it except for that. I keep it oil. I keep it greased and it'll go. Uh, don't take a whole lot of horsepower. Now I'll pull it with my 55 horse John Deere. And, uh, I mean, you really don't even know it's back there. Uh, I should have tried it with my, uh, TYM 48 horse. Pulled this with my Ford Jubilee, which I think is a 30 something horse and it pulled it fine. And there's no problems. So, uh, but I, it's a lot easier with my John Deere. John Deere you don't even know it's back there, but this is a square bailer. Cause you know, you've got round bailers too. And I've got one of those, but I won't sell it. I don't use it anymore, but you know, it picks it up in the chamber or in the, uh, I guess that is the chamber. It throws it into the bailing chamber and it's got a big ram right here's the ram. And you can see it, it goes back and forth and then it packs that hay in there. Like this, this goes back and forth. And, uh, there's your feed arm. That's what throws your hay, your hay into the bail chamber. And then you got all your strings here. And when it gets to, you set your bail length with this device right here, you move this up and down. So this is really worn. It's not real accurate. So I don't get a real consistent length of bail. And then, but when it hits this right here and it comes back up and right here's your knotters. It'll tie a knot. Let me see if I can find one. Right here's a good knot. It's really a, uh, piece of engineering marvel. If you ask me, if you sit there and watch it, it's, uh, pretty amazing. I've got no problems with this. Now I had a new Holland 68 before this one. And, uh, it would banana bail a lot of the bails. This right here, I've never had any problems. You can set it up, go with it. Once it starts going, you don't have any problems. So I would highly recommend this for an old bailer, 24T. I think they're all about the same 36 or the 33, let's say 336 model. I think it's the next one. Basically the same thing. It's just a little bit bigger pickup, a little faster stroke. So when you move up into that, the one before this, the 14T was a little slower. This is a 24T. So when you move on up, it gets a little faster, but I might get that much to go. So that's why I just keep this as long as it works. So you might say, uh, by the way, I gave $750 for my baler. So I've got what? Uh, $450, $5, $950, $1,700 in my equipment. Not counting my tractor, which I got to have anyway. And, uh, I've had this for, gosh, how long have I had all this stuff? I don't know, 10 years. Let's just take the last three years. If I do a hundred bales, I want a hundred bales this year, $7 a bale. That's $700 that would cost me. So if I just over three years, that's $2,100. So I'm saving money by doing it myself. And yeah, it's a little bit harder work and, but you know what you're getting. Uh, I don't use herbicides. I don't use any kind of, uh, chemical fertilizer on my hay field. All I do is run my chickens through there, my sheep through there. They fertilize it, they weed it. Now it, you know, it's not perfect horse hay, you know, $35 a bale hay, but it's really pretty good hay. And, uh, that's the reason I do that because we feed it to our milk goats. Well, I don't want the herbicide. You know, there's a thing going around now called persistent herbicide that passes through the animal into, you know, their manure and their byproducts. So I don't have to worry about none of that. I don't want none of that in my body. It's just like now people's buying the compost with the horse manure or cow manure and it's killing their vegetable plants. So that's something to check into. And I might do a whole video on that, but I ain't got that problem. I ain't got to worry about that. Even the, when I clean out the barn, put it in my mulch pile or my compost pile, don't have to worry about it. So that's the main reason I control what my animals eat, which in turn, what we eat. So I think that's very important. I ain't got to worry about no herbicide coming through, no roundup, nothing of that stuff. It's all clear. So that's the main reason I do it. Cause I think I'm saving money, which I know I'm saving money and I know what's going into my animals feed. So, and I mean, it's a little bit of hard work. It's a family affair. You can watch our videos and see us all alone. You can get, uh, you know, two, three people can do it. And it's not that big a deal. So, uh, I think it's worth the effort and it's worth keeping this equipment going. You know, over 10 years, I mean, I've got, if you think about it, I mean, what? $770 a year over 10 years is what it's cost me. It's certainly saved me more than that. I mean, I don't even, I can't even calculate. I should sit down and calculate exactly. Cause last year I got like 150 bales. So, uh, this year I didn't cut as much cause I didn't need as much. So now I was going to sell it, but I decided against two is a little, I don't even get into that. Hey, I appreciate you watching. If you have any comments, leave a comment. I answer all comments. Send me an email. If I forget something kind of going at a fast pace. So, uh, just let me know if you want to know something or if I'm not saying something right, I'm pretty confident on this stuff. So, uh, just let me know. You can send me an email. Hey, support your local farmer. Give me some thumbs up, hit the subscribe button. We'll see you down in the farm next video. Famous!!! So, yes. No, no. Not talking about that. So now, if you guys shared something, talk about me about it. What's next is your report? Work to 잘 listening in? Yeah. Now you can see your navigating. You don't have to know youruju, or playing you nenhum video. I didn't hear your video communally had. There it goes out. So, there was a emotion. The people you can see something who we try to set up. You can see whoehive injuries are my suitcase. You can see that整 any sustainability changes começ.