Farm Animal Sounds Song B1218 | Animal Song Nursery Rhymes For Kids | Little Bunny Learns
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-sTezl78Z04
People & Blogs
 Yohoi Yohoi Yohoi Yohoi Yohoi Yohoi The chicken on the farm says, Nay, nay, nay. The chicken on the farm says, Cluck, cluck, cluck. The dog on the farm says, Woof, woof, woof. The cat on the farm says, Meow, meow, meow. Nay, cluck, woof, meow. Not familiar farm animals. The goat on the farm says, Ma, ma, ma. The goose on the farm says, Honk, honk, honk. The turkey on the farm says, Cock-a-doodle-doo. Ma, haw, gobble. Cock-a-doodle-doo. The rabbit on the farm says, Thunk, thunk, thunk. The donkey on the farm says, Yee-haw, yee-haw. The bee on the farm says, Buzz, buzz, buzz. The mouse on the farm says, Squeak, squeak, squeak. Thunk, yee-haw, buzz, squeak. The pigeon on the farm says, Coo, coo, coo. The frog on the farm says, Ribbit, ribbit, ribbit. The lamb on the farm says, Ba, ba, ba. The cow on the farm says, Moo, moo, moo. Coo, ribbit, bah, moo. The owl on the farm says, Hoo, hoo, hoo. The crow on the farm says, Caw, caw, caw. The duckling on the farm says, Peep, peep, peep. The hen on the farm says, Cluck, cluck, cluck. Hoo, caw, peep, cluck. The peacock on the farm says, Scream, scream, scream. The llama on the farm says, Hum, hum, hum. The guinea pig on the farm says, Squeal, squeal, squeal. The turkey on the farm says, Gobble, gobble, gobble. Scream, hum, squeal, gobble. The pony on the farm says, Nay, nay, nay. The bull on the farm says, Snort, snort, snort. The chick on the farm says, Cheat, cheat, cheat. The dove on the farm says, Coo, coo, coo. Nay, snort, cheat, coo. Farm animals sing all day long. With moos and nays in their happy song. Hey! John K perish better than the food business has been here. Long time I think the man's in a family and mails. Way to play another one that gets... Talk sounds great. Long time? Youtube was the one we expect. It was horrible to be better. If you notice a horse gets no police as evidence. Do you see a house on the farm? sheets and blood pap DESIRA been an animal All feet with 250cómo. What's the thing to get? Always. Things have named dna. Tramp and evil appointed and immerPS