"The Shotgun Approach" - understanding and avoiding the biggest Advertising/Marketing mistake
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=09WesSeaSBM
Education
 Hey, you can't be everybody's friend. Marketing explained using everyday language. From LA to Europe, I've done creative consulting and lecturing. My name is Andrea Illuminati and this is what I've learned so far. The Shotgun approach, in essence, is when you try and be everybody's friend. That is, you try and develop marketing materials that appeal to as wide an audience as possible. The Shotgun approach takes its name from the way a shotgun operates. It sprays bullets onto a wide area, thus hitting a number of targets. The problem being that it doesn't hit any of them with enough force to actually make a difference. So, in marketing, the same thing happens. Trying to develop materials that everybody likes will get you the exact opposite result. You're going to get very bland communications that are not going to get you very far. So, what are the signs that, perhaps, you're using a Shotgun approach? Number one, you've probably selected a very wide target audience because you don't want to leave anybody out, any potential customers. Number two, you're probably using some very generic language and or images in your advertising, again, because you want to hit as many potential interests as possible. And number three, you're probably mentioning every single thing your product does in your advertising because you don't want to leave anybody out, you know, and God forbid, you might lose a potential sale. The problem with this approach, again, is that you're being so generic, trying to get as many people interested as possible. Unfortunately, you're not being specific enough to get anybody interested enough to actually take the next step. So, what should we be doing in order to get it right? A good place to begin is to study your product very carefully and then find an audience that is actually going to be interested in it. And I've done a video on this and I think it's called Message. Then, of course, you're going to study this audience very, very carefully because you really need to get to know them very well. You need to know how they speak, what they listen to, what they consider to be interesting or not. And again, I've got a video on this called Target. Next, you want to develop advertising or a communication message that actually speaks directly to these people using the words and the images that you've studied and that you know are going to resonate with them. Lastly, and perhaps the most difficult of all, you need to have the discipline to only talk about those things that you've discovered your audience cares about. So, omitting anything else that is only going to create confusion or just overburden the communication. If your product appeals to different target audiences, don't be afraid to develop different messages and different media plans in order to create campaigns that are going to be as effective as possible. Don't forget, you're not the only one talking to your target audience. So is your competition. So whoever talks to them more directly will most likely get their attention. Bottom line, although you might be tempted to go shotgun approach because it seems like the best way to get the most out of your advertising budget, the truth is that developing generic messages is probably going to get you the exact opposite. So the surest way to waste your advertising budget is by going shotgun. My name is Andrea Illuminati. I've been doing marketing since 1984. And this is what I've learned so far. I've learned so far, as long as hopefully the key is to get out of the water multiple things down type of housing for even longer companies is to sell. It's the same technology as quickly as possible. Also paying more dinheiro helps if you want to sisterism. I hope you Soviet-armed your Don-Mghetic, still find got a combination of ensuite komb 피부-satz 해줍. I don't even know why you're not in narrowг instance or if it's ice- Ley hochwater-z proclaiming any time to spielt that the formula. They could not be diagnosed with the pressure here. But again, let's see how you know today. Come back on Lee- Dai flood, so eventual remembering that TJ importantivot is the answer.