Crop Hour: Nutrient Management and General Agronomy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0CSK_YToHyk
Education
 Well good morning to SDSU's Crop Hour today. Thank you for all attending. I hope you're all keeping warm. Winter's finally sent in a little bit. Today we have Dr. David Karki. He's going to speak about some of the minor agronomy issues centered around oats. And I will be talking a little bit in the middle about nutrient recommendations for oats as well. Then at the end, again, we will have our open session for discussion centered around this topic or any topic that you have that we can help you with. At the end of the session, we will be sharing the QR code. There will only be one QR code for today's presentation. With that, we're nearing the 10 o'clock timeframe. We're getting a number of attendees coming into the room. Just want to kind of stall out here just a little bit, but I think we could get going. So with that, we're going to start out again, as I mentioned, Dr. David Karki. He's the agronomy field specialist in our Watertown Regional Center. David came to Extension in 2015, I believe it was. Maybe I've got that wrong, but has a lot of experience working in South Dakota with a couple of the breeding programs, the soybean breeding program and the spring wheat breeding program and worked with Dr. Peter Sexton at the Southeast Farm on some things as well. So we're glad to have David on our team. So David, are you ready? Yes, let me get my microphone and video started. And I'll start sharing my screen. Thank you, David. I hope everybody can see my screen. Looks good. All right. Good morning, everyone. And thank you for being here this morning for our third day of our OATS week. And thank you, Anthony, for a nice introduction. Actually, I came to STC Extension in 2014, so it's always longer than you think. I don't know if it's good or bad, but yeah, thank you for the introduction. Like Anthony said, more or less about first half of the presentation today would be a lot of small agronomy topics. And the second half of the presentation will try to focus more on nutrient management, more specific in nitrogen management and some plant growth regulator that we have tried in our trials. So, and these agronomy topics that I'm going to show you or I'm going to talk to you about is more of a, I would like to call this producer driven. These are the questions that I have gotten in the last few years about oat production in the States. So we decided to give, have this general agronomy, you know, talk on oats today. So here is the, here is the graph that I made from acre planted, harvested and, you know, and last since 2015. And if you see the, the, the orange line, that's lesser than, than the planted blue line. So where does the rest of the go? So here's the percentage of, percentage of plant, you know, harvested percent from the planted total acres that we have, that we have in our state. But if you see a graph, look at the graph, then I will. So 345,000 acres planted in 2015. 310 again planted in 2020, which is, you know, the two highest number of acres that we have planted in our state. And harvesting wise, 140 in 2020 and 145,000 acres in, in 2015. So what this shows us, shows us, this is we had the best production year in terms of area planted and harvested since 2015. And in 2020, last year, we ranked number one in total production of 10.7 million bushel oats were, grain oats were harvested last year. And even in the, the years in between 2015 and 2020, we've always ranked, you know, second, third, fourth, along with other major oats grown, you know, states we have in the, in the nation, you know, Minnesota, North Dakota, and Wisconsin. So we do, we are located in this prime old growing region in the, in the country to produce good oats and, and, and meet the demands that we have out there. So first thing I, when I think about agronomy, you know, and crop production is to get a good variety or the best variety out there. And I don't know how many of you were yesterday at Dr. Kleinjohn's presentation. I think he, he talked in detail about how the variety performance trials and variety performance program works in our state. But I found this very interesting, you know, this is a snapshot of something I found online. And this got published in 1914, more than a hundred years ago. And at that time also we had the, the culture or the tradition of trying different varieties or different strains or genotypes to compare among each other. And the title of this book says some varieties and strains of oats and their yields in South Dakota. And this is, this is published in 1914 by Manley Chaplin. So this is the numbers that we have from that book. And this is just for an, for an example. So you have an average of seven years average from 1906 to 1911. And this column right here, and these are the varieties tested in your, you know, far left. So you have average highest bushel for this particular variety was 40 bushel was the highest one in 17 was the lowest one. And now this is a snapshot of 2020 variety trial. The result that, you know, Dr. Klein and puts out on our, on our extension website. And then he even prints out the hard copies. So this is 2020. And something to note here is through your average, you know, you have the highest yielding variety Dion at 115 lowest yielding. Shelby at 76 bushel. The importance of variety selection is not choosing the best variety out there. You're already starting the wrong foot because you have the difference of 76 versus 115 to begin with. So this is just to show that there's big importance of growing any crop out there is to get a good variety or hybrid that's available, available out there for us. And another thing, you know, usually I get a question and oats, you know, is about planting time. When can we plant oats? You know, is it, is it, you know, is it okay to plant in a cooler soil versus other crops? And it's always, you know, oats is a cool season crop likes to thrive and grow all of this vegetative, you know, production when, when, when climate is cooler. And that means in our, in our situation in South Dakota earlier, the better. And in a minimum germination, I would like to stress this. There's a theoretical, you know, textbook number is 35. Fahrenheit. That means it could germinate in the soil, but also would do better in a slightly higher temperature of 40 plus. And like I said, planting early provides that cooler climate for maximum tiller and pinnacle, and panicle production. Production so that, you know, the plant can, you know, thrive better in a cooler climate and, and also avoid that heat in July, you know, which can hurt your yield and test weight and some of the green quality parameters. And, and seeding time. It's, it's a kind of, I would like to call time rather than date, because it's always a timeline range of time. That's good for, for any particular region. I would say something around late March to, you know, late April, you know, moving from South to North in South Dakota. So that brings another question is what's the seeding rate. And this is something that's I would call it, you know, old data. And we like to say 1.2 million, you know, live plants. In the field to get the optimum yield for not only oats, but other small grains as well. But not many recent studies have done been done around here in our environment, at least in our region, upper Northern, you know, Northern planes in, in, in recent times, maybe this 1.2 has gone to 1 million that we, you know, we can assume it probably has, but there's no data to, to support that argument. And, and depends on the seed size and a number of seeds per bushel. And, and growers have, I've talked to multiple growers who like to produce, you know, oats in, in, in annually, you know, every year, anywhere from two to three bushel. But one study I found that's done in North Dakota state at the Carrington resource center, you know, in 1998. And, and, and the, and they tried, you know, 0.75 million, 1 million and 1.25 million, you know, and, and, and the study did show that 1.25 did better in terms of, you know, grain yield compared to other lower, two other lower rates. However, so I'm going to move, uh, seating. I did, I just mentioned that we don't have many seating rate studies, but, uh, our old brewer, Dr. Melanie cafe, uh, did a seating rate study, um, not in our conventional production system, but, you know, organic production system. And it's just one year's data. Um, and, and that was tried in Madison, South Dakota. And three different varieties were, you know, tested in this trial, a saddle, sumo, and rings. And rates used was 1.2, 1.6, 1.9 and 2.3 million, uh, seeds per acre. So your lowest rate is the actual, you know, the standard 1.2 million was the lowest rate. And then others were the higher than normal that we want to call normal. Um, and, and it did not show any significant effects, statistically significant, you know, uh, effects on grain yield, but two of the three varieties did show significantly better test weight and ground coverage for higher seeding rates. So this is something to keep in mind that maybe there's a chance that we were going to increase the test weight by increasing seeding rate. Uh, but this is one year's data and this is an organic system. Uh, we can always try in the other, you know, uh, for keeping in mind that it can help us in our, your overall bud product. Uh, so this is something to keep in mind that you can keep in mind that we'll be able to keep in mind that a lot of our growing Maison, beneficial for weed management in organic production system. And a few other in-season management decisions that we have to make in any crop production, including oats. And I'm not going to go into detail in this particular slide because we had Paul Johnson, our weed program coordinator, on Tuesday, and Dr. Emanuel Bien-Vicama yesterday talked about diseases. But still, I would like to reiterate a couple of things. When planted early with optimal seeding rate, oat can be fairly competitive with weeds. And one thing to keep in mind is there are numerous broadleaf herbicides labeled for oats. But at the same time, we cannot compare everything that suits for wheat will also do OK with oats. That's not always true. So that's something to keep in mind. And there is another enemy of oat is wild oats, its own pedigree. And most effective way to control wild oats is to rotate the crops that allows controlling wild oats. And that's the only option we have because we don't have any selective herbicide that will only kill wild oats. And diseases. Crown rust is the most economically important disease or pathogen we have. And they're labeled fungicides. And those fungicides are applied at flag leaf stage. I think Emanuel talked about this yesterday also. Flag leaf is the critical time for applying fungicide for crown rust. And there's another one is barley yellow dwarf vector by cereal aphids, but not as economically damaging as crown rust. And we'll move to now harvesting. Usually, straight combine. But there are folks who like to do swathing also, especially when there's uneven ripeness and abundance of weed. Then swathing at about 30-35% grain moisture is considered ideal. But if you're harvesting it, idle moisture is 13-35%. But I have also, you know, we are in this, you know, but weather is not always cooperative. So we have to sometimes go out and do our job. So I have, you know, growers who have harvested, you know, successfully at 15%, 14%, 15%. But anything above that would be a little risky. And for storage, 13% is ideal, again, for about six months or so. But for long-term storage, lower the moisture, you know, better the shelf life for storing oats like any other grain we have. So next one here is grain quality. I would like to spend, you know, a few moments in this slide, you know, with the interest, you know, from our millers. General mills, grain millers, and some other millers we have in the region now are contracting oats from our field. And there is certain grain quality for food grade. And then also there is a quality for livestock feed and quality for forage. And oats is a multi-use crop. And a lot of times, you know, there could be grain and forage at the same time. You know, same variety can be used for that. But when we talk about food grade and milling quality, we're always looking at grain density that is higher test weight, the better. And screening percent means if you run a grain of oats in certain screen size, how many will fall through? So that will give you an indication of how much thin you have in one given sample. So that plays an important role in food grade and milling. And also growth percent. That's what's the percent of a whole grain after dehauling. So after you take all the hauls out and dehaul the seed, then how much full unbroken seed we have percent-wise when you compare it to the one with the husk on. So that's the growth percent. And you can see a picture here. I would consider this a growth, you know, dehauled seed. And seed composition, we all know oats is one of the healthiest grains we have out there. You know, we have proteins, starch, lipids, fibers, minerals, and these are common to all grains. But oat does have that, you know, dietary fiber called beta-glucan, which makes oat healthier than other grains, other grains that we consume. And FDA actually came out and approved beta-glucan to be helpful in reducing cardiovascular diseases back in early 2000, late 1900, early 2000. So the beta-glucan that we find in oat grain, oat seed, is labeled or approved by FDA for preventing cardiovascular disease. That's an important statement. And if we're thinking of livestock feed, again, you know, where you market your oats, you know, livestock feed can look at, you know, lignin percent or oil content, you know, for racehorses. So those are the things, you know, could be considered a critical component for livestock feed. And another one that we use oats for quite a bit, you know, almost half or even more than half that we oats that we grow or plant are harvested for forages. And if we're talking about forages, we always have to look for total biomass or total dry matter content and also crude protein, nutrient detergent fiber, acid detergent fiber, relative feed value, and some of the other forage quality parameters that we have to look and try to get that, you know, quantity versus quality balanced so that we get a good forage out of it. And so whenever I got forage question, you know, there's nothing to look at and then, you know, and data wise. But again, Dr. Melanie Caffey, you know, our oat breeder at SDSU started a forage trial in 2019, sorry. Dr. Melanie Caffey, 2019 in few locations across the state. And these are these are the these are the locations that's been used in 2019 and 2020. Maybe John presented this yesterday, too. But but I would like to show at least a couple of tables for you. Dr. Melanie Caffey, 2019 in the past, you know, we have to look at the locations and we have to look at the locations. Dr. Melanie Caffey, 2019 in the past, you know, we have to look at the locations and we have to look at the locations. And again, like I said, these are the these are the varieties and and genotypes. Dr. Melanie Caffey, 2018 in the past, you know, viability and genotypes, if anything you see with the numbers, they're not released yet, so they don't have their name yet. But they're to the point that they're very close to being released. Dr. Melanie Caffey, 2019 in the past, you know, we have to look at the anywhere. And there's, here is the dry matter yield. Dr. Melanie Caffey, erw radio nends. So this is a ton per acre basis. Dr. Victoria Ndeshakarvich, 2019 in study of 2013 spoilation. So there is all, there is a difference. Not much, but there is a difference quite a bit on other other quality parameters too. So so If you have any questions on on forage, you know. variety or forage trial forage numbers uh we are trying to try to move forward with uh with doing this consistently in in an annual basis so that we can have a good idea about you know um good green um high yield high grain yielding versus high forage yielding and maybe we can have a variety that will do both equally good in both situations and we can call it a dual purpose variety so that's that's our ultimate goal and another interesting paper that was published in 2019 that i found uh that's from you know dr abur at kansas state uh university did a forage trial and of course it's kansas and western kansas the numbers don't probably reflect what we can get here but it's still the trend of forage yield you see forage yield on your y-axis here in a vertical axis and you have uh soil and plus the applied n and all it shows kilogram per hectare and which is pretty similar to pounds per acre if you want to do a calculation that way and this study his crew did a study on both n rate and seeding rate on the same trial and seeding rate was were used were 48 pounds 66 pounds 80 pounds and then and rates were zero of course that's a check and then 10 30 50 and 78 pounds nitrogen per acre so this one is would be your check right here and dry matter was kind of going up for a little bit and then i would say plateau to somewhere around here so nitrogen could be somewhere in about 75 ish to have that optimum forage dry matter yield in in western kansas and another important fact that i would like to share here is seeding rates had no effect on dry matter yield or nutritive values this is very interesting i found uh maybe we can repeat this experiment and see what we can find here in our environment but but at least in this paper reported that there is no for these seeding rates studied there is no significant you know response to the to the yield another thing i i thought it was interesting is nitrogen increased crude protein which is which is expected uh usually uh but decreased adf and ndf that means it's making better quality porridge but it did plateau like it did for dry matter yield you know in either direction so if this was to if this was to adf ndf this curve would look like start from here and then go down a little bit and then that do somewhere around here uh so this is this this graph itself is it's uh it's interesting that's that's why i wanted to share this and another uh uh big uh you know topic out there right now is oats or small grain in rotation how does it do when somebody wants to you know go away from your corn and soybean rotation and have bring small grains in a full season full season crop in your rotation how does oats do and it fits really well you know in corn and soybeans and and fits better if you do after soybean but i have had producers who have grown fallen corn uh people don't like to do you know follow wheat in corn just because of the head blight issues but corn you know so oats don't have that and there are some reports that you know when you have small grain or oats in a rotation you can get up to 15 to 20 bushel bump in the following corn crop and five to eight bushel in soybean crop and there's a graph and anthony will talk about it in after a couple of minutes here and also another thing that oats can provide you is after harvesting either you harvest for forage you know early in the you know summer or or after grain you know still we can get get out and harvest oats maybe late july early august give ample time for cover crops and uh and livestock incorporated producers have have enjoyed that that window that seasonal window that oats provides quite a bit and and we all like to talk about cover crops these days so if you have a lot of thins or anything you miss when you're harvesting and you're planning to do for uh cover crops following your your oats grain crop and and producers have used that volunteer oats as a you know grass component in a cover crop mix mix that follows the crop and and another thing that we have recently started hearing about is something called amf or arboscore mycorrhizal fungi and oats and and oats are known to to enhance the fungi population in the soil and that fungi uh that fungi does a lot of good work to the to the crop that it's it's it's having the relationship with so amf you know forms this beneficial association with plants uh grown in the in the field and it does mostly with all plants uh you know even weeds and and uh but the the uh the matter is how how much colonization will it get in that that colonization the rate of colonization can differ in different crops depending on what kind of you know association it can form with the plants and and oats is known for for better colonizing these arboscular mycorrhizal fungi uh than than other crops that we grow and you can even see uh uh uh arboscules even inside the root here so it does the association is not only outside it actually inside and it almost forms that's you know uh elongated root hairs so that it will help extract uh nutrients and water better than uh better than not having them in the field and uh and high presence of amf indicates good soil health and that's that's known and documented out there and uh and this is something that's uh a very last statement in my slide you can read that corn on completely fallow ground if you have a prevent prevent acres and you and your weeds were growing you kill that weed and then the ground became fallow and if you follow that ground with corn the next year you may see you know phosphorus deficiency although the although you had enough phosphorus in the soil uh in early c or you know or in a young seedling in corn that that is that is believed to be due to lack of amf and amf population in the soil because you had fallow the previous year uh dr lehman and uh dr lehman and his crew at brookings um usda um ars experiment site did a did a study in 2009 and 2010 and and looked at amf population you know in november after following with different cover crops um and those ground were planted to uh spring wheat and oats spring wheat and oats are harvested and followed with cover crops and different species of cover crops and looked at the that the population in november so you can see oats had pretty high graph here and the mix which had oats also had this this bar graph as taller and this almost shows that you know there's none that's it's that's check of course but in canola uh canola and brassica species may you know looks like it's it's not it's not um supporting amf growth that's what it's showing me but oats does do that so this is canola right here the sea has to be here and uh so so just wanted to share this you know it's the 2009 2010 it's in our environment you know uh and done in brookings and maybe dr lehman will elaborate this particular study and next week when he talks about um you know microbial uh microbial activities in the soil and again oats as cover crops we always talk about we would like to look at roots all the time you know we we i have heard you know um a lot of people saying you know underground underground but a lot of times this underground part is so hard to see and so hard to assess what's growing and what's not growing so this is a my kind of little pit project that i had in 2013 the intention was to see grow different oat varieties or lines and then see if we can grow that in a sand-based sand-based culture sand-based soil or sand you know very heavy sand medium and in a beverage cups and then and then feed liquid liquid food all the time at all times and then you know at certain growth can we dump everything on a big pool of bucket full of water and then and get the whole plant out to see the roots and and you can see um horsepower had more root mass than than gopher and and and there would there could be you know old varieties would have different root mass than the others maybe this is something to explore down the down the road and cover crops this is a study that i was involved in a few years ago um i you know i don't want to go back to this you know this on the left when you see this 34 34 a 50 those are seed coatings and we use that seed coating and different cover crop species that were tried that year uh and then uh so these these were these are in corn you know hand broadcast in in corn plots and when corn was about you know physiological maturity i would say about first week of september and these notes were taken in in late october early november and oat does have that capability to to have that adaptability because number of plants per plot which are you know 10 foot wide by 10 20 foot long plot had this many oats plant this many pea plant this this many lentil plants this was in arlington this was in crooks so and if you want to grow something in july i have also seen oats doing better than other other small grains so later in the later in the spring so oat does have that very wide general adaptability something to keep in mind uh so this is the plot that i had those numbers taken from i think i believe this is from crooks you see these oat oat plants growing here are the flags you know marking my plots so that's why the plants number you know number of plants were accounted um that year i think this was in 2015. so i'll let anthony uh um kind of talk about you know a few slides here uh from you know and i'll i'll stop talking anthony it's all yours okay thank you david yeah we um as you know jack davis isn't in the the oats week this week to talk about uh oats marketing and economics because it is such a um specialty type market like david said a lot of it's for seed and uh uh there's food grade and there's feed and all those things but one thing we wanted to share was uh the economics of growing oats and so david if you want to throw that table up there um we just kind of uh uh got together with some of our acquaintances that we knew that grew oats and came up with some ballpark figures of course um uh kind of as a general consensus and so seed there two and a half bushels around twenty dollars um an acre i think that may be a little high this year i i found out a quote uh yesterday 750 a bushel so uh that may be just slightly a little high fertilizer there you know of course uh we would recommend on establishing a yield goal and coming up with with recommendations there but this is a 50 30 30 10 uh as sulfur 45 dollars uh broadleaf herbicide uh 12 dollars uh applied uh of course david mentioned the crown rust is so important so we'd assume we'd we'd want to apply that so at 12 dollars um you can get insurance on oats it's um it's kind of a minimalistic uh type uh coverage but it it does cover uh you know a multi-parallel type situation so five dollars on insurance equipment is difficult um it doesn't take as much equipment to uh grow oats but uh we we put 40 dollars on that fuel with no-till practices at eight uh that could be a little high maybe not um if you're going to store your oats uh we figured 125 bushel yield there at eight cents a bushel so ten dollars uh trucking 125 bushels at 16 cents thinking that maybe you would go to a a food grade type market that 16 cents could be a little low a lot of times millers will quote your price and and just come pick it up for that price so so the trucking may not even be a a a you know a valid point in this graph but we put 20 dollars in there land is a difficult one um depending upon where you're at of course but in this scenario we put 200 so we kind of wanted to set up a worst case scenario uh to kind of make it look a little bit better than it is uh in the end but you could look at that a couple different ways so 372 total expenses um at 125 bushels the break even would be 298. um i have heard some quotes from millers this year at 350. so um definitely an opportunity to to make some money this year on oats i think uh if you address some of those other issues in the list we can we can do a lot better than that so uh then the straw a lot of questions about straw um you know we wouldn't like uh like you to continually remove uh crop forages from fields because of of organic matter and now carbon carbon's a big deal but two tons of straw there at 90 a ton 180 um so you could you know you could use that to really improve your your profitability of oats and then david's going to talk about um plant growth regulators here after i get off and uh 12 ounces of that is right at 18 so he'll discuss uh how plant growth regulator works and um the effects on the oats so so i think there's some opportunities to put oats in um you know obviously if your land rent isn't that high i think there's even more opportunities so anyway we can go to the next slide i want david mentioned this rotation effect um a number of years ago i way back now in 2006 uh uh we were talking about rotations back then for some reason and and uh i did a literature review i i love doing literature reviews this study here has 56 site years of data uh i looked for publications that had uh rotation evaluations and um number of years of soybeans in a row stacked on top of each other of course those publications had to have uh a corn soybean rotation as well and so what i came up with is is the art of this is to to come up with one graph that summarizes everything that you want that literature view to show and and this may be just a little bit difficult to understand but my 100 line is i've compared i've converted all of those yields on a relative scale compared to the corn soybean rotation the yield of soybeans in the corn soybean rotation so that would be 100 so while those points that are on that 100 are not are are not the corn soybean rotation yields but the line is indicative of what the uh yield was for the corn for soybeans in the corn soybean rotation so and then i had to figure out well how do i show yields of plots that uh were beyond one year of soybeans in the rotation uh and so i did that with the one there so that would be at least two years without soybeans in the rotation the one so that could be three years without or four years without i had to lump all those together uh in that one category so at least two years without soybeans in the rotation there indicated with the one we've got about a six percent increase in yield from the soybeans if we stack soybeans on top of soybeans so that would be the two two years in a row we lose about five percent yield of those soybeans and we moved to three we lose about ten percent and at four and five years it's about 13 percent so while we're not talking about soybeans today we're looking at the impact of a rotation and david mentioned the importance or the option of of putting oats in your rotation realizing i use this in the wheat week as well because wheat could be put in as well so oats is one of those important crops that would hold a place in our rotation of course all of our pest folks have talked talked about um you know pests and things and and uh you know specifically i think about the disease triangle or host plants or things like that and so the rotation serves to break that up and oats is a really valid placeholder in that so next slide i want to talk a little bit about nutrient management uh this is our table from our soil uh nutrient recommendation guide for oats um you know it's it's old it is old uh uh we we've we've had to kind of focus more on on corn and and and soybeans in our state and um sadly oats kind of fell away and we we didn't do a lot of work on on the nutrient requirements of oats to update it but we this is what we have and you know it goes by soil test category for phosphorus and potassium just like corn soybeans and wheat do and uh it's based on yield goal of course again yield goal is not the yield you want but the yield you can get so if you don't have a history of oats in your rotation you know you're really you know talk you know ask around the neighborhood and try to find out what what oats are typically yielding in your neighborhood and and that would be a good place to start so now the nitrogen recommendation david is going to talk about that in the future so here's our next slide um uh there is our current nitrogen recommendation i would really discourage you from using it um it is in dire need of update uh that coefficient there of 1.3 um david's going to say we're we're really confident that that's too high um and also if you look at the um international plant nutrition institute which is no longer uh uh an organization uh but i think a lot of their uh documents have been moved over to the fluid fertilizer or the fertilizer institute i guess i want to say uh and they have a recommendation of of of 90. so if you measure 30 pounds in your soil test you subtract that from 90 you know they're recommending apply 60 and david may talk about that a little bit but this 1.3 um our oats are really efficient users of nitrogen there's our equations for phosphorus if you have the olsen test or the braid test those are also included in our soil nutrient recommendation guide and then potassium as well down down at the bottom so at uh at this point we'd like to take a poll and matt is going to put up a poll concerning your nitrogen use because we'd like to know where you're at so if we could take just uh 20 30 seconds if you could just choose if you're an oat grower or if you know somebody that grows oats and you know what they apply uh please answer as well uh we're just interested in a general survey on this question so when we take that down uh david will will take over again and the rest of this about his nitrogen work and plant growth regulator work is is is very very interesting okay i'm gonna end this poll i think uh all the interested folks voted for this and uh yeah like expected you know close you know almost uh almost almost 70 percent uh of all of you who answered the question you know uh said 5200 and that's what you know we expect it to be and uh and let's talk more about the nitrogen you know uh fertilizer rate that we have done this is a study that started in so i can't move my slide matt um if the slide isn't moving maybe uh it did it did okay so so um anthony kind of made a good segue for this and uh why this topic and um current fertilizer recommendation like you know we have 1.3 as a coefficient you know multiplier to the yield goal and after talking to several oat producers uh when i first came to extension i realized that this nobody is really using it and we thought it's pretty high and we needed some kind of revisiting or recalibrating this number and that's where the effort came from and uh uh so so and then also we decided uh there is a something called plant growth regulator you know it's it's um common name brand name is palisade a lot of you folks probably know this name palisade that's a plant growth regulator shortens the plant height and increases the extendability of the plant growth regulator and prevents lodging and we wanted to use plant growth regulator in our study as an added variable because or tends to lodge more than other small grains that we grow and this is only recommended or labeled for small grains out there you know label rate is 10 and a half to 14.4 ounce per acre with at least 10 glands of gallons of water and at least the label says you can apply anywhere from it has a really flexible window fix four that is when your tillers are all formed all the way to second joint that's fix seven crop growth stage and we'll talk more about this i started in 2016 um you know due to some limited funding and and limited resources i was only able to do one site that is the northeast farm um you know close to watertown where i'm stationed in 2016 and 17 just one site you know one trial per year and uh and both years we this is something important i would like to reiterate and both years we tank mix this uh palisade with herbicide bronate at fix four or fix five somewhere in their growth stage and that means early in the season because label label for it uh or stated that you could do it and in both years we didn't you know we didn't see anything you know uh significant yield it responds to nitrogen but not with a plant growth regulator both years we did that but with uh but with the growth regular we didn't see any other growth regulars effect on in height or lodging or anything else and that that made us even more curious why is it doing that so that brought a you know in 2018 with additional resources from uh south of a nutrient resource research and education council were able to expand this project to uh multiple sites per year so since 2018 it has been tested at least at least five sites you know per year uh and each year at two locations northeast and southeast farm we've used palisade as an added variable and in rest of the farmer cooperatives feel we only used nitrogen as a as our treatment variable so here's something from 2016. uh the variety was used uh horsepower is used uh and uh and highest yield that year we achieved in northeast farm was 170 157 bushel with 120 pounds nitrogen so that brings this 1.3 coefficient down to 0.76 and that's for the highest yielding for that year and for that location and uh and there's no significant effects of pgr on plant height and so we didn't gain much by adding 20 20 pounds nitrogen right so 120 bushel you got 157 the kind of plateaued 140 bushel i'm 140 pounds and only only give you extra two bushel so this is 2017 again again we used to we're only trying one site that year um so and i didn't run any any core you know trend line like this uh for this particular year uh that the the the average you know data points were kind of you know in a places that i wasn't expecting but still variety horsepower and uh did 104 bushel with 100 pounds and and it took a little more and that year because it was very very dry 2017 at the northeast farm where we tried this uh this trial and now 2018 again uh this year we had other locations also but i'm going to show you the northeast farm and we used variety hayden and the reason for different varieties at different places we didn't want to impose the impose our producers out there uh in the farmer cooperators that i had tested this field and also you know i didn't want variety to be the the factor and highest yield was observed for zero n that means check plot with no palisade and uh so that means that means the soybean that we had in the previous year in this field and some of the residual soil nitrogen we had was enough to produce the the maximum yield in that particular year and if if you if you if you proportion proportion that out this that multiplication factor becomes one 0.6 in this particular year that these isJanand Lukoenque and the new um presses up theields bar 30- realizes we can see just help them out and dots and we're talking about these one calic exists in 100 generally but for sure if you so and for this you can hack large as well we respond to cutting a little more but yeah if we click on that you want this it's equivalent to interesting person So we're able to prevent some lodging and height reduction by applying palisade. So 2018, these are farmer cooperatives field. Only nitrogen was nitrogen amount were applied. We didn't test any palisade in these fields. We didn't test any palisade in these fields. We didn't test any palisade in these fields. We didn't test any palisade in these fields. These are most of the location difference in yield. So we had Arlington as the highest yielding site that year, then followed by Salem, and Aurora was the last one. That Aurora was, we had two really strong storms later in the vegetative stage, and that just flattened everything out there that year. So that's why it's less yielding in that year. Ninety-nate. Ninety-nate. Ninety-nate. Ninety-nate. Ninety-nate. Ninety-nate. Ninety-nate. Ninety-nate. Ninety-nate. Ninety-nate. In Kaanile. Ninety-nate. Ninety-nate. Ninety-nate. Ninety-nate. Ninety-nate. Ninety-nate. Ninety-nate. Ninety-nate. Ninety-nate. Ninety-nate. Ninety-nate. Ninety-nate. Ninety-nate. Ninety-nate. Ninety-nate. Ninety-nate. Ninety-nate. Ninety-nate. Ninety-nate. Ninety-nate. Ninety-nate. we're able to reduce the height by applying palacite all the way up to 10 inches this year. 2019 farmers field only nitrogen were you know nitrogen variable were tested and you have Garrison and you have Aurora. Garrison were a little lower yielding than Aurora that year. 2020 we were able to push our site from not only you know you know I-29 corridor you know this chamber is Chamberlain or close to Chamberlain anyways so we had three sites farmer site in 2020 you know in addition to northeast and southeast research farm works in Chamberlain, Garrison and Aurora. These are the numbers. Chamberlain had corn stubble this year that is the unique one and and yielded the best overall. These two sites were very heavily moisture deficient. And by all that you know being said so these are the these are the 65 points data points from 11 site years I had and I just I just threw that out there and see how those plots scatter you know in a graph. And and if I were to see a trend there is no trend almost you know straight there's no response to applied nitrogen at all. So so I'm just eyeballing it there is no statistics in here. If I were to you know put this line somewhere in here it'd be pretty safe to say you know after about 90 ish we're not gaining much and in most cases the chick plots were equal or or there about with other nitrogen applied plots. So each each point is average of three replications in in that site in that year. So if that makes sense. So we had three replications for all of our trials every year. So conclusion is more N is needed to produce a bushel of grain in a stressful environment. PGR was useful to reducing lodging and reducing harvest loss in that case and if you're doing on a field scale. And it's safe to say that current nitrogen recommendation for oats is likely higher than required and needs recalibration. And it does. Like Anthony said some of the data that's used to produce that recommendation and our book that's currently available is kind of old. It's kind of safe you know this is still ongoing and it's already funded for 2021. But if somebody asks me I would say somewhere in between seventh of a pound to ninth of a pound for a bushel of grain. And and we're and we also tried the dose and timing of palisade. What time is the best time to apply palisade because first two years we didn't see any effect of palisade when we're applying you know early in the season with tank mixed with herbicide. So this is the 2017 and 2018 data. 2017 was done done in Garrison. 2018 was Southeast Farm. So these Fs are fixed six control, fixed five and then we even split the application. You know, you had rate seven and a half ounces and same rate went back to the same plot, another plot and one did twice. When you see fixed five and fixed seven, that means we applied twice. And we went all the way up to 21 ounces, which is not labeled. So we don't recommend to do that. You know, we're just did it just to see, you know, in a research plot. So that's kind of, you know, without going all of these numbers, you know, look at the height and lodging and then height. If we combine all of these three, so here's some pictures. You know, this one is at least foot and a half difference between control. This is control and this is 21 ounce applied later in the stage F7. So without what I was trying to say, without going to all of these numbers, if you were to find a happy medium, I think going with, it's labeled for anywhere from 10 and a half ounce to 14.4 ounce. So 12 or higher. And if we can catch it around like peak six, that would be give you the best results. Or at least that we have seen so far. 12 or higher. And if it's in grain quality, we are also interested if they apply palisade and apply more nitrogen or less nitrogen, it's doing anything with the grain quality. So we sent all our samples to General Mills Laboratory and Brookings campus. And without, you know, and I just wanted the General Mills to test whatever they would test for normal, normally in their grain samples. So these are the number, these are the things tested. Protein, plump oats, meat oats, thin oats. These are the parameters that General Mills usually test, you know, in a standard test they have and what these mean. And we did not see any negative effects or any kind of response by, you know, by the palisade. And in at least one or two locations out of all of these sites we've used, nitrogen did bump that, you know, seed protein, this NiR, the seed protein content a little bit. And we're in the end of our talk. And I would like to acknowledge South Dakota Nutrient Research and Education Council, NREC, for funding the project since 2018. And it's still ongoing. And I think we can pull all the data together after we're done with 2021. And then, and have some kind of consensus, you know, among, among all of us and say, you know, and we can put some numbers that multiplication factor and have a good recommendation for oats on our, on our fertilizer recommendation guide. And here's my contact information. I'm based out of Watertown office and office number, my email, anytime. And most of you, if you have my cell number already, feel free to call, share that cell phone number. It's, it's open to public, I would like to, you know, visit with anybody and everybody out there who are interested in oats, or general in, you know, or other crops in general. And I think Matt is going to put out a poll, which is, you know, about, you know, about your thoughts about, about, of our content and, and, and, and presentation today. Thank you, David. That was great. Lots of good work there. Lots of hard work. And very well done.