Howard Bingham
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0H4uUTF-rq8
People & Blogs
 UN Armor Keihtar Sun Sun That part clicking the bottom button back of the portion,천 tagohoh Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Welcome this morning to the funeral services of Howard Green. We're grateful that he could be with us today and spend time together celebrating his life. My name is Bishop Jared Jensen. I am the Bishop of the Fox Rates Award in the neighborhood here in Providence where the opinions attend. I'd like to recognize President Seth Tate from our state presidency. He's the state president. He'll be presiding this meeting and grateful that he could be with us today as well. We'd like to thank our chorister, Amy Behemoth, daughter-in-law, and our organized Carol Wrigley-A-Cousin for their musical performance, their musical participation. We'll start our meeting today by opening hymn number 100, Near My God Today. And then the opening prayer will be offered by Dean Dean. Let's pray.ほど For a slices of Lord With 55 Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Our dear Father in heaven, we are so grateful for all the many people who have showed up here today. We are grateful for Howard and for the life that he lived and the legacy that he left behind. Heavenly Father, we ask for thy spirit to be with us here today. We ask for peace and comfort to be with the friends and family who are here, who are mourning and missing him. And we pray that they will be comforted and know that he is loved by so many. And we love thee. We pray that the spirit will be with those speakers who are speaking today, that they will be able to say the words that thou would have them say, and that they will have the strength that they need to get through today. We will do very much in the city's needs in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. We'll have a life sketch that will be offered by Rachel Bingham, Howard's daughter. Following Rachel, we'll hear from Scott Bingham, the son. And then we'll hear from Neil Bingham, Howard's brother. Following Neil, there will be a special musical number, Peace in Christ, that will be performed by the Bingham sisters, accompanied by Carol Wrigley. And then we'll have a speaker, Carl Bingham, also Howard's son. We'll go to that. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. in Weston, Idaho, along with his six sisters, Charlene, Barbara, Elaine, Diane, Janet, and Karen, and two brothers, Grum and Neil. They enjoyed living and working on the farm together, where he learned a strong work ethic alongside his siblings and close cousins. They spent many hours hauling hay, planting crops, and milking cows, morning, noon, and night. After a hard morning of fields, they would often pick up a game of basketball after lunch and then go back to the fields and more. Howard graduated from Westside High School in 1980, where he enjoyed participating in basketball, where him and his teammates took three years to stay running, football, and track and field, under the tutelage of amazing Westside coaches who helped instill values that carried on throughout Howard's life. After high school, Howard left Weston, Idaho, to serve a two-year mission for the Church of Jesus Christ to a lot of these things, including Ohio. There, he grew a great love for Jesus Christ and his gospel, spreading our heavenly father's love, bringing others into his goal by teaching the plan of salvation. The Lord loves the gospel, and we are so grateful for his plan for us. He showed incredible dedication thrown at his ears as he built coins, where we held the priesthood. He was an example to his family and friends and he was persevering through his diagnosis. He would sit in his computer every single day and listen to his scriptures as he read them, with a book in front of him, until he couldn't. After returning home from his mission, he was further diseducation. Howard graduated from BYU with the Bosh's degree in animal science in 1987. The summer after, Howard met and so did Mary to speak more to speak more to speak. The famous story that we're leading goes that upon his sister dance insistence, he attended a summer institute dance at church in Logan, the top. So it's called and I looked at his sister. When he met Christine, a beautiful mom club. Yummy. He was driving a car, so he eventually asked for a number of people. How he didn't write it down on. He promised he'd remember. She'd never call me. He was so surprised that he remembered the phone number and called. He started dating truly after. He was so brave. He was engaged three months later at Howardville Post on July 31st, Christine's birthday after a creek watch. It's been I know. He went to be unengraved a William Mary on the back of the locket. She still has a Martin's locket today. She still has a Martin's locket today. They were set to be married and won't be double on December 18th. 1987 for all time eternity. And their future began together. Howard continued his work towards getting higher education when he acquired his doctorate and veteran medicine at Washington State. While attending Washington State, he made approaches that continued through his lifetime and started his family where his first son, Arnold Howard, was born. Howard worked as a veterinary previous to attending, to attain his PhD in epidemiology at the Ohio State University where his next two sons, Scott Dwayne, in downtown to perform. Where he taught at Utah State University in the veterinary department for several years prior to the advisor on the surgical located in Michigan as a research epidemiologist, Ron Smithfield, slash child, and only daughter into her student for a moment. Howard worked as a clinical medical member in various hospitals in Kalamazoo looking towards and achieving one of Howard's greatest accomplishments which was owning a community medical hospital in South Florida, Arizona where he worked until he was diagnosed with dental and protein. After his diagnosis, Howard worked from home as a research epidemiologist consultant for American Baybot company for a Baybot cattle operation out of Canada until his disease admitted and continued. During his life and Christine had a blessing of breathing. four children. As a family, we lived in Washington, Utah, Idaho, Ohio, Michigan, and back to Utah after Howard's diagnosis. All throughout, he instilled in their hard work, a love for laughter and fun, determination, a love for Jesus Christ, and our Heavenly Father and so many more amazing attributes. Throughout his life and the time he spent across the United States, Howard encouraged many dear friends that had enriched, supported, and blessed their lives in which they are an eternally dear and feel for. Howard had many interests such as swimming, running, cycling, fishing, camping. He enjoyed spending time outdoors with his children, teaching them the way of the land. He had rode at many back tours along with family and friends throughout the years, and during his diagnosis, Howard kept physically mentally active, which along with God's intervention, helped him out, helped him out with his original diagnosis of six to 18 months by 11 and a half years. Howard also enjoyed bringing homes. For example, in Michigan, with the help of his boys, he constructed them start to finish the entire basement that had trenched the help during the yard around the corner of the house. In Utah, despite his diagnosis, he built five raised bed garden beds, sand boxes, planted fruit trees, constructed by the fine closure for Chris's elementary class, and kept all of our homes looking beautiful as he attended to his quote-unquote perfect home. Howard was a wonderful father taking care of his children on many, taking his children on many adventures, like taking his daughter fishing every single Saturday in the summertime, always teaching them new things, and showing up for their many activities, such as football fan competitions, track and filming, dance recitals, and many other extracurriculars, which he encouraged his children to participate in. Howard loved and cherished each one of his children very deeply, and did this all, and did all that he could to enrich their lives. Howard believed this more than words can tell. He fought courageously through the years and continued to show up in spite of the challenges he faced. Howard hoped and did eventually launch all his work, children, graduate high school, and serve missions for the Church of Jesus Christ. He attended the marriages of two children and the birth of three grandchildren, where he believed in legacy of Howard, love, and laughter. Howard survived by his return with me and Christine, his four children, Carl H., and his wife, Amy and Vigam, with their three kids, Dean, DeGin, Henry and Vigam, in Paris, California, and Dan Davis. Karen and Jean and Alfre and Neil and William. He was perceived by death by his mother, Joyce, and being a friend by his brother, while I'm in. The family would like to be known when there's just in here who present the hospice, including Holly Green, who have walked through this hard journey through us, with us, as well as our family and friends that have supported us at one point. Howard was loved and cherished throughout his life and has left so much behind, but we are art, but we are in rapture to think that through the heavenly Father's plan, he is walking, talking, and moving, fishing again, with his ancestors beyond the veil and will always be watching over us. Through the examples in his life, his family and friends can be exemplars of his now legacy. In the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. So welcome, friends, family, and those joining us online from afar. Thank you for coming today in support of my папwork, Howard Boone, and our family as we recognize and remember his life. I want to begin my talk by quoting a scripture in the New Testament of the Bible, specifically in the book of John, where we learn that Jesus decided to return to see his friend Lazarus, whom he knew was far the dead. Jesus was preparing to bring Lazarus back to life. I want to focus on chapter 11, verses 32 through 35, where it says, Then when Mary was come where Jesus was, and saw him, she fell down at his feet, saying unto him, Lord, if thou hast been here, my brother had not died. When Jesus therefore saw her weeping, and the Jews also weeping, which came with her, he groaned in the spirit, and was troubled, and said, Where have you laid them? They said unto them, Lord, come and see you. Jesus but. Amen. In this passage we learn that though Jesus knew Lazarus was not truly gone, and that he was about to rise, raise his friend from the dead, he had such empathy to not only feel the pain of those around him, but to shed tears of his own with them. So please forgive me, I cry very much. We know that my father is not gone, but has transitioned on to the next phase of his life, joined by friends and family that are being passed on. But this will not be his final destination, as he is eagerly working and waiting, along with everyone in the spirit world, to join about in Jesus and his celestial kingdom. As my father is in the spirit world, he may remember a few things he has accomplished in his life to prove closer to the Savior. When he was eight years old, he was baptized by his father, Carl W. King, who held proper priesthood authority from God to baptize others in the name of Jesus Christ, and immediately after received the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on the cross. This was also administered to him by his father. He was baptized by his father. Baptism is the gate by which we enter, and is merely the beginning. Jesus showed us by example that we need to be baptized by a virgin, even though Jesus himself was good. In the Preach My Gospel, on page 210, it says, quote, qualifications for baptism, confirmation of which be willing to take upon yourself the name of Christ, and have eternal determination to serve Christ to the end. My father had the desire to live and fulfill these two particular qualifications. He was always looking for opportunity to serve others, much like in the Book of Mormon. In Mosiah, chapter 2, verse 17, when King Benjamin is addressing his people, he says, quote, quote, I tell you these things that you may learn wisdom, that you may learn that when you are in the service of your fellow babies, you are only in the service of your God, I quote. My father was a living example of serving others. I remember ever since we moved here to Utah in 2015, that every winter, he would go and shovel our neighbor, Sister Marley, I use, drive by. He continued to do so, year after year, until he was physically unable to do so any longer. On my mission, I saw a painting that changed the image in my mind of how baptism looks. I always viewed it from a forward viewpoint, straight and narrow, which it is, but in the painting, it showed a view of the path from a sideways view. It was a treacherous uphill climb. There were ups and downs, spikes and divots, ultimately leading in an upward direction. On my father's personal path towards Christ, Reckoning told me that my dad always had to experience things for himself, starting from a young childhood. He took his life in strength, climbing with all his might to the peaks of his path, while enduring as he pushed forward through the depths of the valleys given to him. I doubt that my father knew all that was to come once he accepted baptism and received the throne of the ghost, but I know that he was ready and willing to be like Jesus and follow his blessings wherever they lay in life. As my father prepared to go on his mission, he took another two steps forward, closer to Jesus, as he received the mouthful priesthood along with his temple and balance. Again, my grandfather, Carl W. Bain, was the one to lay his hands on my father's head and give him the mouth as a priesthood. Grandpa Bain told me that my father was excited to be able to go on his mission and serve the people of Ohio. With the power of the priesthood, he would be able to bless all those he encountered with the authority and love of God to his children. My father also had the opportunity to use this same priesthood power to bless his family in later years. In the April 2018 general conference talk given by President Bowes, he said concerning the priesthood of his father, a father who holds the priesthood presides in his family, but the authority of the priesthood he holds. He has no need to have the direction or approval of priesthood keys in order to counsel the members of his family, hold family meetings, give priesthood blessings to his wife and children, or give healing blessings to family members or others. If fathers would magnify their priesthood in their own family, they would further the mission of the church as much as anything else they might do. Fathers who hold them up as a priesthood should keep the commandments so they have the power of the priesthood to give blessings to their families. Fathers should also cultivate love and family relationships so that family members will want to ask their fathers for blessings. And her should encourage more priesthood blessings in the family. Fathers function as equal partners of their lives. As the family proclamation teaches, and fathers, when they are privileged to exercise the power and influence of the priesthood keys, do so by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness, and meekness, and love unfamed. The high standard of the exercise for the exercise of priesthood authority is most important in the family. President Harold B. Lee gave this promise just after he became president of the church. Never is the power of the priesthood which you hold more wonderful than when there is a crisis in your home, a serious illness, or some quick decision that has to be made. Fested in the power of the priesthood, which is the power of all might be found, is the power to perform miracles of the Lord if the Lord wills it. So, but in order for us to use that priesthood, we must be worthy to exercise it. A failure to understand this principle is a failure to receive the lessons of holding that great priesthood. I remember as a child in elementary school, every year, my father would have the whole family gathered together in front of our house, in front of our front room of our house, and sit us down. Then, one by one, he would give us a father's blessing for the coming school year. He would bless us that we would do well in our schooling, have fun while we were there, and be safe while we were away from the home. My father truly is the priesthood he was entrusted with to bless the lives of everyone around him. The temple is a sacred place, and this was very important to my father. When he went through the temple for the first time, he was excited and anxious. He went through the local temple and received his temple endowments. Grandpa and Grandma David both talked to him about the importance of making and keeping temple garments and wearing and honoring his temple garments to help him remember and follow Jesus in his life. In the General Handbook, we learn a bit about temple endowments. The word endowment means a gift. The temple endowment is literally a gift from God through which we bless his children. The endowment can be received only in only temples. All the promised blessings of the endowment are in force both in this life and for eternity. The fulfillment of these blessings depends on faithfulness to the gospel of Jesus Christ. Not only will my father be blessed in this life, but in his current life in the spirit of life. When I went to the temple for my first time, my father was the one who accompanied me. I can only imagine what he was thinking as he went through full circle from being the one helped for his first time to helping someone else enter the temple for their first time. He was a wonderful guy and helped me while I was in the temple. With the gift of Melchizedek Priesthood and his temple endowments, my father was able to further progress on his journey through life, helping strangers and family alike along the way. The most important thing in my mind is temple marriage. Regular marriages are different from temple marriages in which the words spoken are until death do us part. With the temple marriage, the priesthood is used to seal or join two people together, not only for not for this life, but the next life to come. Death has no hold on those sealed together for all time and eternity. Those married in the temple will be reunited after death with the love of their love. This not only connects them to each other, but any children they would have within the sacred promise as well. This creates a never-ending, unbreakable chain, spanning generation after generation, creating a large family of ancestors and descendants. In the family, a proclamation to the world says, quote, husband and wife have a solemn responsibility to love and care for each other and for their children. Children are an heritage of the Lord. Parents have a sacred duty to rear their children in love and righteousness, to provide for their physical and spiritual needs, and to teach them to love and serve one another, observe the commandments of God, and be law-abiding citizens wherever they live. Husbands and wives, mothers and fathers, will be held accountable before God for the discharge of these obligations. The families are dignified by God. Marriage between man and woman is essential to his eternal life. Children are entitled to birth within the bonds of matrimony, and to be reared by a father and mother who honor marital battles with complete fidelity. Happiness in family life is most likely to be achieved when families are established and maintained on principles of faith, prayer, repentance, forgiveness, respect, love, compassion, work, and wholesome recreational activities. By divine design, fathers are to preside over their families in love and righteousness and are responsible to provide the necessities of life and protection for their families. Mothers are primarily responsible for the nurture of their children and these safer responsibilities, fathers and mothers are obligated to help one another as equal partners. Disability, death, or other circumstances may necessitate individual adaptation. In quote. This last part perfectly captures our family the last few years. Even after my father was diagnosed nearly 12 years ago, he continued to work his hardest to support our family. Though he was no longer able to work in an active role in the vet clinics, he sought to provide the right to provide for our family. Before we moved back to Utah, we temporarily lived in Idaho with my grandparents, my father's mom, and dad. As we prepared to move to Utah, my mother was at the grocery store and she ran into a family friend. After talking with each other for a while, this friend offered to see if they could find my father a job within their company. This ended up being a true miracle. The job entailed online work, diagnosing deceased cattle from pictures sent online and writing up documents on how they passed. This work allowed my father to work from home, take breaks when he felt tired, work when he was well-rested and support our family financially. As the years passed, he slowly did less work until he was no longer able to work at his computer. But this gave my mother time to reintegrate herself into work in society. In the end, my father needed full-time care and my mother became the one financially supporting our household. But my father gave everything he had up until he could no longer. He kept his promise he made long ago in the temple when he was sealed together forever with my mother. Now, he will continue to work hard as he waits for her to join him in the spirit form. Because of the Savior's ultimate sacrifice, we will one day be reunited again as a family. My father did all he could to be like Jesus and kept the promises he made to him. And in doing so, he became more of our Savior. Though he was not perfect and made mistakes from time to time, he did the best he could to be a good husband and father. We love him and will miss him very much. It will be a great day when we will all be reunited together once again. In the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. the opportunity to share some thoughts of one of the greatest heroes of my life. Growing up with Howard was like having someone who embodied the Scout Law. Trustworthy, loyal, helpful, furthest, kind, obedient, cheerful, thrifty, brave, clean, and reverent. Honestly, growing up, watching everything Howard did made me want to be just like him. He was literally that cool brother that did it all. We had about 10 years between us, but he never made me feel anything less as a little kid brother. One thing that I hear family often say is, Howard always held a standard. He had no problem standing up for what was right. Even if it was to defend his own dad at a BYU game after another fan didn't approve dad's very light tap with his potato chips on his head. This same individual was found to be in the wrong section and seat minutes later and was being escorted out. And I think Howard enjoyed seeing that and he said, bye-bye. I always heard a number of names for Howard. I knew Neil Fuller called him Big H. Other friends and family would call him Howie. In fact, I want to say that Howie could have come from Coach Lyle Henderson. Although Barbara said that too, I think. Probably everybody. I wanted to call him those names too, but I never did because I felt like he might wonder why I used those names. He was always just my big brother Howard. I think we all have experiences with Howard that could be shared. I'd like to share a couple. Some are impactful. Some are in the name of fun. Howard and Ron were oftentimes having fun with each other. A little bit of fun, a little bit of taunting, teasing. Plenty of work to go with it. One example is, while playing around in their younger years, Ron decided to shoot Howard with his feet again. Now, the rest of the story doesn't mean that Howard was getting back at him. But, well, the way that tells the story is that Howard inadvertently got back at Ron, went fishing at Redfish Lake, and Howard caught Ron by the ear with his fishing. And it must have been a good catch because it sounded like they had to come off the lake to get the hook out. One thing we laughed a lot about at our house is when Howard and our cousin Stephen decided to try their painting skills on our farm pickup truck with the purple dye that we use on cows. When Dad found them and disapproved of their artwork, he dropped Howard's drawers and painted his butt purple. So, let's just say that Dad may have perceived the worst of that deal when Mom was less than impressed with his artwork. I have to share a little story about Howard. It's just one of the examples of how great of the heart he had. We were about 10 years apart, and I think it's important to remember that in this story, that he was a teenager at this point. So, I'm not sure of my age. I think I was 6 or 7, which puts him about, you know, 16 or 17. I didn't have a great bike growing up. I had handy downs last night. So, my bike was kind of rickety. It didn't steer very straight. It was rusty. It wasn't a bike that I loved to ride with my friends. But needless to say, on my birthday, Howard came in to our front room with this new blue bike that was beautiful. It had these nice handlebars on it. It was a beautiful blue bike. It had the knobby tires. It had the banana seat. And it was amazing. I didn't know at the time, but it was a bike that he and Stephen, I believe, spent hours in our old shed, standing down and repainting so that I could have a new bike. I loved it. And it meant so much to me that he would take time out of his day to make a bike for me. I grew up playing a lot of cash with Howard. He was really generous with his time. I'll never forget having him throw at me faster and faster. Finally, when he seemed like he was satisfied with me catching or getting out of the way, from the faster balls, he started throwing faster. And they would come so fast that they would whistle through the air. And it was a little bit scary. But I loved that he would trust me to catch the balls. Howard loved to play softball with his friends in the neighborhood from the ward. And I remember when Ray Reynolds-Bacher, who would often play opposite of him, I think on first base, and Howard would play on shortstop, explained that sometimes those fastballs would come over a little wild. And I can attest to that as well. Growing up with Howard, I always found there was something new to learn from him. And I loved it. Howard would shoot hoops often, and he was a great shooter. I always dreamed of the day that I could be as fast and good as him at basketball. One time, Howard invited me to come along with him in an early morning shoot-around with the guys at the high school. I was excited to be on the same court as him and the other guys. I was sure, I'm sure it was, to rebound his balls, mapping him and his friends, but he let me take a few shots with the fellas too. He made me feel important. Howard shared this story with Shirlene a few years ago that she recorded. One event that helped shape his life. And it's in his words. When I was a freshman, I made the basketball team. But unfortunately, after a couple months, my math grades started to go down. The first term, I got a C. The second term, I got a D. By January, I was getting an F. The reason I got an F was because me and another student would sit in algebra and play tic-tac-toe and stare out the window instead of listening. I would never do the homework. So when Coach Conn Smith became aware of the problem, he said he would have to let us go from the team unless we were willing to spend three to three and a half hours that we were normally spent in basketball practice each day going to the library and redoing all the math we had missed. The other young man chose to quit basketball. I loved basketball and loved to be coached by Coach Smith. And I chose to go to the library after school each day until I finally got caught up. Coach Smith taught me a valuable life lesson. I thought if you were a really good athlete that they would let me do anything in school, but I learned I was wrong. Coach Smith taught me that if I focused on complicated things like math and devoted myself to it, I can learn it, and sometimes it takes all you have to be successful. Howard and I spent a lot of time together stacking the hull and hay. He would always have a process that seemed to be efficient and well thought out. One time when we were working together, I was putting in the least amount of effort as possible in cleaning up some construction material. I knew he was frustrated with me, and at one point, I knew he was frustrated with me, but I was only doing the job halfway. I didn't want to be there, and I didn't want to do this job in the corrals. So he stopped me after a few minutes and explained to me that the job was only worth doing if I put effort into it. Giving half effort only extended the job, and he was right. We text back a little back and forth in preparation for today in our family chat, and Janet and Chris said I could share these two messages. I mean, Rachel shared a little bit of this. Janet said, I'm going to take credit for Howard and Chris meeting. We were both living at home the summer after my freshman year at BYU. I talked him into going to the YSA dance at the Golden Toaster, which is where they met, and kept encouraging him to keep asking her out after she turned him down. Chris. Hey, I heard that. I only turned him down because I was going to summer school, was released to study press, and young adult in for a young adult branch, and I was dating here and there. He would only ask me two days before. I have to defend myself. I love that. I remember later when Howard and Chris started dating. Chris, we heard bits and pieces of this wonderful woman that he was seeing. He seemed to really like her because he told her that he was going to bring her home for dinner. It sounded like this must be important because we had never heard before these instructions to any prior point. The instructions given were as follows. When you ask for something, say please or thank you. And no chewing with your mouth open. And don't talk with your mouth full. Howard has always seemed to have a goal, plan, strategy, and expected outcome for the things he was working on. I spent two days with Howard driving in the U-Haul back from Michigan when the family moved to Weston. The idea behind that was to help drive the truck back, and Howard would drive a little, and I would drive a lot. It ended up being that I enjoyed the visit with him over the next two days, but he drove 100% of the time. During that two-day drive, he feared that he would like to be able to do just a few more things before he left this life. He wanted to get his family settled into Cache Valley. The safety and the security of his family was number one. Hope to be able to see his children graduate from high school and possibly serve missions. When we learned that Howard had a fast-growing tumor in the brain, we also learned that the survival rate was under 5%. And the average... Whoops. Let's see. I lost my place. Let's see. The average... It was under 5%. The average length of survival for glioblastobom in patients was estimated to be only eight months. The two-year survival rate was about 18%. Five-year survival rate, 5 to 10%. And after 10 years, 0.71%. When Howard was given the diagnosis, I wondered if I'd have another year with him. My wife said something impactful. She said, Howard has always been someone to beat the odds. Why not now? Just over 11 1⁄2 years later, it's nothing short of a miracle that Howard was with us for as long as he was. With his testimony stronger than ever, he let me know in no uncertain terms that it wasn't by chance that he lived as long as he did. He gave thanks to our Heavenly Father for the opportunity to live, for him and Chris to have the opportunity to raise their children to maturity, to see them graduate, go on missions, and hold his grandchildren. He testified to me many times that it was a miracle and a blessing, not by chance. As an epidemiologist, Howard studied his own case, seeking to understand and he often challenged medical professionals with their diagnosis and strategies. Chris is smiling. It's true. He continued to invest in the idea of being more healthy, never giving in to what history he said he should do. Part of his own diagnosis for living a longer life was to ride a bike more and drink a lot of water. He said it came to him in an answer to his prayers, and right he did. Many years earlier, I remember a time when Ron had the family in his backyard and he told Howard and I about this bike race that he'd heard about where people would ride their bikes for 200 miles through Cache Valley all the way up to Jackson Hole and invited Howard and I to consider. I thought Ron must be out of his mind. So I asked, how many days does that take? And he let us know that it's just a one-day race. He laughed, and we laughed about it and kept it in line over the years and we teased about how we would do that. But Howard and Chris moved back to Cache Valley. He started to train on his bike around the valley in a blacksmith four cannon in Hiram. This was after he started having occasional seizures. He kept training and working hard to improve his health and said it made him happier when he was on his bike. He revealed that he was going to do the Cache Valley Century bike ride. I have to say I didn't know if that was a very good idea, but if you know Howard, he wasn't going to let anyone talk him out of it. So if he was going to do it, I wanted to do that with him. And he's always been there for me and when I needed him. And I wasn't going to let him do his first century by himself. I was so proud of him in setting that goal. We had a great day of riding and he finished 100 miles. I was so proud. And to top it off, he also rode one leg of loadership, the hardest leg in my opinion, from Preston to Montpelier with 25 miles of climbing. So he did it. Mission accomplished. Howard received a calling in the pre-earth life to come, gain a body, serve and love those around him. He accepted a calling to receive the priesthood. To bless the lives of others, he served an honorable mission, testified of Jesus Christ with boldness. He educated himself with knowledge and understanding. He studied countless hours in his profession. He met his bride and continued to ask until she said yes. He and Chris went to the house of the Lord to be sealed for time and all eternity and raised their four beautiful children. taught them the gospel and invited them, invited the Spirit of the Lord into their home. He gave them blessings. They were invited to serve. They each answered that call to serve the Lord with missions and testify of Christ. Howard continues to love each one of you. President Nelson shares a few thoughts to consider. When our turn comes to pass through the doors of death, we cannot say as Paul did. We can say as did Paul, the time of my departure is at hand. I have fought a good fight. I have finished my course. I have kept the faith. We need not look upon death as an enemy. With our full understanding and preparation, faith supplants fear. hope displaces despair. The Lord said, fear not, even unto death, for in this world your joy is not full, but in me your joy is full. He bestowed this gift, peace I leave with you. My peace I give unto you, not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let your heart not be troubled, neither let it be afraid. When we would visit with Howard, he would sometimes only be able to say a few words, but they were enough. He would say, sure love you. I testify that Howard served a wonderful mission. I am so proud of him, and I know his greatest joy was the gospel of Jesus Christ and the eternal nature and blessings of eternal families that could be together forever. I testify that these things in the name of Jesus Christ and someone Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Please read it. So I have my son here sitting with me up on the stand, Dean, and he said, let me see your talk. And I showed it to him, he goes, ask mom. And I go, he goes, can you read fast? And I go, I'll read fast. It's interesting for me to hear everybody talk about my father. Neil's talk and Melinda are actually very similar. Almost worth it. It's kind of weird. But I feel like it shows the character that my dad had. He was the same, when he was younger and he was the same in his older life. Right? I'd like to just tell a few stories or memories that I have growing up with him. And it's hard to pick out just a few memories or the most important lessons that I've learned from him. But I'd like to share a few with you just to give you a little picture of what I saw and my perspective growing up. He was an amazing father and he was my best friend as well. My father was an incredibly bright, smart, intelligent, kind, a big person, driven, and an extremely hard worker. I think that the scout law that he learned growing up and that he taught me to be my brother is this good start to what kind of person he was. At a young age, I remember going through scouts with him by my side and he made sure that Scott and Delam and I all got our Eagle Scouts. I'm terrible at memorization. And he helped me remember the scout law, which I think a few of my dads and qualities are. Scott's trustworthy, loyal, helpful, friendly, period, he's kind of beautiful, cheerful, dirty, great, clean, and reverent. And I remember him helping him go over and over and over that. And we made a routine so I could remember what a scout is in this scout law. In Ohio, we lived in a wonderful place called... ...Dotland. ...Dotland. ...Dotland. And there, I remember he purchased our first home computer. The internet was, you know, I remember sitting at the kitchen table and we would be talking about everything and anything and questions would come up and he would always say, that's a great question. Let's go look it up on the internet. And we would go right then. And it was funny because it seemed like... It was funny because we've been doing that for many years. to what to do unless we and just being with him. One day, we were rolling out the Sunday papers. Out of nowhere, a bolt of lightning hit our driveway. I remember jumping up, my heart pounding, and hanging on to him for a minute or two. The kind of fatherly comfort that he provided is the kind that we talk about in the family population. I remember as a teenager, I'd go into my parents' bedroom, and he would be laying there. And I would lay next to him on the other side of the bed in the dark, and we would talk about things that I was going through, and he would listen and give me advice. I think that one of the things that I missed the past 10 years or so is that, because he would always give the best advice for any situation. To me, he was so wise, and really helped guide me growing up. He was truly invested in my life, and had great concern for the problems and issues that I faced every day at school, work, sports, with girls. He was present in our family. He would go to football, basketball, soccer, dance, and swimming, track and field, camping, fishing, and hiking, and anything else that would be a girl. He always asked me after he'd come home from work to go out and play catch for a little bit. I often didn't want to, but after constant asking and nagging, I would gradually go out and play catch with him. I think that part of the reason I didn't like it was because sometimes he accidentally threw a ball over my head in the back of the running. But looking back now, now that I've been to work for a little bit, I realized and understand that it was a way for him to decompress after work and just be with me, spend time with me. Later in my teens, I enjoyed playing capture with me because it was time for us to talk. I enjoyed playing. While Paul, some of the most memorable moments that I can remember are working hard together with him. In Michigan, we would have millions of leaves falling from God every year, and we would have to clean them up. The leaves were probably worse than shoveling snow, especially when the rain got to the leaves before we did. It made it difficult to remove the leaves for more long. But every, we'd go out with massive tarps and make the leaves and blow the leaves into the tarps and drag them out to the road and dump them there for the city to pick up. We did this every year, almost every year that we finished. We'd get them go out and get a treat or something, but we did work hard and play hard. Dad was constantly learning. He taught me to learn how to learn. He was a great example of that. In our other talks mentioned, in Michigan, we had an unfinished basement. Before he started on the basement, though, we had to cut out e-press windows. This involved digging three 6x6-foot holes by our house, cutting into the foundation of the house and putting in windows. He could have hired a contractor to do this work, but he didn't. He looked online, got some books, and decided that we were going to do it. We recruited some young missionaries from the war and started digging these big holes. After we'd finished digging the holes, a few weeks later, we put in big railroad ties to keep the dirt from going back against the house. The work that was done was better than any contractor could have done. Next came apart to cut into the foundation of the house. Now that I know a little bit more and I have experience in my own home, looking back, I'm not sure that I would have a guess to do what we did on the house. He rented a diamond-lane saw from Home Depot, chalked out the lines exactly, and then we started to cut holes in the cinder block foundation of our home. Through this whole process, and anything else we worked on, I would always remember him saying, always measure twice and cut once. The lines when we would work on anything were always exact. We would always be, I would always be in awe of how exact he was, and exact was the right word for my father. Anyway, back to the story. We started cutting holes into the foundation of the house, and there was so much dust and debris that we couldn't see anything. So, I brought out a huge fan, and I was over his head while he would cut, and sparks were flying everywhere. After a few cuts, we realized we needed a different saw blade because there was a required foundation. So, I took a saw back to Home Depot, we got a bigger diamond blade saw, and then we honed. By the time we got home, I decided to start in the morning because it was too late and getting dark. The next morning we started at it again, fan over his head, the wound blowing the dust and debris out of the hole. After a moment of cutting the cinder block, I tapped him on the shoulder because I smelled something. He stopped cutting me and asked him, Do you smell gas? And during the time that we had stopped the previous evening in the morning, the hole had filled up with gas from a small leak in a pipe. We realized that we had almost blown ourselves up that day. A few of the sayings that I remember him saying growing up was, Sometimes it's better to be lucky than good. Or, I don't know, I would say, Well, that was close. I needed to say close when we count some horses and hand-repeats. And there were some of those close times growing up, but it all worked out. In the end, the gas company came out, fixed the leak. We finished, kind of didn't install it, he got so it goes, and then he started to build the basement. Again, he was not a contractor. He looked up a bunch of information online, got some books, and he went to frame the whole basement, put insulation into the electrical, tape, drywall, and then paint the basement. The only thing he could do was install the carpet. And he did have the sink come out and check his work, so that's all good. In Michigan, we had a lot of big trees in the backyard. Multiple times, Dad had to take down trees before they fell on the house, or the fence, or the neighbor's house. And I'm not sure how none of those trees that we took down didn't damage anything, but we did. One time, in the winter time, a tree had been damaged, it needed to come down, it had too much smell fall on it, and it was lean one way or another. Dad put a ladder up against the tree, and shimmied up the ladder, and then halfway up the tree, and started to top the tree. Halfway through cutting, I heard him run. He slid down the ladder as fast as he could, and dove out of the way, and rolled before the tree smashed down right where he was. And where he had been standing. His determination to get things done sometimes could have been considered unsafe. But his determination was the same in everything that he did in life. If he put his mind to it, it was going to be a doubt. I feel that the most important lesson that he wanted to impress upon me, though, was to listen to the Spirit. He told me many of his experiences when he had listened to the Spirit, and when he did not listen to the Spirit, and the outcomes of each. For many of my questions about life, he would often say, you should pray about it, and listen to the Spirit. What the Spirit tells you, then do it. And then he would also give me his advice as well. Dad was a man of God, and I know that he had a strong testimony of the Book of Mormon, Joseph Smith, the historic gospel, and the people of Jesus Christ. I remember growing up reading the Book of Mormon as a family, using the church's local sites. He would drive me into early morning seminary. He would also take me with what he would still call home teaching. Fulfilling his common teachings and leading the young men was a passion. He wasn't perfect, but I knew that he knew the power that comes from following the direction of the Spirit. I love him dearly, and now that I will see him again because of our Savior, Jesus Christ, who I have lots to talk about. I'd like to say these things in the name of Jesus Christ, amen. Amen. I've known him being a family for... how long has it been? 12 years? Since they moved here. Through young men, young women, the YSA, and other places that we've worked together. The last year and few months, I've gotten to know him much, much better. When Chris asked me to say a few words about the plan of salvation, of course I said yes. Then I realized I didn't know what to say. There's not a lot you can say to Chris and the family directly, other than that we love them. Taking away all of the things that don't matter is the easiest way for me to think about God's plan of happiness. That's the hard part about life. What matters and what really doesn't. One of the great opportunities that I have as a bishop is to interact with our young missionaries. We have quite a few serving, including a few in Africa. Africa is a place, much of it, where literally nothing else matters. There are many people being taught who don't have anything. They don't have utility bills, they don't have cell phones, they don't have jobs. Some of them, they do what they can do. They don't have all of the life confusing things that we all enjoy. Even many people in their country have. When I first hear about these people, I feel sorry for them. Many of them make $300 or $400 a year. But as time has gone on, I actually have some envy for them. Some of them come out of the streets when they see the missionaries walking. Because they want to be taught. It's a simple choice to them. They want to learn about God's plan. When they hear that they can be with their families, with their ancestors, they can't wait to learn more. Of course, many of them have physical, spiritual, emotional limitations. As we all do. As Howard did. I want to testify that we have the same eternal father that they do. His plan is infinite. Infinite means that it covers all of us. There's no one that is not part of that plan. We have the same Savior, our brother Jesus Christ. It's important for him not to only go after the 99, but the one as well. His atonement is infinite. That means it includes all of us. There's no one that it does not include. I once heard someone say, I can't remember who, it was from the podium. They said, if you don't think the Savior's plan includes you, you're wrong. And that's true. We are part of that same great plan. Howard being a no is that plan. He followed that plan. And followed that plan with great attention and focus and veracity. He taught that plan to his family. He modeled it for them. Amulek, a prophet, testified that this life is a time to prepare to meet God. Then he said, the day of this life is the day for men to perform their labors. And I've always been fascinated with that because he calls this life a day. Twice. The same verse. This life is a day. And I want to testify that in God's plan, it is a day. It's a very small period of time. Howard's not gone. In fact, quite contrary. Howard's free. No more restrictions. No more limitations. From his physical. Illness. It was time for him to move to the next phase of God's plan. The next step. In progression. I know this to be true. And I know that if we all live this and follow this, we will receive those same blessings. Promised by our Heavenly Father and our Savior, Jesus Christ. I want to share that in the name of Jesus Christ again. Amen. Amen. Amen. We'd like to thank all those who participated today. We'd like to thank the Fox Ridge War Relief Society and Elders Forum for their dedication and diligence in helping do anything that's needed. As always. As always. They're wonderful. We'll have a closing hymn. Page 152. God be with you till we meet again. And that enclosing prayer offered by Kayla Bingham, daughter-in-law. At that point, we'll invite the Paul Bearers to come forward. Uh, Carl Bingham, Scott Bingham, Dallin Bingham, Dean Bingham, Deacon Bingham, Gary Dickey, Neil Bingham, Gene Godfrey, Bill Kershaw, Dan Davis, Val Nielsen, Skit Cederquist. And the honorary Paul Bearers are Carl W. Bingham, Stephen Bingham, Jeff Gardner, Jake Dickey, Blake Olsen, Reed Hanson, Rob Hardy, Clark Nielsen, Brad Hansaker. We'll be right back here. Amen. Till we meet, till we meet, till we meet, till we meet, yes Jesus King. Till we meet, till we meet again, love you and Jesus, will be together there. I'll be with you till we meet again When our circle's circle found you When his arms are waving round you I'll be with you till we meet again Still we meet again Still we meet again Still we meet again That Jesus is the Lord Still we meet again Still we meet again I'll be with you till we meet again Be with you till we meet again. God, be with you till we meet again. He was better for glory. Strike his strength, he pray before you. God, be with you till we meet again. Till we meet again, till we meet again. Till we meet as Jesus we. Till we meet again, till we meet again. God, be with you till we meet again. God, be with you till we meet again. God, be with you till we meet again. God, be with you till we meet again. God, be with you till we meet again. God, be with you till we meet again. God, be with you till we meet again. I'd like to invite the pallbearers to come this way, please. God, be with you till we meet again. I'll be with you till we meet again. I'll have you follow what's happening here. I'll have you follow what's happening here. I'll have you follow what's happening here. I'll have you follow what's happening here. I'll have you follow what's happening here. I'll have you follow what's happening here. I'll have you follow what's happening here. I'll have you follow what's happening here. I'll have you follow what's happening here.