Master Agribusiness Development open day video 2020/2021
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0iAhbVTztAA
Education
 Welcome to the virtual open day at the Ares University of Applied Sciences and especially welcome to this information video on the Master of Agribusiness Development. My name is Ariane Terhost, I am the program coordinator and in this information video I will tell you everything about our master program. If you have any questions you can ask them during the virtual open day in the chat which we are available for any questions and after the open day you can still ask your questions of course but please direct them to our international office which the email is shown over here. The outline of this information video is pretty straight forward. First I will go into the general aspects of the master program after which I will go more in detail. I will focus on the job opportunities that you might have after the master and I will also include some practical matters in this video. So in our society we live in an environment with increasingly complex challenges and the professional master is profession oriented with a strong connection to real life business. It educates the highly educated professional to solve these challenging problems. Being able to face these problems requires a sound theoretical background next to a methodological basis. And next to that facing these complex challenges also requires a multidisciplinary approach. Well this professional master takes all that into consideration and it is putting them together in a practice oriented learning environment. So we offer a 12 months program which you are going to learn and work at the same time. After the 12 months you will be a master of science. In the master agribusiness development we focus on the agri-food sector in all its aspects. You will acquire detailed knowledge on business development, on strategic management, on food safety, etc. But we also provide you with a broader scope on aspects that are not solely applicable to the agri-food sector such as operations management, research and analysis skills, etc. Your professional development is a center core, a key aspect of this master program. And to provide you with the necessary insights in intercultural communication, your presentation skills, entrepreneurship, etc. We offer an intent training program during our master in which you are going to work on your personal and professional development. Well, gaining insights in theory and in yourself are two aspects of course. But the thing is that you need to implement it or being able to implement all this knowledge, all these insights into practice for it actually to work. So this is where the professional master excels. Because you are working at the master company while learning so you will learn how to implement the knowledge that you gain during this master program directly into real life business situations. We will guide you in that by providing you with specific assignments in which you have to focus on different aspects of the company. At this master company you will work on a personal project in which you need to solve a challenging problem. In the end, the solution that you come up with should be practically applicable to the company. The company should be able to use it. That's our end goal. You will do so by using scientifically sound and innovative research methods. The program itself consists of four phases. It starts with the explorer phase in which you are going to explore the master company, the agri-food sector as a start and your project. After the explorer phase we will go into the manager phase in which you have to show that you are able to manage your project. You are going to write a research proposal and in the research phase you will conduct that research. After the analysis and analyzing the results you will get into the young professional phase in which you have to implement your findings into the real life situation, make your findings practically applicable for your company. During these four phases we cover different aspects within five themes. There are three, let's say more theoretical themes. Those are the themes strategy and innovation, business and organization and research and analysis. These three themes are over-arged by the themes agri- and food business and personal development. In the agri-food business you will focus on the agri-food sector as a whole. You will learn more aspects like food safety but also a lot of excursions to companies are included in this theme in which you are going to talk to CEOs, business developers, etc. and learn how they tackle problems with the knowledge that we offer. The fifth theme is that is the personal development theme in which we are going to focus on the development of yourself as a person. Learn how you react to others, how others react to you and learn how to be able to convince people of your opinions and get working in a team. As I said the project is being conducted in a master company and you will be working at that master company for 12 months. I will give some examples of master companies and we will offer our assistance and our network for you to find such a company. We also find it very important that you show initiative there yourself. It's a professional master, show your professional skills and show that you are able to communicate with others to contact companies and get to new ideas and projects that you can work on. Sometimes it goes easy, sometimes you need some assistance and we will gladly offer that. Making the connection is up to the student which is an important part. The project itself or the company should have a problem that is important but not yet urgent. Meaning that the urgent part meaning that you as a student need to be able to work on it for 12 months and the company should not expect you to get the solutions in 3 months. The master program is 12 months so you need to be able to work on it for 12 months. The project itself should be on a strategic level and this means that the problem should not be on an operational level, let's say comparing product A or B, but on a higher level in which you are going to include the business, supply chains. You have to think a little bit further than just comparing maybe two products or a simple market research. The numbers of companies that students worked are shown here in the slide like Hylthera Koi on Horticulture, OCI Nitrogen, Syngenta, For Farmers with several students at Rabobank and Camposol, OTC Organics, EOSTA and De Heus in Fristand Campina. This is just a mere selection of companies that students worked. A lot of other companies are possible and it's really up to you to find interesting companies which you would say I would like to work there for a year. At the companies you are going to work on projects, we call them the master projects and I will, to give you an idea of what these projects might entail, I am providing you with a couple of examples. These examples, the projects are not limited to these examples of course. The first is, the student of Houson, a large financing company had to make a decision model or decision tree account managers to consult farmers on farm succession. Another example, a lot of students worked on problems like these focusing on international market expansion. So, the selection of countries but also entry strategies are part of that. Another example is to indicate problems in the supply chain. Because sometimes the end product does not meet the quality standards that a company has. It means, meaning that somewhere in the chain something went wrong. Several companies asked our students to work out where in the chain these problems happen and how to solve them. My final example is more a data driven example in which the company wanted to expand their marketing or make it more focused on their customers. So they asked one of our students to make a dynamic customer classification algorithm which they could use for the marketing department to focus their marketing to the right type of customer. In the end, our students are professional, young professionals in the agri-food business with a broad scope in the agri-food business. I will provide you with some examples of possible future jobs. But of course it is not limited to these. So, one example is the business analyst. We have several alumni working as a business analyst or a national or international business developer. Operational managers or international traders. We also have several alumni working as an international trader or working for international trading companies at the moment. The master itself is a professional master, 12 months program, working and learning together. And this all means that it is a challenging program. And a challenging program requires students that are ready to take up this challenge. So that's why we have a selection procedure. And the student profile that we're looking for are students that are internationally oriented in the agri-food business. And students that like to challenge themselves. Because there are points during this master course that will be challenging. You like strategic issues to work on. And you have a hands-on mentality. Because it's not only the science part but it is also implementing it in the real life business. But as I said there is scientifically sound methodology needed. So you should not be afraid of theory. And in the end if you want to combine work and learning together this professional master is particularly suitable for you. Of course we also have the financial part which also can be read on our website of course. But I will outline it nonetheless. For EU students you pay the fee of €2,143. For the Dutch students it means that if you do not have a master degree this is the fee you have to pay. If you already have a master degree you will have to pay the institutional fee of €10,433. The same is true for non-EU residents. We also require a handling fee for well handling for company visit excursions in the introduction week of €650. And we also say that our students are either employed or trainee. Both are possible. And in both cases you will earn a loan of course. And for employment this loan might be higher than for the internship of course. And just so you know both are possible. With this informational video I hope that I have given you a good overview of what this master program entails. And I hope I gave you enough information to make a decision. However, if you still need more information of course as I said at the beginning you are welcome in our chat session during the online open day. Afterwards you are also more than welcome to ask your questions. Please address them to our international office. I will show the link to the email address again over here. Thank you for your attention. Enjoy your day.