FEEDING MY EXOTIC ANIMAL FARM ! (Tour)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0p8vwpF97cw
Pets & Animals
 What is up everyone and welcome back to my channel. I hope all of you guys are having just an absolutely amazing day. And for those of you that are new here, well I'm Jacob and welcome to my crazy jungle. Today we are going around and we are feeding all of my exotic animals. We are going to be feeding sloths and monkeys and lemurs and jaguars and leopards and servals. I've got an action-packed video for you guys today. We actually just finished up filming. It is about to be dark. We've had an extremely long day here at the zoo, but this is what it takes to run a zoo every single day. We're going to try to get to as many animals as possible. Reptiles, birds, everything imaginable in the animal kingdom. So guys, if you want to see us feed all the exotic animals, you're in the right place and we're going to hop right into that. Yep. Alright, are you guys done screaming? Good morning, good morning my beautiful people. We are outside. Yep. Yep, I was wrong, mate. They're still screaming. Ruby! You're starting to make your lemur screams. How are you? Come over here. Come say hi. So, for everyone wondering what those screams were, that was my black and white lemurs, Rue and Rufus, and my red lemur, Ruby. Ruby, good morning. How are you? And good morning to all of you guys. So today we are going to be going around and we are going to be feeding all of the animals that call my jungle home. And right here behind us, we've got all of the food to feed to our primates and our sloth. This is just a couple of the food bowls that we're going to be feeding out today. Because we've also got to feed our big cats. We're talking jaguars and leopards and servals and all kinds of meat. But first, we've got to feed an anteater. We've got to feed our three sloths. And we've got to feed a red lemur, a black and white lemur, a finger monkey. And we're actually missing Theo and Alfie's bowl. All right. I know it's got to be in here somewhere. I think it's in the fridge. And yep, there it is. I knew we were forgetting something in the fridge. And this bowl right here is full of Theo and Alfie's favorite fruits and vegetables. All right. Our bowls are complete. We've now got our capuchin food. We've got all of our morning bowls. So we've got a lot of bowls to feed out. So let's stop talking about it and let's start feeding. So the first animal we are headed in with today is Ruby the red ruffed lemur. Ruby was the closest. So we figured, why don't we just come and say hi to Ruby first? We've got all of our food. But I think she's more interested in snuggling up with her dad. But we've got to keep a hand on this bowl. Because if we don't, she would more than likely knock it right out of our hands. We've got your favorite fruits and vegetables. We've got a grape. Would you like the grape? Oh, that's quite delicious. Now, as much as I would like to introduce Ruby to Rue and Rufus, it is just not possible. Ruby, I mean Rue, is actually going through her breeding cycle. So she would be very aggressive towards another female. I am, sometimes I think I'm allergic to lemurs. Because sometimes they jump on me and I start sneezing like right away. But we've got your food here. There you go. We've got your breakfast and we've got your old dinner that she didn't finish. All right, crazy monkey, go here and show them how you jump. Jump, jump, jump, jump. Come to your father. Show them how you jump. I cannot seem to keep Ruby off of me. She's quite literally obsessed with me. Every time she jumps off, she manages to jump right back on. So Ruby, I got to go. And we got to get out of here because we got to go feed the rest of your family. We've got their food here. They're coming to eat. And they could be distant cousins or long lost brothers and sisters. We have no idea. Getting to watch the black and white lemurs eat has got to be one of my favorite things in the entire world to do. The lemurs are some of the funniest eaters. And we think Rue might be pregnant. So we've got to make sure she's full of good nutrition. We've got to make sure she gets her extra food, extra calories. Because if she is indeed pregnant, she could have two to six babies. And if there is six babies, she's going to need a lot of food to keep these babies healthy. One of the number one questions I get asked is if monkeys have fingernails. Well, you guys see it for yourself. Monkeys have fingernails. And lemurs have a unique comb nail on the back of their foot. So you can see that that nail looks like it's overgrown and stuck up. Well, that nail actually grows like that intentionally. So these lemurs can use it to groom their fur. I'm going to let these crazy lemur kids finish eating their morning food. And now we've got to go and we've got to feed Simone the marmoset. All right. So right now we're here. And now we never know if this little gremlin monkey is indeed actually going to attack us. Sometimes she likes to bite us. But this is what we've got in our bowl. We've got zucchini, sweet potato, carrots, a little blueberry, some special marmoset diet for a special little monkey. This is one of the smallest primates in the world. And a lot of people like to have these guys as pets. Although we never recommend them as pets. But honestly, marmosets actually smell like homeless people. They have a very strange scent. And if they were in your house, it would probably smell like it. Simone. Guys, that's her evil scary laugh. That's the laugh that she makes when she wants to attack us. She's up at my shoulder. She's literally eating right next to my ear. And the ears are one of her favorite places to attack. So all the primates have been fed except Theo and Alfie. And now we have got to feed our mom and dad's laugh. We've got their bowl. We've got biscuits. We've got sweet potato squash. We've got all their favorite treats ready to go. So Suki and Sid are probably going to be in their pots. And this is where in recent time where they've been hanging out. Guys, good morning. Look what we've got. We've got your bowl. So they're going to smell the bowl. They're going to come out. But we're also going to give them a treat right now. All right. We're going to try with some zucchini, which is typically their favorite. All right. Suki wants that. That's the winner today. We've got the zucchini and the peppers. Oh my gosh. Look at it. He's chewing without his hands. I wish I could do that. Look at that. All right. So we're going to put their food right here on this platform. And they're going to be able to smell it. And this is actually going to allow them to get exercise, right? So they're going to be able to climb out of the barrels. They're going to crawl over here. And then they're going to hang upside down and eat their food. And next up, we have got to feed our baby sloth. Good morning, Bean Jr. So we're in with Bean Jr. And as soon as she smelt her food, she started to come out. And we've got one of her favorite treats. It's hard to believe that it's been nearly three years since this baby sloth was born right here at my zoo. This is one big, healthy, ginormous, good-looking baby. One of the softest baby sloths that I've ever felt. And just sloths in general, they're normally pretty coarse. But this baby is pretty soft. I'm pretty sure she's bigger than her parents at this point. She surpassed the parents in size, which is crazy. We pretty much have the same food in here, except it's slightly less since this is just one sloth and the parents are two. And the easiest way to tell what kind of sloth Bean Jr. is is by looking at her front claws. If you look at her front claws here, you can see that there's two fingernails. And by going based off of the front claws is how you always determine what kind of sloth it is. Three-toed sloths have three toes on the front and three toes on the back. Now, although the two-toed sloths have three fingernails on their foot, they're still two-toed sloths and they're much larger than the three-toed. And right as I was heading out, I just found some delicious Hershey Kisses right here on the floor. And by Hershey Kisses, I mean sloth poop. Last video, we were searching for sloth poop. We didn't find any. And now you guys know what sloth poop looks like. And these sloths poop one to two times a week, sometimes once a week, sometimes twice a week. But this right here is what healthy sloth poop looks like. And she goes poop in this spot every single time. So right now, we're going to see a sloth that you guys have not seen in quite a while. I have not shown her. But we are with our grandma sloth, Bean. Bean has got to be the most active, friendliest sloth in the world. She's my favorite sloth. She's extremely nice. And we have got her food here. What's up, Bean? How are you doing? Would you like a zucchini? There you go, pretty girl. So Bean kind of just lives by herself now that she's kind of in her older years. And she loves it. Get the moth. Catch it. Did you catch it? You caught the moth. So we're inside with little Theo and Alfie. And this is like the little monkey room. So this is where they actually get to run around and play and be free. And be absolutely crazy little monkeys. You guys are acting like you've never had a monkey biscuit in your entire life. Here you go. Here. Have a monkey biscuit. Look, do you guys want some monkey biscuits? I'm going to have one. Look, look, look. I'm going to have one. You have one? You have one? There's one. You have one? Here, try this one. Oh, still. Oh, so nice. The little baby with her grandma. So nice. Grandma. Mom. You're a grandma. You're a grandma. Oh my gosh. What happened to the baby? What happened to her? It's Perry the Platypus. He's coming out to get you. Alf. We don't like Perry. All right, Theo. Catch the frog. Three, two, one. You got him. Perry the Platypus. Perry's nice. And next up today, I am going to be feeding all of the parrots. We've got their bowls made, minus the emus. And we've got some pellets. We've got vegetables. We've got broccoli. We've got all their favorite food. So we're going to start with the back Amazons. We've got their bowls. So let's go feed. Good morning. Here's your food, buddy. So we got pirate as food. But we do have to keep our distance. Pirate is not that nice. Sometimes he lets us pet us. But for the most part, he wants to try and attack us and bite us, as you saw right there. What? You want to be my friend? Yeah? Yeah? We could be friends? Okay. Dude, stop trying to bite me. Pirate just comes out of nowhere. He tries to attack my hand. Dude, not cool. And right here, we've got one of our South American caiman lizards. Now, we're not going to get too close. And we're not going to feed them. We already fed them yesterday. And that's what's left. Only a couple of snails. So we just came out to the Encounter Tiki Hut. We got Charlie's food. So Charlie comes out to the Tiki Hut every single day. And he's waiting to meet you guys. So Charlie is the first animal that you guys actually meet. When you come on tour. Charlie loves hanging out in the Tiki Hut. He loves getting to meet you guys. And we've got his food and his water. But I don't think he wants to eat right now. I think he just wants me to pet him. Look at this sweet boy. So we're going to let Charlie finish his breakfast. And now we're going to head over and feed Orkin the anteater. Orkin is eating his insectivore diet. He's also eating some blueberries. He wishes there was ants. But unfortunately, we do not have any ants for him. This is our alien. That's what I like to call him. He's a strange alien. Let's take a look at that tail. This tail is the tail of a possum. It's fully prehensile. So you can fully lift him up by his tail. And he doesn't mind it at all. We've also got these gnarly claws right here. And these claws are going to be used for defense against predators. They're going to be used to dig open termite mounds. And they're going to be used to climb up in the trees. You've got the big primary claw. You've got his little smaller claws on the side. And this guy right here is just the coolest. All right. It's time to feed the emus. And we're coming in. We're getting a big scoop. And each one of these emus is going to get one scoop. And then we're going to probably split the scoop between both of them. That was slightly less of a scoop. We're going to give him a whole scoop. And then we're going to do about this much scoop right here. We're going to do a half a scoop. So right now we're heading into Ghost's lair. Ghost is one of the coolest emus you're ever going to meet. We're just going to swap her food right now for her. She should come over right away. I think that's what's going to happen. So we're just going to kind of give her some space. And she's really not that shy. So she'll come and eat in front of us. But now we're able to come in. We're able to watch her eat the food. And what she's doing is she's grabbing the food. And she's flicking her neck back and flicking it in the back of her throat. What's up, pretty girl? So this is Ghost the emu. Look at those incredible eyes. Look at that beak. She loves hanging out and loves sitting down for us to come and pet her little afro. We love petting her little head. We love petting her feathers. Look underneath. These birds are seriously the coolest. So we've pretty much completed all the morning mammal activities. We fed the parrots, the sloths, the monkeys, all the animals that need to be fed in the morning. And now we are actually going to move on to the carnivores. We've got to feed some snakes. And we are going to be feeding some big cats. We're going to be doing clouded leopards, jaguar servals, all the crazy stuff. So we're going to head to the meat room or the reptile shed. I'm not sure where we're going to head first. So guys, let me know in the comments where should we start. Should we feed some snakes or feed the cats? Fellas, we made it into the reptile room. We have got a large rat. And we have got a hungry red-tailed boa. This girl... Oh! Whoa! That was crazy. She just exploded on us. So we got her a large rat. We're going to close on up. And thank you to Vision Cages for these cages. We would not be able to keep these animals in here without these beautiful enclosures. And we can make sure they're nice and locked and secure so we don't have anyone escaping Vision Cages. The vision is that we're going to have Vision Cages all over the wall. That's the grand vision. And we've also got some more hungry snakes. And we've got some rats to feed them. This crazy monitor would definitely like to eat a rat. But they're just a little too big for her. All right. Here we go. Is she going to strike? And she did in like 2.2 seconds. So now that the snakes are fed, we're going to head to the carnivore room. And we're going to start feeding the cats. We got Mr. Thor. We got Mr. Loki. And these puppies are eating their second meal of the day. They're eating their lunch. All right, guys. So we just made it to the back. And we are getting ready to feed Ollie and Noir the Jaguar. But first, before we can do all of that, we've got a brand new ball for Noir. We got something we call a boomer ball. This is a big cat-proof ball. These balls are extremely tough. Because when you're dealing with a Jaguar, which has the strongest bite of any cat, you need a ball that's pretty strong. So this is his new ball. He's ready for it. He sees it. He wants it. And we've got to get it in. Look at that big old face right there. Look at that big old nose, those big ears, the big eyes. He just wants to sniff my hand. Look at that. How are you doing? I got your favorite scratch spot right there. Good boy. Yeah, I know. The chin scratch. The best in the world. So I think right now I just so happened to find Noir's sweet spot, which is right here on the back of his ears. This is like his favorite little spot to be pet right now on this ear and that ear. That's crazy that even though these cats are big and giant, and he could probably eat me in one second if he wanted to, he's being gentle. Why? I come in here every single day and hang out with this guy. I scratch his ears. He's starting to take interest in the ball. He's sniffing it. He's kind of licking at the little bolt hole right there. So of course he finds the one hole in the entire ball in the first like five minutes of it being in here. That shows you how smart and intelligent these crazy cats are. They've got amazing hearing, sense of smell, and also incredible dexterity and strength with their jaws and their teeth. These guys can grab full-grown caiman, caiman that are bigger than them and way even more than them, and take them down no problem in the jungle. Thankfully for us, he doesn't really want to eat us. He's more interested in eating his ball than he is us. So right now for part of Noir's meal, we have got his favorite treat in the world, which is a baby's bottle filled with milk. We've been giving Noir this bottle since the day he was born, and here he is at nearly 160 pounds. I'd say 160, 165 pounds. He just turned two years old, and he is still loving that bottle. Look at those teeth. We've got some of the largest canines of any big cat, and these guys have the strongest bite of any cat. These guys are absolutely amazing, and he is perfectly trained to lick these bottles. You can see we're just doing one drop of milk at a time, and he is incredibly gentle, and he feels each of those drops coming down on his tongue. He's got those appeals on the end of his tongue, and this jaguar is incredible. To be in the presence of a beast and be able to have this bond and this relationship is only possible through spending thousands of hours with these big cats, coming in here every single day for hours, petting him, hanging out with him, and just being his friend. All right, guys. We just made it over to Ollie's enclosure, and I had some people in the last video ask me and say, Jacob, we have not seen Ollie in a while, so we're here today with Hannah. Hannah's going to be going in with Ollie, and she's going to be trying not to get eaten by him. Hopefully. Fingers crossed, guys. Hopefully. Fingers crossed. And we've got a ball for him. We've got a brand new big cat ball. Big cats require special toys that are big cat proof. If you were to give them a regular toy from PetSmart, they would destroy it. So we have no idea, but Hannah, it's time to go in. One minute, 37 seconds later. Oliver is definitely not interested in his ball, so Jacob actually went to get a frozen fish. But you can see just how beautiful Mr. Ollie Man's coat is, and you can see his clouded leopard spots. Isn't that right? Can we also see your teeth? There we go. There you go, Oliver. Come here, Oliver. Do you want to fish? Look. Get it. Guys, he's munching and crunching on the tail, and I think he's definitely enjoying his fish. Oh my goodness. Do you hear those sounds? Look at those big old chompers chomping down in the yummy fish. Okay, so we've got Cheech and Chong's food, and Cheech and Chong are back living together because China's been in heat. We think she's pregnant, so we actually separated China back to her original home. The boys are reunited, and they are back together, and they are better than ever. And you guys are going to see them for the first time back together in nearly a year. Here they are. Here they are. We got Cheech and Chong. We don't really want to show them the food bowls. These boys can go actually crazy for their food, so we're going to step away. But we've got their lockout, and we've got to get to feeding. All right, so we're going to shift Cheech in, and he is going to his food. It's just as easy as that. That's why we love these lockouts. We can shift the cats. Now, we've got to add a second one because him and Chong will fight over the food. So we've got Chong in a crate. We're going to go feed him. All right, Chong. I thought he was going to jump up, but anyways, Chong has got his food. He's here. We've got chicken. We've got beef. We've got all of his favorite stuff, and he's going to crunch it up in about two seconds. And while that, my friends, is going to end today's episode, I hope all of you guys did enjoy watching today's video. I had so much fun, and I'm also having so much fun on tour pretty much every weekend. We've been having you guys out here to the zoo. You guys have been coming on the tours. We had a packed tour this past weekend. We had encounters. So if you guys have been wanting to come and visit, we have all of that info in the description. You guys can come and visit. We hang out with animals. It is so much fun. So if you guys enjoyed today's video, please make sure to give this video a thumbs up. Comment down below what was your favorite animal from today's video. And if you want to go on more crazy wild animal adventures, well guys, all you have to do is go right now and subscribe below.