Ecosystem Services
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=12p9mGofrLo
People & Blogs
 Ecosystem services are benefits that humans receive from nature, which support our health and well-being. They come in many forms, like food, timber, clean water, recreational experiences, climate regulation, and pollination. We have a good understanding of healthy ecosystems in Alberta, but have limited knowledge about the valuable services they provide. We need to better understand what ecosystem services does the Alberta landscape supply? What are these services worth? And how can we best manage the land in order to enhance its value? It's really hard to convey the services this land provides besides those cattle. There's biodiversity here, there's carbon capture. Each one of these grass plants is a little micro-dam that holds back water from coming down these slopes. All of those things we don't see in terms of ecosystem services, and we sure don't pay for them. All we pay for is the cattle. Somehow we've got to balance out land uses so that the services that they provide, you know, whether those are aesthetic or cultural provisioning or regulatory, all are valued somewhat similarly. If we want to say to landowners that we want to have this larger suite of ecosystem services like water source protection, there's no economic benefit to that landowner. There's a cost being incurred to manage the land in such a way as to produce clean water at the expense of market value services like food production. We can grow far more food on an acre of that yellow canola out there in the background than we can on an acre of this grassland. But we can't absorb as much carbon with that acre of canola. And we probably don't function as effectively in the water cycle. So if we want to tilt that balance and ensure we're getting a wider variety of ecosystem services being produced, the people benefiting from those management actions should be paying the cost. The Alberta Biodiversity Monitoring Institute is working on a series of integrated projects that combine specialized ecological knowledge and expertise that can represent ecosystem service supply and demand across Alberta's landscape. When applied, the new ecosystem service knowledge can provide support for market approaches and land use planning initiatives that promote sustainable outcomes. So what we're trying to do in this research program is develop maps and models that can tell you how much and where ecosystem services are being produced on the landscape across Alberta. Where they're being produced, how much is being produced, and what the value is, where the users are of those ecosystem services. I'm a market driven supporter, but we have an incomplete marketplace right now. So we have some of these services that don't function in the marketplace and others that do. So if we continue on the trajectory with a partial marketplace, I think we'll end up with more Calgary floods, with more Slave Lake fires, you know, drying out of the landscape. And probably not a very pretty place in a hundred years. If we start to value these things, reward the production of some of these services through a marketplace or whatever instrument we can come up with that provides an incentive for land use that produces ecosystem services like biodiversity, carbon, water, then I think we'll rebalance things. Alberta's grown exponentially over the last 10, 20, 30, however many years, and it's going to continue to do so in the future. So to understand and to be able to effectively make Alberta livable and maintain our standard of living for all those new people coming to Alberta, we need to be able to manage the land in such a way that it can provide those things and this project will help provide that information. We need to be able to provide that information.