Agroecology: Key Principles Marc-André Selosse
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=16-Oa9cXmwc
People & Blogs
 Terima kasih telah menonton Terima kasih telah menonton Terima kasih telah menonton Terima kasih telah menonton Terima kasih telah menonton Terima kasih telah menonton Terima kasih telah menonton Terima kasih telah menonton Terima kasih telah menonton Terima kasih telah menonton Terima kasih telah menonton Terima kasih telah menonton Terima kasih telah menonton Terima kasih telah menonton Terima kasih telah menonton Terima kasih telah menonton Terima kasih telah menonton Terima kasih telah menonton Terima kasih telah menonton Terima kasih telah menonton Terima kasih telah menonton Terima kasih telah menonton TerimaFat dan eniku Terima kasih telah menonton Terima kasih telah menonton Terima menonton tendongе sangat berukuran malamlin G帶 3 orang, dengananya36 orang tidak ia mengundang, menulis ini juga agar kitaume Сам eAtom ini atau itul Videити beraskan Network Ada kisah kedatakmada di dim Shapes ese ln cukup clicit Tapi tidak ada tampak namanya Terus beragama dari organisasi Anda sama ada beberapa fen những haram GPU Erasmus hati sudah ada seperti parasitism, mutual aid, dan competition. In fact, in diversity, there is also the diversity of species assemblages, the diversity of ecosystems, the diversity of interactions between species. Just as the diversity of interactions of the parts of a car, which are also a part of the car, I mean, the wheels have a fairly obvious connection to the engine, that is part of the car. Well, the connections between species are part of biodiversity. So, you see, biodiversity is more than just a catalogue of species. It's the diversity within these species, and the diversity of how these species interconnect with each other. So, the efficiency of agriculture, and you were right to say that conventional agriculture, so let's say it has an efficiency, and the first, the way we all benefit from it, as you say, is when we all eat to our fill in quantity, which has not always been the case in human history, and it is still not the case for all of humanity. So, that agriculture, it has quantitatively fulfilled its contract. It fulfills it with short-term efficiency, precisely by denying biodiversity. And not so much by denying species biodiversity, because on our plates there are plenty of species, still, it must be said, no, by linking diversity within species, that is, by creating lineages that work very well in the short term, but ultimately make us lose the biological diversity of the species and the gene reserves that could serve us tomorrow. So, in a way, this agriculture has denied the fraction of biodiversity, ah, that is intraspecific. And then, by creating monospecific fields, that is, with a single target species and weeding out everything else, it has denied the diversity of species assembly. You see that ultimately the problem of agriculture and biodiversity is perhaps less the problem of species diversity than the problem of intraspecific diversity, genetic diversity, which peasant seeds, for example, aim to promote a bit more with a logic whose sustainability can be debated. Also, but which is still more responsible in terms of raising awareness of this diversity, and then also a diversity in the assembly of species that we need to rediscover. Because, in fact, when we look at the long term, we realize that ecosystems are not made to... They have never functioned with just one species. So, there are lots of functions that start to go haywire when we have only one species in a field. And so we need, today as well, to reintroduce the diversity of assembly. And this program is implemented in many ways. Agroforestry, for example, is a way to introduce more species into a field, having mixed crops. Mixtures, for example, cereals and legumes, is also a way to rediscover the path of assembly. And then, to conclude, of course, there is all the temporal diversity, which involves having crops into crops that do not leave the soil bare between two crops. Objectives, in short, this diversity of spatial and temporal assembly, this complexity of population with multiple interacting species. That is to say, the super-specific level of biodiversity also needs to be rediscovered. And so, truly, biodiversity is something that unfolds within the species, in the number of species, and in the relationships between species. and it's all these... That's it. That's it. biodiversity scales that we need to remobilize in agriculture. I'll just give you an example. You know, Lily, grasses have ways to fight against plants that compete with them by emitting tannins, quite specific tannins, hydroxynamic acids, into the soil. It's quite effective. They weed around themselves, and this logic, this logic they have in relation to other plants was completely forgotten in domestication, because artificially, we remove the weeds, so we no longer select our plants to clear the area around their roots. So, we just lost a tool, which was a tool for interspecific relationships, and that we lost in domestication, because we lost in domestication the interspecific diversity, and there, you see the link between interspecific diversity and the diversity of interspecific relationships. In fact, we have enormous levers to take back control of, and levers that will undoubtedly ensure stronger sustainability for our agricultural ecosystems by taking back control of the different scales of biodiversity, of biodiversity.