Dad's Opinion on Trumps Tariffs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1IqD_zJT_vQ
People & Blogs
 It's been about 48 hours now and it has never stopped raining. It never really stormed. It just never really stops. We're up to around 3 inches of rain now in the last 48 hours. Kind of a gut punch after having 90 degree heat last weekend for 3-4 days in a row, the way the corn exploded. Now we've got lows in the 30s the last several nights now with cold rains. It's going to slow everything down a lot, that's for sure. I guess there isn't really much that I can do besides watch it, go to lunch. You guys have heard me talk about the Upside app before. That's the app that gets you real cash back on essential purchases you're going to make anyway, like gas or diesel or grocery stores, restaurants, things like that. Well luckily that app is even waterproof so you can use it without it, you know, in the rain. You might get wet but the app is still going to work just fine. Kind of like this cornfield. There are actually over 100,000 different gas stations and grocery stores and restaurants on the app. Including my local gas stations here. And it's real cash back. There's not any kind of confusing like rewards or points or credits or anything like that. For something like this you just pull up to your local friendly diesel pump. In my case. Do what I need to do. And then I just tell the app that hey, I made a purchase here today. Confirm my linked card. And I'm done. It all happens in the background now. Top earners are earning as much as $300 every single month. So to find out how much you could earn, just use the link down in the description below. Download the Upside app and use the code FARMER for an extra 25 cents back per every gallon of gas on your first tank of gas. Or just scan the QR code right here to claim the offer. And then you will be on your way to earning cash back the same way I have been. Afternoon puppy dogs. And a beautiful one it is. After three straight days of just constant rain and wind and cold and gloominess. We finally got us a bluebird day. It's only, I don't, it's probably 60 degrees right now. Maybe, maybe upper 50s. Either way, it feels nice for us right now. Planting is over. We got everything in the ground. Probably a little bit earlier than normal. We finished up right before these last rains hit. Everybody always thinks once planting is in, what do you really do? You just kind of let the crops grow, right? We go directly into spraying right away. So we would have been spraying a few days ago. As I was saying, we go right into corn spraying right away. So we've got to pre-emerge on our soybeans. So they will hold and stay clean for a little while. But the corn needs to be sprayed. This is always a little nerve-wracking getting stuff up that high. You can probably see it pretty well. Pretty good, yeah. You think if the hose is going to work there? Oh. I think, level it out a little bit, but I think it'll be best. You don't need to go front or back more? I would say go front more if you can. But then you've got to come in this way a foot yet, too. There you go. Just level it out there. Okay, now raise it up and come ahead four inches. It's nice this trailer can fit a lot of products. So we can put two down here because we've got an extra pump with this new trailer. Two down there. Two gravity feed ones up there. And two up there. So we can do six mini totes here. Plus whatever we want to put in here. We don't currently need that much space for that many products right now, but close. If you're only putting one down here, we may as well push it in a ways, huh? That's what I think, yeah. Yeah. I'll bring the first back. So this is just our AMS and adjuvant farmer's first product here. This is an FBN product. We're going to have to build ourselves a hose to go from here to this pump. That'll be easy. One of these hoses then will run from that pump, from that product. I'm just thinking out loud. I hope you guys don't mind. Just tight enough to mess up the hose clamp, so that should hold. It gets a weird... We've got a 90 on each end, which I think is what it needs to be. Should I just run it like this? Well, that's not going to... It's not going to... Well, it's going to be harder to pump out if I'm putting it uphill and it gets empty. What else do you do? There's not really another option. There's got to be a 90 on each end. Yeah, and if you tip it down this way... That should be able to pump that liquid up through that anyway. It should. You're still... You can do that, but then you're still going to end up on this end. I was thinking, what if we put it this way around? Will that work? Will we be able to get that latched on there? These things are a pain no matter how you do them. Yeah, I don't know why they... But what's the point in that? Then it would lay out like this. And go to that. Oh, I see what you're saying. Ah. I don't know if I... That's less handy for going down the road then all the time. It is. I kind of... I like that better than going up in the air. Like this? Yeah, I do. If I build it about there? Yeah. And we can still go up in the air if we want to. Okay. Okay. Okay. Yeah, I don't know how we had it last year. Yeah, it wasn't like this. No. Oh. Boy, this is the messiest spray can ever. Oh, yeah? It pisses out in every direction. It really goes on there fairly nice though. Yeah. Yeah. We've got a couple of these that we need to install into these inductors just because this trailer's brand new. We haven't had it all hooked up and connected to stuff yet so we haven't put any products in these inductors yet. So, a little more plumbing to do to get everything ready. Yeah. We also sold a bunch of soybeans and so we're going to have a couple of trucks come tonight and actually load out. We've seen us do this in the past where we load the grain cart up first just because it's so much quicker than... Because those trucks come all hours of the day and it's just quicker to have a grain cart loaded up for them. So, there you go for the naysayers that think we'll never sell any more crop because of the tariffs and nobody's going to want any of the grain that's in those bins. Well, tell the markets that. We just sold a bunch of both. I'm going to give you the chance to explain to people how we sold soybeans in this kind of market when there's tariffs and we're never going to have a market ever again. Well, these aren't really affected by the tariffs because they're going down to be processed in the meal for the livestock. Oh, well that's weird. So, people are willing to buy them. And our corn is going to Mexico. We're hauling it to go under the elevator. They're loading it in trains and that is going to Mexico. So, there's still sales on the books and Mexico said they aren't going to retaliate on anything with tariffs from what I've heard. So, Mexico's are actually our number one market for grain. Are you having a hard time sleeping at night because we had to sell it for so cheap compared to what we thought we would? It hasn't seemed to make any difference that I can tell at all in the markets. There you go. Now, it's not just my perspective. You can see Dad's perspective as well. To clarify on the Mexico thing, so Mexico has been our number one importer of our corn the last few years. Not our grain in general, but our corn and that's what he was saying. Well, this thing's loading. I'm going to climb up the big bin here. This big guy. The big, big boy. We are going to be installing a new system from essentially Sukup. So, the company is called Sink, which is a Sukup company. And we're going to be installing that into here. But what they're going to do is run cables around the ceiling that will go down through the grain. So, the grain will have cables running through it after we empty it and refill it. And we'll be able to see all kinds of information on that grain. So, it's a way to monitor the grain in our bins. For right now, we're only going to do this one big bin. Eventually, we'll probably do some more bins. But for right now, we're going to start with just this guy. I guess I should explain then why I've got to climb it. Because we need it to be full of grain, it's much easier for the bin crew to get in there, walk on top of the grain, and install the whatever they are that hang from the ceiling to support those cables. It's down about a ring, so I'm hanging inside the hatch right now. But we want to cone this thing up so they can get up there and do what they've got to do. I don't love climbing bins, but whenever I do, I enjoy the view for a minute. That fills that up. That thing is full now, so we'll get a truck in here and load him out and probably reload that thing again tonight. It's 5.30, so Dad's going to take off and probably go grill himself some steaks. Or vegan burgers. I don't know. Whatever he wants. He's not going to want vegan burgers. I saw the FedEx truck swing by and drop off a heavy package. And I know I had a winch coming. So I bet I got a winch on the front porch. This new winch has absolutely nothing to do with farming. You like that, sunshine cat? Not you. I wasn't talking to you. Jeez. Yeah, that winch is for race car stuff. Let's check the old chickens. Look at how big they're getting. Jeez. Monsters. They're kind of lazy, though. Not a one of them has given me an egg yet. I'm going to probably build them a chicken coop here in the next couple of days. Because they're about ready to get out of that tote. Thank you guys for watching. If you're interested, you can also go follow me on Pepperbox. We're going to have some exclusives over there. I am going to, I believe, post some of the podcast stuff we did with the Farm for Profit guys a month ago. Where Randy the Master Pipe Layer and I went down to Iowa and talked to those guys. They ended up losing their TikTok. Not because of that. But, but just, there was a lot of shenanigans. So that's going to be an exclusive over on Pepperbox. There's a link down below for that. We're also going to do some racing here this weekend. And, uh, got a new camera guy that's going to be coming with us. So hopefully we can get some consistency going again over on that channel, over on the Between the Rows channel. But, thank you guys for watching. See you in the next one. Bye. All right.