Veganic Gardeners Question Time 25th June 2025
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1MCyrRFZvBg
Education
 Growing Nature Academy No need to panic Kinds me and rules I'll surround the planets Growing Nature Academy A brighter future For you and me Growing Nature Academy A greener future For you and me A brighter future For you and me Thank you Growing Nature Academy Welcome to Veganic Gardeners Question Time And what a joyful uplifting Bit of music that was Even if I say so myself Wow yes indeed We've got a great show for you today With an international panel And questions coming in From all over the world as well And don't forget If you're watching this live You can send your questions in Now the Vegan Organic Network Since 1996 Has been promoting A wonderful way To bring about abundance Health and healing For us Animals And the planet We want clean rivers We want clean oceans We want healthy soil We want healthy food And healthy people For everyone And you can do it In a veganic way Well I tell you what We have got a fantastic show today We really do Vegan Organic Network Is a wonderful way To connect people Like many of our panelists Are doing incredible work And we're bringing together This knowledge It's a network Of like-minded people And you can get on board as well Go to Veganorganic.net The fantastic website Of the Vegan Organic Network And wonderful initiatives Such as the Von Map You can join it As a producer As a grower Or just as a supporter You might want your food Growing without chemical inputs Or animal inputs Like I do Like our panel do And like increasingly Millions of people do as well There's wonderful other initiatives Like the Growing Nature Academy That you just heard That song from See how happy those kids were Growing food veganically Don't panic It's veganic as we say Well I tell you what Enough from me Giles Bryant Your host today I'd like to introduce Some fantastic members Of our panel Joining us as I say From around the world And first up Dear friend of the show It's Meg Kelly Now Meg is an avid Veganic gardener She co-founded The Veganic Agricultural Network In 2008 And teaches the Learn Veganic Online gardening course Which is brilliant Meg organises The Veganic Summit Which is a free Three day online event Thousands of people Have joined it And runs the incredible Learn Veganic Which is a great range Of free Veganic Resources Meg how are you? I'm doing great Giles How are you today? Oh absolutely fantastic I'm feeling good I'll tell you what We've got some tricky questions And I was so pleased When I heard that you I mean just tell the viewers A little bit about the journey How you've been here today Well we had a big storm In Canada a couple of nights ago So I lost my electricity And wasn't sure Whether I'd be able To be here today But luckily our electricity Came back And I'm happy to be here And the gardens Definitely got a major Watering during that storm Luckily the plants Held up pretty well Even with the high winds Brilliant And how are things At Learn Veganic? Things are going great At Learn Veganic We're just getting things ready For our next Veganic Summit That's going to be happening Next November And we also have Our spring and summer session Of the Learn Veganic course That people are still Welcome to sign up for At LearnVeganic.com Yeah it is a fantastic course Everyone And do check out The amazing resources That Meg and the team Have put together So useful And we're going to get into Some of your fantastic knowledge So thank you Meg We'll hear from you In a minute And next up Our next panelist Again Great friend of the show When I got Got sent some of these questions And I thought We're not going to need Pierce on for this You know We're going to need Meg on for this one Pierce Warren Is a conservationist A filmmaker An author And a very keen grower Of organic fruit and veg The founder of WildEye The International School Of Wildlife Filmmaking And the author Of many many fantastic books Including How to store Your garden produce And of course The co-author Of The Vegan Cook And Gardener Is piercewarren.co.uk And here he is The man himself Pierce how you doing? Yeah I'm doing good thanks And this is my absolute Favourite time of the year Because now when I go out Into the garden There are so many things To choose from So when it comes to Wondering what I'm going to have For my dinner Each evening I'm not looking in the freezer Or anything like that I'm just looking in the garden Getting a selection of things And then there are so many Different things you can do With that It's great So only half an hour ago I was eating things Picked straight from the garden Brilliant It's just absolutely amazing You know the Vegan Organic Network Recently we were at the Sacred Earth Gathering Near Glastonbury At the Crops Not Shops Initiative And what an amazing idea that is Let's have crops Rather than shops Owned by hedge funds And big multinationals You know let's actually Let's actually grow it ourselves And you are a living embodiment And may I say Pierce You're looking fantastic I think you're getting younger Well it's all that fresh produce And working outdoors That does it Absolutely It is the route To a healthy Wonderful life Well Thank you Pierce We're going to hear back From you in a minute When these questions come up Now maestro I'm not sure Did Keith Is Keith online Because our dear friend Keith Robertson From Scotland From Bonnie Scotland The Isle of Arran there As Meg was saying You know Sometimes The greatest ideas That we have The best laid plans Of mice and men Go a little awry With technical problems So I presume that Keith isn't with us yet But he will Hopefully he'll be with us soon Keith Robertson I just want to Just give Keith A little promo Anyway It's veganherbal.com Keith is the founder Of the Scottish School Of herbal medicine At the island of Arran It's established In the year 2000 And it's run On veganic principles And organic philosophy It's a vegan retreat centre Dedicated to researching Planetary health Herbal treatments Diet Cooking Raw food And hands on Green living So hopefully Keith will be with us But maybe he's had A few technical problems Does happen from time to time So in the meantime It's going to be The three musketeers Of myself Megan Pierce I think Trying to answer Some of these Fantastic questions So Dan Dan Graham Is the maestro He is the man Behind the scenes Of course He runs the Vegan Organic Network A hero to us all Thank you Dan And we have got Some fantastic questions And as Dan mentioned If you're watching this live You can send your questions in And we'll do our best To answer them Over to you maestro What's the first question We've got Here we go Well this is from Alex And Alex says Well most of my local growers Are using manure hotbeds I'm trying to work out A vegan alternative Are there solar powered options Or is it just about Controlling compost He's going on a small plot And he's also got A polytunnel So what advice have we got Panel for Alex Rather than the old school method Of using the old hotbed With the old manure Now I'm personally A fan of cold composting myself So I don't have As much experience With hot composting I enjoy cold composting Because we don't have To do as much management We don't have to Turn it as much We can just be patient And it will break down But if you would like To do hotter composting One thing that you can do Is you can increase The amount of nitrogen Rich materials In your compost But if you do that You're going to have to Keep a close eye On the temperature And make sure that You're turning more regularly Because one thing That can happen When your compost Gets really hot Is because you've got All of those microorganisms With all of that activity They can end up Using up the oxygen That's in the pile And if they use up All the oxygen Your pile can go anaerobic And we don't want An anaerobic pile So that's my main Recommendation Is that if you are Doing hot composting Just increase Your nitrogen rich materials Compared to your usual amounts Make sure that you're Turning it a lot Keep an eye on that temperature And that should help But I'll let Pierce Jump in here Because maybe Pierce Has some other Tips and tricks Yeah well Alex Mentions having a polytunnel And asks if there are Any other ways Of using heat From the sun For example And what I'd like To just suggest Is to use A climate battery Now some years ago I bought this book Which is called The Forest Garden Greenhouse By Jerome Ozentowski And in it He describes How he uses So-called climate batteries To regulate the temperature Of polytunnels And greenhouses And things like that Basically what you do Is you bury Deep into the soil Underneath the Polytunnel A wide pipe Just full of air And The ends of the pipe Come up to the surface At either end Of the polytunnel And then you have An air fan Just a simple Air fan That will run off A little Solar Charged Battery And Basically what happens Is this fan Is continuously going 24 hours a day So during the day When the sun Is heating up The polytunnel The fan Will drive That warm air Through this Long pipe Which snakes Around under the soil Of the polytunnel And it will warm That soil And then during The night When it's colder The soil Which is now Warmed from the day Will continue To heat the air In that Pipe And the Little air fan Will then push Warmer air Back into the Polytunnel So it stops It stops it Overheating During the day And it keeps It warm During the night Such a simple Idea And doesn't Use any Fuel Because it's The only thing That needs to Have any energy Is this Little Low powered Fan Which can run Off a battery So it's a great Way of regulating Temperature And he describes It in great Detail in this Book So I really Recommend this Book And also He shows Pictures of it For example Where people Are growing Tropical Food In their Greenhouse While there's Snow on the Ground Outside It's that Effective So that's That's my Tip for the Day Awesome That is Good So Alex There we Go Dig yourself A pipe My friend Maestro What do We have Next Now This is Namratha From Bangalore In India And a Lovely lady Who's contacted Us recently She's got a Large farm And in the Past we've Had a Massive Problem With slugs And snails And they Had to use Chemical Or they Decided to Use chemical Chalk like Pellets They collected Five to Seven kilos Per day Of the Dead Slugs That they Disposed Of Then they Had to Borrow Some chickens To solve The problem What can We do Now that They're a Veganic Farm And Namratha Is on The Von map So do Check out The The project There We often Get We often Get these Questions Don't we Guys About slugs But five To seven Kilos In a Night I mean I don't Like to Kill any Of god's Creatures But I You know They Obviously Had to What could They do Guys Oh Sorry Go ahead Yeah Over to You Oh Okay Great Yeah It's a Tough One Because This Is one Of The Main Things That People Struggle With Whether Their Garden Is Veganic Or Not Veganic If We Live In Climates Especially Climates That Are A Little Bit More Humid Slugs Can Be A Frequent Problem One Thing That I Found Improved In My Garden Is I Actually Used To Have Mulches Like Leaves And Straw And Things Like That And I Found Those Slugs Really Liked To Live In Those Environments When I Switched Over To Having A Bit More Of A Green Cover In My Garden Of Young Green Plants I Had Less Problems With Slugs Because They Didn't Have As Many Places To Live And They Had A Lot More Things To Eat On My End I Did That By Accident One Year I Had A Whole Bunch Of Brassica Plants That Went To Seed I Threw The Seeds Everywhere The Next Spring There Is This Carpet Of Brassica Plants In My Garden But I Realized That By Having A Bit More Of A Living Mulch Rather Than I Plant Residues As Mulch I Think The Slugs Had A More Things To Munch On And They Were More Likely To Leave My Plants Alone A Couple Of Other Things That I Just Mention I Mean Of Course With That Method You Can Do It In A Much More Intentional Way With A Cover Crop That Will Serve Other Purposes But If You're Going To Be Handpicking Slugs They Really Love To Come Out At Night So If You Go Out With A Headlamp You A Way To Get Them To Go Into One Place Where You Can Move That Wooden Board Away The Next Morning And You Can Look Into Sacrificial Plants There Some Things Like Hostas That They Like To Eat That You Might Be To Kind Of Put In One Area And Hope That They Go Over There A Little Bit More And I Also Mention That If You Having Slug Issues It It Best To Avoid Watering At Night Often Times People Recommend Watering At Night For The Sake Of The Plants Because If You Water At Night There Is Going To Be A Lot Less Evaporation Of The Water So That Water Is Going To Go Down Deeper Into The Soil And Water Your Plants Better And And The Water Is Really Going To Be More Efficiently But When The Soil Moist At Night Slugs Really Like That And They Really Just Like Coming Out Into That Environment So If You're Having Issues And You Water I'd Suggest Watering In The Morning So By The Time The Evening Comes Around Your Soil Is Dry Wonderful So Pierce Obviously Our Friend From India Has Got You Know I Just Got A Garden She Seems To Have A Farm And Five To Seven Kg Per Night Of The Little Beggars I Mean Any Other Any Other Suggestions About Slugs Just For Her Or Just Generally Yeah I Mean You Know If She Says She's Picking Several Kgs Of Slugs And Snails Every Morning Dead Ones So As Meg Says You May As Well Be Collecting That Many In The Evening But Of Live Ones They Go At Least 100 Meters Away Before You Release Them Because They Do Have Some Sort Of Homing Capability And They Will Come Back If You Just Chuck Them Over The Fence The Other Thing Of Course Is To Make Sure That You're Attracting Wildlife That So Here In The UK It's Great To Have Things Like Hedgehogs And Slow Worms Various Amphibians Things Like That And In India Yeah Since We've Put Our Pond In It's Definitely Helped I Would Say Definitely Helped With The Toads Although I've Never Seen A Toad Eat To Slug And I Don't Want To Maestro Moving On Swiftly Please What Is Next Oh It's Stephen From Somerset Well We've Just Had The Summer Solstice And Stephen Is He Too Late To Put Any Vegetables In What Can He Lettuces Salad Leaves Chinese Cabbage Pak Choi Pak Choi You Can Sow Through July And August Turnips Grow Quickly Spring Onions All Sorts Of Things Like That And Even Runner Beans You Can Sow Runner Bean Seeds Now And Still Get A Late Crop Of Those So Yeah Absolutely Plenty Still To Do What About You Meg What Would You Be Telling Stephen To Plant Yeah I Would Suggest Looking At The Seed Packages And Looking At The Days To Maturity So As Pierce Mentioned I Mean You Can Still Get Some Plants That Are Already Well Established But We Are Getting Pretty Late In The Season If You Want To Get A Harvest Of Something Like Tomatoes Or Peppers So If You Find Some That Are Well Established At The Garden Center Maybe You Could Still Get Them In The Ground Now But You Can't Really Go Much Later Than Now And Even At The Moment It Would Be A Little Bit Limit For Sure But There Some Plants Like As Pierce Was Mentioning Things Like Spinach And Radish They Can Have Days To Maturity Like 40 Days Or Something Like That And Often With Things Like Beans And Peas And Spinach And Lettuce And Radish And Carrots Often We Want To Be Planting Them In Succession Every Two Or Three Weeks Because If We Plant Them All At Once The First At The First Point In The Season When We're Able To Plant Them Then We Get One Big Harvest All At Once And Then Sometimes The Harvest Is Over So It's Just Good Practice To Be Planting Some Of These Things In Succession That And Some Of These Plants You Can Even Be Planting Until August I Mean You Can Plant Something Like Baby Bok Choy Little Tat Soy Leaves Even Spinach And Things Like That In August To Be Getting A Fall Harvest From Them So Yeah There's Lots Of Things You Can Plant You Just Need To Make Sure You Not Trying To Do Anything Too Ambitious I Wouldn't Do Anything Like You Know Cantaloupe Or Aubergines At This Time Of The Season Because It's Getting A Little Bit Late For Them To Produce Wonderful Wonderful Advice So Let's Keep Going We We Had Some Lettuce In The Greenhouse And It Just Came Up Early And We Were Eating That Fresh Lettuce For Weeks And I Said To The Old Wife We Got To Get Some More In You Know In The Garden That We Are Having For Free Maestro Next Question Please It's Diana In Basingstoke I Was Given Loads Of Cucumber And Courgette Plants Which Are Doing Really Well I'm Going To Have A Glut I'll Give Some Away But Do Have Any Advice About Preserving The Summer's Abundance Well I Tell You What Ladies And Gentlemen I've Just Ordered A Book Which I'm How To Store Your Garden Produce By Piers Warren Piers First Of All My Friend What Can Diana Do Well Yeah Thanks Thanks For The Plug Funnily Enough Here It Is A New Edition Of How To Store Your Garden Produce And That That's Just Come Out This Year And Although The The Title Was First Produced Years Ago This Is A Brand New Edition And It's Full Colour Photos Throughout With Various Recipes And Techniques For Just About Everything You're Going To Grow In Your Garden Or Allotment So It Includes Cucumbers And Courgettes Of Course And I Happen To Have A Glut Of Both Of Those Myself In Fact I've Been Eating Cucumbers From The Greenhouse Since May Wow What A Good Start We We've Had To The Yeah You Just Happen To Pick Two Of The Things Which Are Quite Hard To Store Because Of Their High Water Content And Of Cucumber You Wouldn't Bother Freezing It Or Anything Like That Because It Would Just Turn To Mush But My Suggestions For Cucumber Are First Of You Can Make Cucumber Jam Which I Made Myself Last Year And It's Very Nice You Can Also Pickle Cucumbers And Like Gherkins If You Pick Them Small You Can Pickle Them Whole And Use Them Exactly The Same Way You Would Use A Gherkin Or If They're Large Ones You Can Slice Them And Then Pickle Them And As For Courgettes Again You Can Pickle Them In The Same Way You Can Freeze Courgettes They Go A Little Bit Mushy But If You Can Throw Them In A Stew Or Something Like That It's Fine So I Would Slice A Courgette Quite Thickly Blanch It For One Minute And And Then Freeze But Also You Can Use Courgettes In Other Recipes Chutneys For Another Way Of Preserving It And You Can Even Let Some Of Them Grow Go Bigger More Marrow Sized And Then Use The Flesh In All Sorts Of Other Things Like Chutneys And Accompaniments To Various Jams For Example You Can Make A Very Nice Marrow And Apple Jam So All Those Things I've Just Mentioned All The Recipes Are In This Book Just To Say If You Do Bear In Mind That The Earlier Version Is Still For Sale Because They've Still Got Some Copies Left So Just Look Out For The Green Cover Because The Earlier Version Doesn't Have All The Nice Photos And Doesn't Have The Updated Text So Wonderful Yeah Superb So Just On A Slightly Different Topic What Would Be Your Favorite Thing To You Know If You Were Going To Do Something To To Cucumbers Or Courgettes Oh We Freeze So Many Things On Our End You Know Especially Things Like Berries From Our Garden That's Our Main Go To For Things Like Berries And Cherry Tomatoes Is Throwing Them In The Freezer And Being Done With It We Also Have Definitely We Turn Our Kale Into Kale Chips But We Also Do Some Fermenting So As Pierce Was Mentioning Just Fermenting Cucumbers Is One Of The Best Ways That You Can Store Them And You Actually End Up Getting Some Extra Nutritional Value One Thing I Want To To To Kind Of Not On The Storage Side Of Things Is Just Looking For New Creative Recipes That You Can Try With Those Cucumbers And Zucchini Courgettes When They're In Season I Think Oftentimes When We Have A Glut We Have Our One Or Two Favorite Go To Recipes With Those Plants I Just Had A Couple Cucumbers That Were Going A Bit Funky And I Didn't Want To Eat Them Raw I Just Threw Them Into Some Tacos And I Fried Them Up With All The Veggies Like Tomatoes And They Go Fine In There One Thing I Like To Do With Courgettes Is To Slice Them Noodles In Raw Lasagna So I Would Just Say To When You Got You Know A Big Harvest Of Something Just Go Online And Look For 50 Vegan Recipes With Courgette And You Can End Up Finding Some Really Interesting Stuff That We Don't Typically Use Them For Beautiful And Also The Power Of Sharing You Know We Were At The Crops Not Shops And They Growing A Massive Amount Of Food There This Incredible Vegan Project And They Give Half Of It Away To The Poor People To The People Without Fresh Food You Know So They're Growing A Massive Amount And They're Selling It To Keep The Project Going And Giving It Away We Just Had A Question Come Up There From Dennis We Just Addressed This Very Quickly He Says He's In The West Of Ireland Is It Too Late To Plant Carrots And Peas I Mean There We Go Thank You Is It Too Late To Plant Outdoor Carrots And Peas I'm Just Going To Say Do It Overdue Panel Just A Quick One I'm Also Going To Say Do It Again You Might Want To Take A Look At How Long To Harvest On Those Seed Packages Some Peas Will Be 20 Days Quicker Than Certain Other Peas So You Might Want To Look At That But The Nice Thing About Peas And Carrots Is They're Both Relatively Cool Cold Tolerant So If You Start Getting Cooler Temperatures In September They're Probably Going To Fine With That One Of The Bigger Concerns Is How Well They're Going To Do Just Starting Out The Very Beginning Of Their Life In The Heat Of July And That Might Be More Of A Challenge To Them So You Might Want To Look At The Temperatures Up Ahead Especially With Those Peas You Might Want To Consider If There's An Area Of Your Garden That Actually Is A Little Bit Cooler Than Other Are So Sometimes We Have Certain Microclimates In Our Gardens For Example We Might Have A Brick Wall That's Radiating A Heat Well That's A Great Place To Put You Know Something Like Tomato Plants Nearby Because They'll Take Advantage Of That Heat Peas Like Things A Little Bit Cooler So That's Why They're Often Grown In The Spring Time So If You're Trying Them In The Summer I Would Just See Is There A Slightly Cooler Part Of Your Yard That You Might Be To Grow Them In They Can Also Handle A Bit Of Shade I Wouldn't Go Full Shade With Them But They Can Handle A Little Bit So And Carrots Carrots Can Take About Three Weeks To For The Seeds To Sprout So Especially With July Weather And How It's Going To Be Hot You'll Want To Make Sure That You're Really Keeping Those Watered Especially In That Germination Phase One Thing That Some People Do Is They'll During That First Week Or Two Or Three While They're Starting To Germinate Brilliant Well Thank You Great Advice There From Dennis Maestro What's Our Next Question Please Here We Go It's Jilly I've Been Inspired By Vons Growing Nature Academy Well Yes Jilly Me Too Absolutely Now I Think This Question Was Probably Directed At Keith Because He's Our Herbal Expert Can You Recommend Some Herbs To The Entrance Of Our School I Tell You What On Keith's Behath I'm Just Going To Cover This One As We Just Have Planted This Fantastic Large Planter At The Front Of A Local Primary School And I Tell You What It's Wonderful To Have Some Colour Isn't It It Just Beautiful To Have Some Colour So We've Got Some Lovely Sage And You Get Those Lovely Flowers Coming From The Sage And Some Lavender Lavender Such A Beautiful Spiritual Presence And It's So Calming So I Think When The Children Are Coming In That's A Lovely One As Well Rosemary Of Course Rosemary For Remembrance Well You Know That's Going To Help The Children's Brains But Whatever You Can Put In That's Beautiful Maybe That's Going To Smell Nice Some Oregano Some Thyme Just Go For It And Click On The Growing Nature Academy Under The Project Section And You'll Get Some More Okay Keith I Hope I Did You Justice Maestro Where Are We Going Next Oh Where Is It Here We Go Oh It's Noreen How Can I Organically Kill Weeds Growing In The Middle Of A Farm Road I Can Hear Them Clunking Under The Car Non Bio Washing Powder Question Mark The Road Is About Half A Kilometre Long Okay So Noreen Lives On A Farm Track And She's Driving Down It And I've Had It As Well And You Know You Got The Boom Boom Boom Boom What Do We Think Panel I Mean She's Suggesting Non Bio Washing Powder I Mean I'm Just Kind Of Not Feeling Good Vibes From That Myself But But What About Your Thought Any Ideas I Was Also Thinking Cutting It Down If That's An Option Getting Out Some Secateurs And Going In There And Cutting It Down But We Don't Really Know Much About What Type Of Weeds They Are But In General If You Keep Cutting Weeds Down They'll Tend To Lose Some Of Their Oomph Over Time Yes Piers What About You What Do You Think Noreen Can Do With That Half A Kilometre Long Stretch The Tricky Thing Is The Length Of It If It Was A Smaller Area There Are Various Things We Could Suggest And Of Course Pulling Up By Hand Is One Of The Best Things Because You Pull Up The Roots Too But Half A Kilometre I Don't Know If I Want To Pull Up Weeds For That Long So Yeah Mowing Streaming Just The Best Way Isn't It If You Can Noreen Get A Friend With A Mower Ride On Mower And You Know That Might Be A Joyful Thing To Do And Half A Kilometre Is Not Too Long Is It Really You Know And The Journey Of A Thousand Miles Noreen It Starts With One Single Cut With Your Secateurs As Meg Was Saying Maestro Where Are We Going Next Oh Here We Go Hold On A Minute The Lake Dark Cherry Hi I Came Across Some Sea Kale Growing On The Beach Whilst I Was In Anglesey Recently I Know It's Aleable But I Wondered Whether I Should Be Concerned About The Accumulation Of Heavy Metals Great Question There I Ate Some Sea Kale Recently Delicious Absolutely Delicious It Was Indeed But We Do Have To Be Careful About Where We Are Harvesting And I Would Say What Was The Sea Like Were You Swimming In The Sea Were You Concerned About The Heavy Metals Going Into You That Way Obviously Fish Accumulate It We We're Vegans We're Not Eating The Fish But A So If You're Having Cod Liver Oil From Toxic Seas You're Just Eating Mercury Which Is A Crazy Thing Piers And Meg What Do You Think About This Issue I Tend To Be Pretty Wary About Anything From The Sea Now Because Around The coast Of The UK For Example The Pollution Is Pretty Bad And In Some Places Raw Sewage Is Still Being Dumped In The Sea And So All Seaweeds Are Edible For Example I Wouldn't Eat Seaweed Now Collected Locally Because You Just Don't Know What's In It And As Well As Sewage Of Course There Are Heavy Metals And PCBs And All Sorts Of Long Lasting Nasty Chemicals And We Don't Really Know What They're Going To Do To Us Especially When They're Combined You Know It's Easy To Test Whether One Particular Chemical Is Toxic To A Particular Organism But It's The Combination Because There Are So Many Possible Combinations Of These Chemicals It's Really Hard So I'd Be Pretty Wary But Of Course You Can Grow Sea Kale At Home I've Done That Myself So Maybe That's The Way To Go There We Go And Meg How Far Are You From The Ocean I'm Not Too Far From The St. Lawrence Seaway Which Is On Its Way To The Ocean But I Mean Oftentimes With Sea Kale It'll Be Growing On The Sand So I Think There's Kind Of That Question When We Look At Was It In Contact With Water That Might Have Sewage Or Things Like That There's That Question Too Of How Far Up The Coast Was It Because If It's You Know Even When We Eat Rice At Least Here In North America I Mean There's You Know Issues With Arsenic And Things Like That So One Of The Things About Something Like Sea Kale Is You Don't Want To Over Harvest It You Want To Be Very Careful About Not Over Harvesting It Anyway So In The Spirit Of Not Over Harvesting I Personally Wouldn't Have Any Issue With If It You Know If It Was Up Along The Shore A Bit Farther You Know Higher Up Away From The Water I Wouldn't Have Any Issue With Taking A Couple Of Leaves Off And Maybe Rinsing Them Off And Eating Them I Feel Like We're Getting Heavy Metal Content By Doing Things Like Being In Cars Or Taking A Walk Near Cars And Things Like That So I Don't Think A Piece Of Sea Kale Is Going To Be The Biggest Issue In Our Lives I Would Say Just Use Your Intuition There From The Question Coming In You Got To Feel What's Right For You And Get Back To That Hemp Is A Very Useful Plant It Is I Mean That's A Statement I Don't Know If This Is Do They Farm H What's That Axiom Seeds I Not Sure Anyone Oh My God The Questions Are Coming In What Do You Think About Micro Plastic Effects On Soil I Mean That's Dreadful Isn't It What Do You Think About The Nutrition In Food Now I Mean Stop Bombarding This Person We Just Cope With One At A Time That's Why We Need To Have Veganic To Answer Your Last Question That's Why We Need To Important Aspect Of It All And Using Some Of These Different Things And What Do You Think Of Hemp Yes Absolutely We Need The Hemp Revolution Maestro Next Question Please Here We Go It's Not Oh Oh I Think We've Had Nor In She's Back Sorry We Can We Go To Question Oh Here We Go What's Your Favorite Summer Recipe That Use Ingredients From Your Garden Thank You International Audience Indeed Carrie From Florida Okay Guys Meg What's Your Favorite Over To Ladies First All Right So When It's Earlier In The Season I Like Right Now I Tend To Have Greens I've Got Some Mushrooms Growing I've Got Green Onions So When That's What I've Got Available In My Garden I Typically Turn It Into Miso Soup I Know From A Summer Perspective It's Not The Summer It's One Of Those Things Where I Can Take A Leaf Of This And A Little Sprig Of That And Just Combine Them Together Add A Bit Of Miso And It's So Easy And Later In The Summer When We've Got Tomatoes And Peppers And Fresh Beans From The Garden I Really Like To Make Things Like Enchiladas And Burritos And I Just Find That When I Mix Those Ingredients Together With Some Spices It Ends Up Being Absolutely Delicious Wonderful Piers You've You've Got Several Books All About This So Just Give Us One One Of Your Favorite Summer Recipes Okay Well The First Thing That Came To Mind Is A Broad Bean Risotto Because Broad Beans Usually We Can Get The First Young Ones Available Sometime In Late May And It Always It's Always The Best We Downtown L Oh London for 10 quid. Cheers, everyone. Here's to the veganic revolution. So a few summer recipes for you. Maestro, we're doing so well with these questions. Now, this is Namratha. Now, we normally only let there be one question per person, but I put this in, another one in, because this is quite a question. We've created a forest on our farm. We've got a variety of crops that has dense foliage and it's attracted some wildlife. The rabbits, they've made their homes in the farm. They're damaging the crops. The rats and the squirrels are a constant problem eating ground crops. And they've now got an infestation of rats. The monkeys, we don't get them in Suffolk, but they visit occasionally eating bananas, sweet corn, mangoes and other fruits. Could you please suggest veganic friendly solutions to manage these issues? Now, panel, I think this is possibly one of the most difficult questions that we've ever had. I mean, I used to live in India, but I wasn't farming there. So any ideas, guys, on a farm level scale to deal with these animals veganically? Again, I think it's the scale that's the problem, because normally I would say with animals like that, the best way is just to grow your crops within cages that things like rabbits and squirrels can't get into. But difficult on a farm scale, there may be some kind of fencing around the perimeter that will help certainly with some of the things like rabbits, for example, but of course, not so good for monkeys, which will climb anything. So maybe it's a case of protecting some of the crops that these animals most go for in cages and grow some of the other stuff they don't like outside. Yeah. How about you, Meg? You got any idea? I mean, obviously, we can't do much about the monkeys. I don't think they were the main problem. I think it was, you know, maybe the rats and the rabbits. What do you think? Yeah, I mean, I've been lucky that I haven't really experienced too many problems of this nature. We sometimes have some animals that come in. We'll sometimes have some gophers come in and grab a little something or some squirrels that come in and grab a little something. One thing I would say is to think about what percentage of the crops are being affected. You know, sometimes we can have the impression that we're losing the majority of our crops. But if, for example, 10 or 20% of the crops are being affected and 80% of the crops are okay, at some point, we can sometimes, you know, accept that there's a certain amount of loss in the system and a certain amount of sharing with the ecosystem. As Pierce was mentioning, it's kind of the scale that is a bit tough because with rabbits, oftentimes you can put up a fence about a meter high and dig it into the ground a bit. And that can help considerably or putting cages over very specific crops. But it is harder to do that, as Pierce was mentioning on a larger scale. In some cases, you might be able to find basically devices that might detract them or repel them. So there are some devices like sound scare devices that will just kind of make loud sounds in a bit of a random way. You can also in some cases get devices that will kind of spray the animals with water like motion detector devices. For monkeys, I was reading that in some cases, they might be repelled a bit by shiny objects hanging in the trees, like CDs or pieces of aluminum or things like that, that kind of catch the glint of the sun. So I would suggest looking into what other people are doing in your area too. I think sometimes there's local knowledge. So sometimes what we need to do is get local knowledge from other folks, and then figure out which pieces of that local knowledge align with a vegan ethic. Sometimes people will tell us ideas that very much don't align with a vegan ethic and someone else might have a great idea that does align. So I would also say to find out what local farmers are doing. And in some cases too, you might be able to plant other things that they like to eat. I'm just going to give an example here, which is completely different types of animals to the ones you have an issue with. But birds, for example, birds have a preference for certain types of native fruits that farmers don't tend to grow because humans don't eat those fruits. But if farmers only grow things like cherries and plums, then the birds will eat things like cherries and plums, because the native foods that they actually like to eat aren't available. So you might want to look into, are there foods that these animals would typically eat as part of their natural diet that you might actually be able to plant on your farm that might eat? I get them to move away from your food crops and toward those kind of sacrificial crops. Brilliant, brilliant. Absolutely. Well, just a few things to catch up with there. We just had a comment that came through about what about getting a dog. When we lived in India, there was an organic spice farm and they had cats. And I said, why have you got cats? And they said, well, they keep the scorpions out and the the cobras out. And, you know, if we may say, well, if we're strictly vegan, we don't want to have animals, you know, following these veganic principles. But I don't want to get bitten by a scorpion or a cobra. So I can understand that. And someone said, have you thought about getting a dog? I mean, you know, each to their own. We just had a quick question fly up there, Maestro. I don't know if we can bring that back. Thank you, Maestro. A cherry tree doesn't seem overly happy. It's not flowering. The leaves are shriveling up with black fly. Just wants to give it a boost. Susie wants to give it a boost. Any suggestions there? Boosting a cherry tree. Pierce? Black fly does seem to be a problem actually this year. I know she mentions at the end of the year, but I've noticed at the moment a lot more black fly than usual and on unusual crops as well. So, you know, you always find them on things like broad beans at this time of the year. But I've got other plants like courgettes, for example, absolutely covered in black fly. But in terms of giving this tree a boost, I would suggest some plant teas, like make your own nettle tea and comfrey tea and water the tree once a week with those. And that will certainly give it a boost. Yeah. Anything to add there, Meg? Give that tree lots of love. Yeah. I mean, if you want to give a tree a boost in addition to the plant teas, you know, you can add some compost around the tree, you can add some hay around that'll decompose and start adding nutrients within a few weeks. And long term, I mean, trees love, you know, soil that's built up through lignan breaking down. So kind of a long term boost would be adding something like chipped branch wood around it, which short term will not help at all. But long term will improve the soil quality and, and give a boost eventually for, for future growth. Wonderful. Well, I tell you what panel, can you believe it? Oh, here we go. It's our dear friend. Can you go spirulina at home? I'm not actually sure. I don't, I've got no idea. I've got no idea. But what I would say is you can get a very good, this is a good thing for the vegans now for high protein, you can get very clean, where they're growing it in very clean environments, the spirulina, chlorella. So look for those sources that are super organic sources of these things, because we don't necessarily want them as we were talking about those heavy metals. So panel, can you believe we've come to the end of the show? And I'd just like to say that for the people that have, have sent in questions, and we do really appreciate it. Keep sending them in as well to the website. If you didn't get your question answered this week, this month, sorry, we'll come back next month. But I always like to finish off just with a little, just with a final message. What's your final message? Just a 30 second message to the listeners, to the world. We'll start with you, Pierce. I'd say, don't forget that growing veganically is not just about your own health, although it will be great for that, but it's for the health of everyone else, for the whole planet. Beautiful. Amen to that. And over to you, Meg. Meg I would just like to remind people just to cherish and enjoy the gardening season. For many of us from cooler climates, it's a bit of a short season. This is the time to really maximize your harvests, try new recipes, and put away some of those harvests so that you'll still be eating vegan organically in the winter too. Beautiful. Absolutely. And I'd just like to thank everyone listening live as well for your questions. We do always do our best to kind of fit them in amongst the schedule questions. So if you didn't get your question answered, go to veganorganic.net and just send an email with the question and we will do our very best to answer them. Look, everyone, thank you so much on behalf of the fantastic panel. We just send our love to Keith as well. I wasn't able to make it today. So I hope you're well, Keith. And we'll get you on next month because he's a top guy. And thank you to the Vegan Organic Network. Thank you to Piers Warren. Thank you to Meg from Learn Veganic. Thank you to everyone out there. And I would just like to finish with a message. And it's a message that was in that song really, which is, you know, vegan organic can heal the planet. On behalf of Von, thank you so much. It's planet friendly growing, everyone. Don't forget to sign up to the Von map. Don't forget to become a member of the Vegan Organic Network. Thank you so much, everyone. I'm going to have a bit more of my mojito. See you soon. Take care, everyone. Thanks a lot.