Tips on Managing and Measuring Clover Rich Swards
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1nNGUa2s49E
Pets & Animals
 Okay so I'm just going to use the shears and quadrant to measure a clover printed ryegrass ward and look as you can see from as you can see across the paddock there there's quite a lot of clover in this. We probably estimate that this would be probably somewhere between 50 and 60 percent of the dry matter produced by this paddock is coming from clover in itself and that is it's probably a bit too high and it's just in this paddock again for whatever reason the clover established itself very very strongly. Okay and obviously there are some there's issues and concerns in terms of bloat with clover the farmer that's on this farm is very cognizant of that and is very careful just to restrict the allowances of the cows when they come into this paddock. Basically when they come in here first for their first grazing they're just allocated probably only a three-hour strip among all the cows so that they graze the clover leaves at the start which are dangerous in terms of bloat but then of course as they continue to graze through the sward they're grazing down then into the lower horizons of the sward which contain more stem and then they're grazing down then to the lower again down to close to the residual which has more roughage in it again. All of those all of those factors coming together to help prevent bloat. If he left him in over the whole paddock they would just continuously walk around and pick off the leaves which are the bloat risk and then again bloat would probably be inevitable and with potentially serious consequences. So that that alone is just one tip or one trick going into a high clover paddock just to give it maybe a three or two to three hour restricted amount first and then once they have that graze down to the residual their really intense drive to graze is less and then you can take up the strip wire and let him over the rest of the paddock and again to reduce the bloat risk. So again just to just to use the shears and quadrant in terms of measuring a clover a clover rich sward again the key thing with its shears and quadrant is just to try to place it in a fairly representative part of the paddock that represents the general cover so I think I think this area here is generally is reasonably representative of what we see in front of us there. So again just place the quadrant and my bag my shears and the and the scales again cutting to about three and a half centimeters okay we can just so measure the weight of the bag So this has a weight of 125 grams. So we get the calculator. So the formula again, 1, 2, 5 grams times the proportion of dry matter. So again this is a common question in terms of what is the percentage or how does it differ in terms of the percentage of dry matter in a prennial ryegrass sward versus a clover sward. Generally you would be dropping the, if the prennial ryegrass dry matter content is 16%, you would estimate the clover to be 1% lower. So you would estimate it to be about 15%. So again I would say, earlier on we did a cut earlier on in the ryegrass dominance board we said that was about 16, 16.5% so we would probably be butting this at 15.5% for this. So again 125 times 0.155 for the proportion of dry matter equals that and then you multiply it by 40 because it's 40,000 of these quadrants in a hectare. So here the shears and quadrant method is estimating that this paddock has about 775 kilos of dry matter per hectare available. That's available from 3.5 cm up available in this paddock at the moment. Again so that in total cover terms for New Zealand or UK viewers that is about 2200 to 2300 kilos of dry matter. So that's the total cover right down to the soil level per hectare. Which very quickly turns out to be found," havia Durand tried the mater of flat'll ethical data." D drilled Gary who once believed that 0.605 suport has a life turnover and the application Bur finish background on what's the whole over Ibukat, who would want to fix a lot of facts and tie a lot of materials inside using the metallurian issue. So this is diesem one which is why I run on here right now for discussion.