Cibus Gene Editing Technology for Plant Breeding Meets Demand for Non GMO Crops
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1oreoAUTi38
Entertainment
 So Cebus is a biotechnology company that is bringing new traits and characteristics to a lot of agricultural markets. But specifically today we're here to talk about canola and the system that we're using is called a rapid trait development system. So it's a family of technologies that is allowing us to use everything from conventional mutagenesis right through to the latest gene editing techniques. Wow, and then I guess you know speaking of gene editing RTDS, why is this different from other planet breeding methods? What makes it different? So the R is very important, it's rapid, it's incredibly fast. And essentially the industry in canola particularly has had a lack of innovation. There's a number of wonderful traits that have come forward, but that's 20 years ago. So the ability for us to bring forward a new herbicide tolerance like SU Canola, a product that fits with rotation, is great for farmers, with regards to profitability. But it's just the first of many that are coming. And that's the most exciting part is the ability for us to generate new characteristics almost on a yearly basis. And why should growers care about Cebus? So growers should care because if they want to make every acre more profitable, we're the guys that are going to provide their genetics to do that. Not only that, there's demand right now for non-GMO, and farmers both in the US and Canada are able now to get contracts for their grain at the end of the season with a premium for the Cebus products. And what's the vision for the future going forward? So the vision for us is the ability to, we're inspired by nature, to harvest that diversity that's out there, and to build a pipeline of characteristics and new traits and new products for multiple crops that include disease tolerance, healthier oils, multiple different types of weed control packages for farmers in a very short space of time. Thank you.