Powering a Clean Tomorrow: Cheap Hydrogen from Biomass
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qFMqiW7oYM
Science & Technology
 These are in listen-only mode. Good afternoon, everyone. If I could have your attention, we'll get started with today's seminar. I want to welcome all of you to our sustainable seminar today. Our audience here, and then we also have viewers online. My name is Nancy Hun. I'm Assistant Director here at the University of Illinois' Illinois Sustainable Technology Center. This is part of our seminar series entitled Sustainability in Action. I think you'll see from today's speaker that he's taking action to move us forward in the energy sector to meet the world's demand for energy using sustainable practices. The schedule for the four remaining seminars is available on the side table here or can be viewed online on our ISTC website. I also wanted to make you aware that we have a special sustainability event next Monday night for those who are here in Champaign-Urbana. And this will be entitled Re-Engineering Cultures for True Sustainability, presented at 4.30 at Alice Campbell Hall. There's flyers on the side table for that. And again, that's also information available on our website. Please silence your cell phones for those who have not done so already. And I'll ask that you hold questions to the end of this presentation today. And then we'll also, for those listening online, if you want to type your questions in, we'll take those at the end also. We're very pleased today to welcome as our speaker, Dr. Sam Weaver. He's founder of Proton Power Incorporated. He received his Ph.D. in metallurgical engineering from the University of Tennessee in Knoxville. And he holds nine patents in the areas of advanced materials. Throughout his more than 40 years of studying at least 10 companies, Dr. Weaver has focused on impactful technologies. His latest endeavor, however, could be one of his most significant to date. It can address the world's energy needs, particularly in developing nations, while also raising the standard of living. He will discuss his technology in his presentation today entitled Powering a Clean Tomorrow, Cheap Hydrogen from Bioness. Please welcome Dr. Weaver. Thank you. Thank you. Can you hear me okay? Okay. I think most of the energy at this campus on this weekend is going to be down at the football stadium. And we certainly have something in common with you at the University of Tennessee. We're playing the number one team in the country. So I think we're both going to end up as an energy shortage at the end of this. So, but today we're going to talk about hydrogen. And you'll hear me talk about all the ways we can use hydrogen. But at the end of the day, all we're bringing new to the world is the way to have a cheap source of hydrogen. We make it from biomass and we make it on demand. The system you see here is a prototype. The first unit we actually sold at the University of Tennessee. And they got us interested in actually making bio-oil and eventually liquid fuels using this technology. So, this particular piece of equipment is a pyrolysis reactor and they use it to make biochar and bio-oil. But just to give you a little bit of background of where we come from. I worked for Oak Ridge National Laboratory for a few years early in my career. And then I've been a serial entrepreneur ever since. I have a business partner, Ian and I have worked together for 41 years. Almost everything we've done has been in the industry business of some sort. So we started making neutron absorbers for the large commercial nuclear power plants. We made aluminum B4C that allows them to go into higher initial fuel loading so they could go longer before they reload. And so they could stretch those reactor cycles from 12 months to 24 months. So we then started making the boron carbide control rod materials and that controls the power level of those reactors. We developed a new technology, drove 90 percent out of the manufacturing cost. And when we exited that market we ended up with an 87 percent market share on a worldwide basis. About 250,000 of each of those goes right into the core of nuclear reactors. And so we made those about 10 million that are high precision products. Along the way we made test and research reactor fuel 93 percent rich uranium. We bought at Gulf United Nuclear National and Atomic Center National. And one time we were supplying all of the test and research reactor in the free world with the exception of two reactors. About 10 million people a year will be treated with radio isotopes. And if you've flown on Boeing 767 to Boeing 777 you've been stopped by brakes made right in Knoxville, Tennessee. Still made today the same way we developed it about 18 years ago. It's still the only single step processing of aircraft brakes. Almost all of the four-mill on-risk cars, four-mill on-risk aircraft, some of the air buses. And we made 2800 degrees C production furnaces. That's half the temperature of the surface of the sun. And I'm giving you this background to show you that we're coming from a different space where we're making our hydrogen. And our most famous or infamous, depending on their point of view, we work with Coors to help them make a silicon nitride punch. So they could make the thinnest beer cans in the world and so they advertise the coldest beer in the thinnest beer cans. So in 2006 we gave up the beer in brakes and started into renewable energy. This is a pictorial of what we're all about. We're sort of feedstock agnostic. We can take any kind of carbon, hydrogen, oxygen molecules, purpose-grown energy crops, woody waste, municipal solid waste. We tested about 40 different materials. I'll show you some of that. We put it through our process, create the hydrogen and then with that hydrogen you can use that hydrogen all the ways we use energy. To heat electricity and to make liquid fuel with gasoline, diesel and aviation fuel. We have two co-products. One of them is water and the other is biochar. Both of them have value. The hydrogen of course when it's eventually burned, burns the water. The biochar is a great soil supplement. Our particular biochar is particularly good because we process at about 1100 degrees centigrade. So the volatiles are down around 2%. Whereas the way it's biochar is typically made, it's typically made at a lower temperature using a torrefaction process where they have volatiles. But this biochar should stay in the soil for a very long time period. Now we do put CO2 back in the air and basically we're reversing what the plant does. The plant takes the CO2 and water out of the air, a little bit of energy from the sun, creates the plant. We add a little bit of energy, we create the hydrogen which becomes water and we release some CO2 back in the air. But we don't release as much carbon back in the air as we took out because we have the biochar and the biochar ends up in the air. The biochar ends up being about 85% carbon plus all the nutrients that the plant took out of the ground. So it's a great soil supplement. So sort of where are we as a company overall? We have a really good hydrogen content and our hydrogen gas stream. We don't make a pure gas stream. We make a 65% hydrogen. A typical syngas is about 15% hydrogen. We are in early stage commercialization. We have been at this for about five years now. We do have not many customers but they are really good customers. They are all customers that have an economic incentive to do it. We have 11 submitted patents around the technology, the first one being issued. We have four locations in our Rome County area in Tennessee. About 90,000 square feet, 125 acres. 70 employees but it's a high tech operation so we do have a lot of engineers. This is a picture of the first power generation system that we are installing and Luis Rodriguez has been down to see it. It's on about half acre land and we call it a half a megawatt. Teddy Wampler, this is on a Wampler farm sausage. This is a sausage manufacturer and the hero of entrepreneurs who go to this valley of death and die if you don't have some first adopters like Teddy. This is a sausage manufacturer and when I say sausage manufacturer, he makes a million sausages a day. So it's a serious sausage manufacturer. He wanted the capability of expanding to two megawatts. He could actually do three megawatts based on the biomass handling here. We have three Caterpillar gensets that are a little bit over a megawatt in terms of total power. So we've given them a little bit more than they've asked for. I'll just show you a few pictures here. You may not be able to see it. This is where the biomass comes in. That's a slope wall back there and we have a drag rig system that drags it up into a trough. It gets ordered down into a hammer mill and then up into this biomass storage area. And we had about eight hours of storage for half a megawatt. Then is in the other end of the plant. This is a picture of some of our chip units that are in the process of being installed. We actually do the generation of the hydrogen and then these are the Caterpillar gensets. We did the first startup on this two or three weeks ago and this was the flare. And what we do is we flush the system out and then we fill the lines with our chip gas, what we call our chip gas, so you know it's the hydrogen power. And then we flare it for a short period of time and then we run it through our system. Now of course if this is pure hydrogen you couldn't see that flame. The hydrogen is most clean. But we do have CO and CO2 in there and that gives it a coat. And then I want to, on the next one, if I can here I'm going to show you the startup. Just give you a little bit of our excitement here. I don't know if I can do this with this thing or not. Can you, yeah there you go. Can you start it up? There you go. That's my business partner you're going to hear with the noise. Okay. Alright. So you missed this excitement. It was exciting to us because that was the startup of the first commercial unit. So what are the general advantages? Well, according to the Energy Information Agency if we can get feedstock cost less than $40 of bone dry metric ton, we are now the low cost supplier of electricity. That's cheaper than combined cycle natural gas. And it's not that we've improved our technology that much in this short time period. If the EPA is moving everybody else up. They have a couple of bumps in their requirement. The other thing is that eliminates the need for hydrogen distribution system and eliminates the need for hydrogen storage system. Those are the three big issues relative to having a hydrogen economy. And the American Hydrogen Association says it will take between now and 2050 and $50 billion to solve those problems. We weren't smart enough to solve two and three so we just eliminated it by making that hydrogen on demand. So the other thing that's really important is that the systems are scalable to suit the application. You don't have to have a 100 megawatt system to make it economical. And the reason that's important is for total economic and energy efficiency you don't want to have to bring your biomass in from a long ways away. You want it to be relatively close preferably within 50 mile radius unless you have something like a rail spur to pull it in off of the rails. So in principle you can do this all the way from home use to multi megawatt. The problem is when you get down to home use they don't make generators that are efficient enough. Once you get below about 100 kilowatts when people are buying generators just for backup and they're not particularly efficient. Cellulose fuel is renewable, the byproduct is water. Lewis wanted me to mention to you that I'm not expecting this to happen but this is kind of symbolic. If the US use our technology for all their energy we would create three times as much water as the US uses. The reason is what happened the plant took the CO2 and water out of the air. And so when you put this back in the air, put that water back in you get a half a ton of water out for every ton of biomass. Half a ton of water for every ton of biomass. It's a huge opportunity for some places that need it. Much of the fuel can be waste product and we work with a lot of different waste products. The process is carbon negative and I said before we can use this hydrogen all the ways we use energy. Heat, electricity and liquid fuel. So a little bit about the gas stream itself. That's what the 65% hydrogen gas stream. We're at about five times the hydrogen content of most syngases. The reason is most syngas systems are what they call controlled combustion. So they end up consuming a lot of the hydrogen in the process of generating their heat. As a consequence we end up with about a 50% higher energy content than the typical syngas. Our chief competitor in the area, at least the one with the most publicity in Exterior, they advertise theirs as 105. We also have done an experience with these things over the last five years. We've learned that we can control this gas stream. We can actually reduce the hydrogen content and increase the shield content. It generates a little methane when we do that. And we can get our BTU content up to 400 to 425. The reason that's important is when we put this thing right into a natural gas generator. And when you put it in the natural gas generator because they're designed for 1000 BTU per cubic foot. Sorry I'm not metric guys. I am most of the time but some of the rest of the world is not metric. And so when you go in with lower energy content you downrate the power. It doesn't affect the efficiency of the use of it. You end up downrating the power. So as we get up to 425 BTU per cubic foot, the power down rate is actually less than what the generator manufacturers recommend that you run those generators at. They don't recommend you run them at the max power all the time. So what are the operational advantages? Well if it's less than 45% moisture you don't have to dry the feedstock if you generate hydrogen. You do have to dry it if you're making liquid fuel. We're very flexible to different feedstocks and you can change feedstocks on the fly. It is a relatively simple process. It's a one-stage process for the power generation. We don't produce any waste streams and that's really important because most thin gas systems produce a really ugly tar waste stream. And the reason we don't is we take our gas stream as it comes out. We run it back through the incoming biomass and what happens when we do that is we pull out any tars, any particulate, any moisture that's in there. And we recover some of the heat that makes the overall operation more efficient. If we're going to make liquid fuels we use that same first stage for both the liquid fuel and power generation. And one of the easiest ways to use this thing is just to directly supplement an existing diesel generator. In other words in principle you can do it up to 80%. We've done it up to 60% in our lab. And so you put in our what we call our chip gas, hydrogen-rich gas stream, keep the same power output and reduce the diesel consumption by 60%. So early on we had this idea that actually stemmed from some stuff we did back in the 1980s. And I retired my business partner said let's do something again. And we had this idea we built this system because we're manufacturers that work with you. And the thing worked the way it was supposed to and right away you're suspicious. So we had the Shaw environmental group come in to do their setup and that was their setup. They were there for three days and sure enough we had a 65% hydrogen gas stream. So this is a notional diagram of how it works. We pre-processed the feedstock. If you're making electricity it needs to be in the 6 to 10 millimeter range. And we feed it through the reaction zone. We get out the biochar. And in the early days we would just cool it down and clean it up. And by cleaning it up we were using a catalyst to do that. It was very effective. It got our hydrocarbon down to less than 10 parts per million. But we didn't want a waste stream of any kind including the catalyst. So what we did was that's when we started putting the gas stream back to the incoming bioass. So this is a little bit closer to the system that's actually gone into Wampers. We do use a gas bladder storage now. We can't quite load follow with our system because we control the power output, the hydrogen generation by some peach screws. But that will follow by a couple of seconds and you need to pass it in that if you're going to do power generation. So we have a gas bladder and we've got the pressure up to about 4 psi to go into the gensets. And with that we can load follow pretty well. We worked with a lot of different materials. When we first started with our first system the first thing we used was junk mail. And surprisingly that worked really well. Unfortunately it's not a good long term stream because actually junk mail has a pretty good value as a recycle material. But then we moved up to sawdust and hay and straw and switchgrass and yard waste. And we tested about 40 different materials at this point. One of the local crops in our area is called switchgrass. Switchgrass is the grass that used to cover the Great Plains before our European ancestors came in and cut it all down and planted wheat. That's what the buffalo lived on and so on. It's a great material and we're going to use that to run the Guapa farm sausage material. I think in this area you're experimenting with some miscanthus. We've also worked with miscanthus. It's also a good material to work with. And we call it cellulose hydrogen power but that's because it just makes a cute name that we trademarked with CHIP. It's really biomass. And of course that pie chart that's typical for Alamo switchgrass doesn't have to be all hydrogen at all. I mean all cellulose at all. So you've got cellulose and cellulose and other materials. We have had a life cycle analysis done for us by a fellow at Sandia Laboratories. They showed we had an 85% reduction in CO2 emissions relative to fossil fuels. Missing 15% of course of the transportation piece of it. But if you use something like switchgrass, switchgrass puts down those really deep roots. So it fixes the carbon in the soil. And so even with that it's carbon negative. This is a list of all the different materials that we have worked with. And last week I gave a talk to the railroad tie association. Can you believe there's a railroad tie association? And because we've done a lot of work with the railroad ties and they actually work pretty well. But we work with material from all over the planet because this technology has applications in a lot of different areas. So we're getting into the economics a little bit. Because if you're going to have a sustainable future it's got to be economical. You can do a little bit of stuff and pay a higher price but it's going to be long term. It's going to be economical. And the best of all worlds is to have it cheaper than fossil fuels. And that's sort of where we are with this technology. If you're making electricity, this is the cost of electricity as a function of the different feedstock material. And this of course is our junk mail. And actually it's pretty expensive because it has a high price of the feedstock. Not for us in the home but for the guys who are recycling. If you're working with an agriculture waste like switchgrass or MSW or something like that. You can get your cost down pretty low. The operation maintenance and write down of the equipment is about 4 cents a kilowatt hour. And the rest of it is cost of the feedstock. And the way to think about it, every $15 a bone dry metric ton translates into an additional cent of kilowatt hour. So this is from the Energy Information Agency. This is the one that just came out this July. This is for new installs going in 2018. And this column over here is the one of interest. If we have feedstock at $40 bone dry metric ton, we're down here at about 59 megawatt hour. 5.9 cents a kilowatt hour. Advanced combined cycle natural gas is the next cheapest. So we think that was a really important transition point for us and it's changed the way we talk to the utilities. They're a lot more interested in talking to you if you say we've got a cheaper way of doing it than begging them to increase what they're paying for. So another way to look at the hydrogen cost, a kilogram of hydrogen has 92% of the energy content of a gallon of gasoline. And we can make a kilogram of hydrogen for 30 to 78 cents a kilogram, depending on the cost of the feedstock. Now, I doubt that any of you here are interested in doing merchant hydrogen sales, but there are a couple of important takeaways. If you want to make a metric ton of an hour of the lightest element on earth or in the universe, we can do it for about half the cost of natural gas reforming, which is typically how hydrogen is made by natural gas reforming. The feedstock cost is also about a third of that of natural gas. So in addition to good economics, the other thing that was really important to us is that we have a good energy payback ratio. And we did not want to be in another corn ethanol issue where you want to get maybe 30% more energy out than you put in. No matter how happy my farmer brother-in-law is with the corn in the whole thing. But all of these are out of the literature except the red bars. The lower red bars, the lower red bar is energy crop like switchgrass and the skanthus and that takes into account all the energy that went into the farmer planting the crop, harvesting it, getting it at the farm gate, the transportation and the grinding of the feedstock. The upper one is a waste material like sawdust where we don't take into account the energy that went into the create the waste material. So another way to look at this, the energy efficiency standpoint, it takes about one and a half kilowatt hours of heat to generate a kilogram of hydrogen using our process. If you do it by electrolysis it takes 55 kilowatt hours of electricity. Of course it takes you about 165 kilowatt hours of heat to generate that electricity. So you're really comparing 165 to about one and a half. The other way that it's made is with natural gas reforming. You lose 13 kilowatt hours of heating value when you do that transformation to the hydrogen. So in addition to good economics and good energy efficiency, kind of the third leg of the stool is the environmental piece of it. This is a study that was done for us, not done for us, it was done by a company in England called AREP, a large engineering firm. We were working with another company in England and they hired AREP to do this evaluation of our technology compared to fossil fuels. It was so independent we didn't know they were doing it but they shared it with us later. So and I don't know how many are familiar with the new EPA mandate that's coming out. They just announced it two or three weeks ago. Coal-fire plants are going to be limited to 1,100 pounds of CO2 per megawatt hour and natural gas are going to be limited to 1,000 pounds per megawatt hour. That's going to effectively eliminate all of your fossil fuels with the exception of combined cycle natural gas. So you're going to have to have some pretty big plants to do that in the future. Our technology is down here so we're largely unaffected by all of that. We're about 50 times lower than the new EPA limits. The other study that was done for us was Dr. Adam Taylor at the University of Tennessee and you guys are happy to have you talk to him if you're interested. He did a complete environmental analysis not just the CO2 emissions but for the complete environmental life cycle analysis. This is really interesting because the only one I've ever seen where everything is negative. Negative is what you want. Negative is positive when you're doing environmental studies. So we think from all of the important aspects environmental, the energy efficiency and the economics, technology looks pretty good. This is just kind of a history. We started thinking about it in 2008 again with the first patent application. And then we started building our own prototypes. We have a laboratory that we have been running multiple prototypes. And when we build prototypes, they're big things. We learned a long time ago that if you build little systems and do your testing in small systems, then you're solving problems that you don't have with the big ones and you're not solving problems you do have. So the first one we generated would generate about 450 kilowatts of thermal. Along the way we delivered the system to the University of Tennessee. We got a first order for liquid fuels. We went out and bought an 83 acre site to put in our first liquid fuel plant. We got the order from Teddy Wampler and then he wanted to wait for about eight miles to see if he was going to get a grant. So we got a kind of a later start on that than we would like to. And then we are at this point in time putting in our first two prototypes for doing the liquid fuel production. I'll talk about more in a little bit. So we have three local, this is three of the four locations we have. We have our research center, a farm that's in the industrial park that's 40 acres. And then our manufacturing plant which is just about half a mile away. 23,000 acres of office and manufacturing space. And then we have the large plant down about 25 miles from us where we're putting in the first liquid fuel plant. We have a smaller plant about 5,000 per feet. And then we have to do the soil level or to do biomass processing. This is just a look inside of our manufacturing facility. It's machining and welding. We are now an ASME code qualified shop as of last week. so that means we can make pressure. If we want to expand we have the capability expanding on this 26 acres side out of the 40. We could put another seven buildings on that. Just to show you that this is a serious effort, this is the manufacturing, this is the engineering team that we have. It's a really serious engineering effort. We just added an architect last week which is not on here yet. The group down at the bottom is a sister company in Boulder, Colorado where they're doing research on sterling engine. They've now developed the most efficient sterling engines in history and waste heat recovery is where this is going to be important. Eventually what we're going to do is we're going to put some of those sterling engines on the back of our natural gas generators to dump the overall efficiency of the generators. You can do that at a cost that doesn't increase the cost per watt of the install but it reduces the feedstock cost which is the primary cost to your customer. This is a sort of a pictorial range of things that we have looked at and quoted to people. Half megawatt is what we're doing here. Actually capable of doing about a megawatt is what we have installed there. The largest area of interest came from the Japanese after the tsunami. They came in and asked us to quote a 500 megawatt plant. We took a serious look at that and we would have ended up with 256 of our chip units going into a turbine combined cycle. This is sort of what you can do with all of the applications. You can supplement additional genset directly as I mentioned before we've done up to 60%. We've been running natural gas generators now for almost five years. We just feed our gas stream right into the natural gas generators. You don't have to make any changes whatsoever. We do have a valve in between that makes sure that we have the right fuel to oxygen ratio. We've worked with demolition and construction wood waste. In that case, of course, that demolition construction wood waste has got pressure treated wood in it and so it's got toxic materials in it. So what happens is after we run it through our unit, we sent the biochar off to be analyzed to an independent lab in Nashville. They did a T-clip analysis on it and what they showed was that indeed we had six toxic materials in that biochar, but only one of those six was leachable and it was 200 times lower than the EPA limit. So from the landfill owner's standpoint, at least for this piece of it, he reduces what goes in the landfill by 96% so it can stretch that landfill by 25 times. And when he puts in the landfill, he's not worried about leaching into the groundwater and he has a new revenue stream. It's just the power generation. We're doing work with liquid fuel. We're going to put an install in the Blue Lake Ranchera in California, teaming up with the Ballard fuel cell. It's interesting because everything quiet, you don't have allowed in this random maintenance cycles along, but the training cost is high. I think long term is probably not an economical model. And because they have to clean up our gas stream, the overall efficiency instead of being 46% is down around 37% because there's a lot of energy that goes into cleaning up the gas stream. And as a downside to fuel cells in general, they get those high efficiencies but they ignore the energy that goes into creating that hydrogen. And so when you look at the full life cycle analysis of the fuel cells, they don't look any better than any other internal combustion engine. And we're disappointed in that because we thought that was going to be a sweet spot for us. And of course using our cheap hydrogen to make liquid fuels. And the other thing is I bought a little dual fuel car and we're going to run it off of our chip gas because it already runs off the natural gas. And I won't let my engineers touch it until we finish the wallplay install. So we do have competitors that are out there and it's hard to get a big handle on them. There's a couple we know pretty well, Community Power and NextEra. Community Power is a small system in Golden, Colorado and NextEra, they're kind of the big dogs out there. We love them because they're plowing the ground really well for us. They're selling systems about twice our price. This is just a comparison between ours which is about the size of one of the two of these tables put together here compared to Community Power alone. I get asked a lot about aren't you worried about natural gas? Natural gas unfortunately depleting the deep shale wells, we got a lot out of it. It's depleting about twice the rate that they had expected. So you get about 95% of all you're going to get out of those deep shale wells in about four years. And then I happened to look at a couple of our customers' bills and so I started asking myself how cheap is the natural gas? It's cheap compared to other energy, cheap compared to oil which is tripled in price. But it's not cheap compared to say the natural price increases that we see. Okay, to talk a little bit about what we call our green diesel, renewable diesel, synthetic diesel. We take one of our chip units and create hydrogen. We take a second chip unit and we create the fast pyrolysis oil. And then because we have our own hydrogen source we can do everything from biomass. Everybody else that's doing this still uses fossil natural gas for the hydrogen source ultimately. So we create the fast pyrolysis oil, we hit it with our hot hydrogen and then we do the hydro-treating and hydro-cracking while it's still at temperature. And then we do the distillation of the cool down. So single step process throughout the system. This is once again the system we got us interested in this at the University of Tennessee. This is where we're making them fast pyrolysis all the way. Everybody has to make it and then we're looking at each of the steps. This is about 20 kgs of biomass going in. We can get about a 65% yield by weight by oil coming out by biomass going in. That's not the final product of course because that still has water in it and it still has oxygen in the molecules. But at the end of the day the molecules that we make are going to be the same molecules that's in the fossil fuel. It won't have the oxygen in it and it won't be like biodiesel which is a different molecule. Oops, uh oh, I'm about to do it. I'm gonna make sure I don't run out of time here. This is just some of the bio oil that was in process. This is a highly treated bio oil. This is some distilled product. This is just illustrates the difference between what goes on in petroleum diesel and what goes on in synthetic fuel. Petroleum diesel as it comes out of the ground already has the energy content that you want to end up with. They're just cleaning it up and maybe changing some of the molecules. In our case we're starting with 6 to 9,000 BTU per pound and we're concentrating that energy up to about 18,000 BTU per pound. This is what a 50,000 meter a day plant, 4.8 million gallon year plant would look like. It has about 2.5 acres of land. This is some of the economics. At the end of the day that's what's important. If you're paying $60 a bone dry metric ton for your feedstock, you're gonna end up with a cost of about $1.70 a gallon. And the way that relates to the feedstock, every dollar per bone dry metric ton correlates to about a penny a gallon. So I was going to go through some of the stuff we've done in the past but I'm going to skip over that just to show you some of the philosophy behind this. What's the point of all this that we're doing this? I don't know how many of you have seen this but this is a relationship of wealth to energy availability. The gross domestic product per capita and energy per capita. And the interesting thing about the US number sort of up there on the chart but it's been flat since 1974. Even though we've got houses that are twice the size, cars that are twice the size, and all kinds of electronic gadgets. They've all been offset by increasing efficiency. What that means is you can probably put a cap on what the energy demand on the world is going to be based on the population. And of course a lot of the world would like to have what we have. One response is well we got it and you can't have it. That doesn't seem to be holding up so well. That's the world means. The real problem is down here the median income on the planet is $850 a year. And the reason is fundamentally they don't have access to energy. So what if you were to do something about that? What would it look like? Well the world uses currently about 15 terawatts continuous energy consumption. If the world had what we have it would be 84 terawatts. One way you can think about getting there is to add 2 terawatts a year. And after 60 years you now match the population what the energy consumption means. The other thing it means is as big as Exxon and Shale and those companies are, they're only supplying 20% of what the world needs. My mental image for 2 terawatts a year is that is 6 large thousand megawatt electric nuclear plants coming online every day forever. That's how big the problem is. And the only way I know to get there is with biomass. You can get there with biomass. The way to think about it mechanically is everybody drives around on a 100 kilowatt engine car. You wouldn't do it this way but they make 78 million of those a year now. 20 million a year is your 2 terawatts. And they increase by that now from 2001 to 2010. So it's not a stretch to think we can get there mechanically. What would it look like if you did that? 5,000 billion dollars worth of new installs a year. 50 million manufacturing jobs. 10 million new support jobs each year. So we like it because we think it's a good business opportunity. But is the future of energy? Well everybody has their opinion. 100 years is probably going to be about the end of the fossil fuels. It's not going to affect me so much as it is a lot of people in this room. Nuclear can do a little bit but there's some restrictions on that in terms of where you can locate it and so on. If you're going to have a sustainable renewable future that we have to go to at some point, biomass has to be part of it because the wind and solar are discontinuous. So I've got a couple more slides but I think I'm going to stop here and ask questions. Thank you. Thank you. So do we have some questions from the audience? Jim? What's your relationship with the big DOE research facility at Oak Ridge? I used to work there. You're a spin off business. No. Well in a way what I was working on at Oak Ridge was only peripherally related to what I started my first company making neutron absorbers. I did have a nuclear option off of my metallurgy when I graduated, my undergraduate and then I went to work for Oak Ridge National Laboratory. And at that time the mission of the lab was nuclear and they had big promises for the future. So what they're doing now is they're doing stuff that kind of related to what we're doing but we talk once in a while but that's about it. I get so proud of that because it seems like the military would be very interested in your technology. They are. You end up talking to all the generals and it's just one more general that has no money. They would be very happy for us to install systems and put it in a plant for them and run it. Our business model is because we do have limited resources, our business model is make the system and sell them and let other people use them. We're like a computer model. There's plenty of room for this technology to be spread widely. If we try to do it all ourselves we're going to do two or three systems, we're going to be out of money and that's all we're going to do. If we make the stuff then everybody can operate and make money. We're going to be able to do that. Do you have other questions? Seth? You have a question. Levelized fossil there where you compare your system natural gas there was zero on the O&M so I'm wondering if you can comment on that. Zero on the O&M? On the charging. On our stuff, no we didn't try to fill in our stuff. I mentioned before the operation maintenance and write down of our equipment is about three and a half to four cents a megawatt hour. In other words it's about on that chart we were talking about the whole system of $59 we'd be at about $35 for operation maintenance and write down liquid. So that would clear for natural gas. No, no, no. $59 was the total. Including the O&M? Including the O&M. Now you may not be able to always get feedstock at $40 of bone drying method. I mean there's a lot of places you might pay $60, $70, $80 for it maybe even more. So that may drive us up in certain locations over. But this technology even though you can put it every place you may not want to put it every place. You may not want to put it here because you're paying five cents a kilowatt hour for your electricity because you've got a lot of nuclear in your mix. And that's really cheap. But at the end of the day you can do it here but you probably don't want to do it here. If you're going to do something here you probably want to do liquid fuel. Other questions? What's your mass or moisture content? Have you used something? Could we repeat this question? Okay, the maximum moisture content is a feedstock material. If you generate a hydrogen gas stream it's about 45%. If you're doing the liquid fuel though you want that as low as possible because every molecule of water you put in you have to take back out. Have you done any work with algae feedstock? We have. We've run some algae feedstock from Arizona State University. We've done a lot of water and they ran just fine. Took them about a month to dry it down to our level but algae worked just fine. Any questions? Let's get a little bit of all the different types of feedstock. How do low monitor work on the kind of feedstock engine and change? Is there a big calibration change? The question was if we change feedstocks is there a big calibration difference that we have to do? The answer is no. We can change the feedstocks on the fly. The system will self adjust for it by calling for either a higher or a lower throughput of the feedstock. Anyone else? How do you do that? Okay the question is do we evaluate the cost of the feedstock versus the energy availability? And the answer is yes. We do that. And what we like to pay for is the million BTUs of energy that's in that. And we do that. We do a carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen analysis with oxygen by difference. You can calculate and a low heating value content from that information. Another question? Jin Lee? Yes. For power generation what kind of engine do you use? Is it a gas turbine or gas turbine? Okay. The question is what kind of engines do we use for power generation? We've been using natural gas generators. What you saw in the picture up there in our first commercial install are caterpillar generators. They're rated at 375 kilowatts. We have looked at the genbacher. We like genbacher a lot. Unfortunately when the EPA bumped up the new regs in 2013 they quit making the small generators that we needed for that site. If we go to a larger system we probably will add the genbacher to the mix. We have a couple questions from our audience listening online that will ask us. What is the resource for your pyrolysis staff and are you running a burner with some of the fuel that you produce or using some off-the-date? Okay. The question is what is the energy source for the pyrolysis and our energy source is electricity. We do not use any of our gas as a parasitic heat source. That certainly is an option and we consider that. But we don't need to do that. One of the reasons is when we generate our gas stream the heat that we put into that gas steam we recover by running that hot gas back to the incoming biomass. That makes the overall operation more efficient. What is the energy content of dry, dry time of biomass that you use? They will vary. We run them anywhere from less than 3,000 BTU per pound up to 9,000 BTU per pound. When you get below about 4,000 it becomes questionable as to the value of the feedstock. If that is because it has a lot of water into it and you may be able to dry it. But most of what we are running is in the 6,000 BTU per pound. Is there any other questions for you guys right now? Given the limitations you mentioned on transportation costs of the feed material and the fact that there is a growing season, how do you propose to make this a continuous process? Well, the same way the farmers currently supply food. If you have a purpose grown crop you are going to have to store it. The farmers have one growing season now for just about everything. So what you end up doing is you learn how to store it. I could have put some pictures up of our site down in Rockwood. We have 2,000 pounds, I'm sorry 2,000 tons of switchgrass. Quite a sight. But a lot of the material can be feedstock like sawdust for instance. One of our biggest orders is from one of the largest lumber mills in the world. They have a continuous supply of that sawdust. And so they are going to use it to make liquid fuel. And so for them they generate enough sawdust to make 60 million gallons a year of liquid fuel. So biomass, the biomass piece of it though is a very important piece. You have to be very cognizant of it. But because we are so flexible on the feedstock you can get it from a lot of different places. For instance in our area we may want to use switchgrass and yard waste as the primary and we may want to fill in what railroad ties which we can get because we have more on a rail. It is one of the big advantages. Okay. Jim, would you ask? We spent a lot of time talking about that this morning. Food waste is a prime target for us and we have a lot of requests for that. What they call MSW or municipal solid waste. The problem with municipal solid waste is how do you prepare that front end material, that MSW or what we call RDF refuse derived fuel so that it is available to go into our system. We run a lot of it and we worked with a company, another company in Tennessee called Waste Away. They take all the garbage in and they take out everything that is recyclable and then they put through an automatic autoclave what is left. It comes out as a material that is fantastic and perfect for feeding in our system and it runs very well, maybe about 5% less than say a woody material. But it is expensive and they use a lot of energy to prepare it. So we are looking for a good solution on that front end preparation that we can bolt onto ours. I would like to ask a question about first of all to say it, the question is at what level are you now on power? How many tons a day or a month are you processing for getting one? How many tons a day? Okay, it will be about 10 tons a day to run that plant at a half a megawatt. We have run everything, it is a start up so we are working some bugs out of the system but they generated up at 200 megawatts. I think we will thank Dr. Weaver right now and anyone else can come up and ask questions afterwards. Thank you very much.