FAILING FARM!? Will I be able to pull this $5M Farm off from scratch!? | Farming Simulator 25 Part 4
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1Rn2GyCAoJs
Gaming
 pre captions We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. So we play this game on Tuesdays and Thursdays. We're just going to keep on rebuilding that farm. My goal is to make a $10 million farm, everybody. A $10 million farm starting from scratch with no experience at all. This is ridiculous, dude. I don't know what I got myself into. Hey, what's up? Hey, what's up? It's good to see you. Man, congestion, everybody. So how's your guys' day? You guys having a good day today? Hey, what's up, Kira? Welcome in. It's good to see you, Kira. I just got home from work. I just got home from work about almost an hour ago. Actually, literally an hour ago. And I'm feeling good. I'm feeling good today. I'm doing good, Kira. I'm doing good. You can skip out, ready to stream with y'all. Get down on this farm and simulator 25 and continue this farm. And then there's people who are reaching out, asking me to play freaking Ranch Simulator. I'm actually thinking about playing that, too. I've been drawing since Sunday. Heck yeah, Kira. What are you drawing? You still working on that comic book? That's freaking awesome. Just popping in to see how everybody is before I go to sleep. All right, Speofy. Oh, yeah, man. Get some sleep because I know it's late over there for you right now. Isn't it like 1 o'clock or something like that right now? 1 o'clock in the morning, dude? I got the art bug. There ain't nothing wrong with that, Kira. You always got to keep that creativity sharp 100%. 100%. And everybody, I got my farmer's hat on today. I got my pride shirt right here. Hey, Moo. Yo, what up? I found your page on Instagram two days ago. Maybe even trying to catch it. Hey, what's up, man? Welcome in, Amoo. Amoo69, dude. Thanks for stopping by. We're getting down with some Farmer Simulator 25, so I don't know what game you saw me playing. I'm going to assume it was Drive Beyond Horizons, bro. I play that game Mondays, Fridays, and Saturdays. So stay tuned for that one. It's a good one. I appreciate you, Kira. Thank you so much for that. I try, everybody. I try the best that I can. But you know what? We're going to jump straight into this game, guys. We're going to get this game just up and going right now. Because I'm feeling it. I've been feeling it, dude. And we got to get this farm going. We got to get this farm going. I think I'm doing okay for starting from scratch. I mean, I did get a financing mod to help me out a little bit. But we got to get this farm going, guys. We got to get this farm going. So we're going to switch on over there. I'm going to go live on the good old TikTok real quick. Hold up. I forgot to set all this stuff up. Man, dude. I think we're good over here. Hold up, everybody. Bear with me. Bear with me. There's always something that I'm forgetting to do. And it seems to be I'm always forgetting to freaking set up TikTok first. I think we're good there. All right. We're going live now. All right. Watch them all, brother. I saw one of your reels. I just went scrolling through them all. I appreciate it, man. Hopefully you enjoy the content, dude. Hopefully you enjoy the content because I'm having fun making it. I'm having fun streaming. I'm having fun making all that content, dude. And it's nothing but a good time. It's nothing but a good time. And I'm meeting nothing but awesome people. Everybody who seems to come into the good old pride chat, everybody, seems to be freaking awesome. I appreciate you guys all for that. Hey, what's up, Archon? Welcome in, bro. Welcome in. All right. Let's get into this dang game right here. Let's get into this game. We've got to see where we left off first of all. All right. All right. So here we are, everybody. Hey. Archon with the bromance blur, dude. It feels like a little laggy right now. Oh, now it just popped up. That's real laggy. Something's up. Something's up. It is what it is. It'll sort itself out, sure. All right, everybody. But check it out. Here we are. Here we are. Here is the farm that we are working on starting from scratch. Got some lime down there. What are all those rocks still doing up, dude? Didn't they rule the land? I thought the rulers put all them rocks back in the earth. Hold up. Hold up. I already forgot how to do this. I already forgot how to do this. I think it's on the map. Farmland. There we go. There we go. Yeah, there's a few stones. So the dude didn't do a very good job. He didn't do a very good job. That's the problem. It's all good. It is what it is. Yeah, bro. I've been meaning to catch a stream, but today I'm finding out we're on two different time zones. It's eight for you right now? Got it. What's that? Yeah, it's 454 for me right now, bro. Damn, where are you from, dude? Look at all them rocks. Oh my gosh, dude. Okay, it is what it is. We might take a little bit of a harvest loss, but that is what it is. Let's check out some of these contracts real quick. We're going to get this going. So here's a cultivating for 5,000 bucks. We're going to get this one going right here. We're going to borrow the items, too, because that's the way to do it, in my opinion. Tired. Still working. You're still working, Archon? You on a break or something? Or you're just working overtime, dude? Blizzard, 33 at 6.55 where you're at, Blizzard? Welcome in, Blizzard. So today, Archon, we're just going to try to keep making money, dude. Hopefully we can... This crop will start growing a little bit. I didn't put the seed down. I didn't put the seed down. That's what we got to do. Which one was the seed? Wait, did I put the seed down? Hold on here. I think we did put the seed down. Yeah, we did. Never mind. We're good. Shit, now I'm second-guessing myself. How do you check? Oh, no. Oh, no. Growing. Okay, we're good. We're golden. We got this, guys. It is growing. So let's go get this worker up and running. No. Finishing my reports. I'm behind. I need to have them done. Dang. Yeah. Archon, if you can't stick around, bro, I completely freaking understand, dude. I do not want to be the reason why you are even more behind, bro. I will tell you what, though, dude. You are, like, hands down the best mod. You're the best mod out there, bro. I appreciate you, bro. Okay. Okay. So where do we got to go? We have to go to 23. 23. So we got to go right. Take this road for a long time. Hmm. And then make another right and get up to 23. All right. We're good. I know where we're at. I say that now, but you know what, dude? Probably going to end up getting lost again. Hey, what's up, Heavy Chevy? Welcome in, dude. Hey, man. How's it going? It's going good, bro. How about yourself? Welcome to the stream, bro. We're getting down with some Farming Simulator 25 today, guys. Continuing the Starting From Scratch series where we will be building a farm. I started off with no money. I had no money at all. Now we have $121,000. I did add a mod to it, though, a financing mod. So we did, you know, kind of cheat the system a little bit, I guess. But not really. It made it more realistic. Stray Bullet. Hey, what's up, Stray Bullet? Welcome in. Good to see you. Hey, hold up. Hold up. I'm getting gifs over here on TikTok. I appreciate you guys. I can't see nothing. Thank you for the rose. I appreciate that. Hopefully TikTok doesn't get up again today. No, I'm always doing my work while I watch you. Thank you. I try to be. Well, I appreciate you, Archon. I appreciate you. And today we're not going to almost get hit by a train. I promise. I promise. It ain't going to happen. What are you just... What are just some of the games you play? Stream. You know, I stream a whole bunch. But lately I have three games that I'm cycling between right now. And I'm doing like series on them. So obviously I'm doing Farming Simulator 25. Hold up. Am I lost already? Now we're good. So right now I'm doing Farming Simulator 25. I do that on Tuesdays and Thursdays. Basically we're just... It's a series where I started from scratch. I have no experience with this game. I've never played any one of these games. And we're going to try to build a $5 million farm. And then Mondays... Mondays and Saturdays are Drive Beyond Horizons. And we're just... We're towing a car during that series. And I'm trying to rebuild every single one of those vehicles. All the vehicles in the game. You know, in one long drive. And then for... Sunday... I play Car Dealer Simulator, dude. And that goal is basically build a $10 million car business. That's going to consist of nothing but muscle cars and sports cars. And after I'm done with one of those games, I'm going to move on. I'm thinking about Ranch Simulator next. Or possibly My Garage. Which I'm having a big, big feeling this is going to be My Garage. Because that game is... That game is actually really fun. It's actually really fun. And... I'm good. Helping with bricks. I was watching the other streams of Drive Beyond. Kind of in silence. Hard to chat on the forklifts. I hear it, dude. I hear it. I do warehouse work myself, man. I'm actually... I train people on forklifts now, dude. I used to be the guy who used to operate them all the time. I still operate them occasionally. But now I'm a trainer, bro. He's supposed to play Hello Kitty Island. Oh yeah, that's right. People freaking voted on a poll on that. Oh, Archon, I forgot. I'm going to have to freaking honor that, dude. Yep, guys. I'm going to have to play Hello Kitty Island. You guys are going to have to bear with me on that one. That was you, huh, Archon? You made that ridiculous poll. Never have 3,000 sheep because you're constantly feeding them. I did it yesterday. 3,000 sheep stray bullet? Dang. How much land do I have? I barely have any land. Whoop. I had to replace the pen down. Dang. That's insane. Maybe. All right. What other contracts do we got going on here? There's a fertilizing one. Ain't going to mess with any of that stuff. Spinach. Red beet spinach. I don't want to mess with the beets, dude. I'm not skilled for the beets. So there's really not that many contracts going on. So what the hell can I do in the process? In this area, there is a problem with Deadwood. Help the owner and cut down all dead trees. Each tree is already marked. You can sell them afterwards. Oh, man. But see, the thing is, is how... I'm going to give this a shot, guys. I'm going to give this a shot. See what happens. We'll try Deadwood. What do you guys think? Should we do Deadwood? No, hey, I love cars, too. My dad owns a big company of auto body shops, but it's just car-related games. For the most part, I guess you would say that. It just really depends on how I'm feeling, because right now, I've been playing a lot of simulator games. I'm having a blast playing the simulator games, but there could be a time where I actually go back to RPGs, because I do love RPGs, too. Hey, what's up, Justin? Welcome in, dude. I'm not going to be able to be in chat. I'm pulling weeds, and it's flooded. Dude, not a problem, Justin. Not a problem. I appreciate you lurking, at least, man. And welcome back in, bro. My trainee quit. Said it was too hard. This is a very easy job. That's how it goes, man. That's how it goes. All right, we're going to do this, guys. We're going to do the farmland. Is Drive Beyond Horizons free? Brayden, no. Unfortunately, Drive Beyond Horizons is not free. I mean, the demo's free. You can play the demo to test it out. Hey, what's up, Ivy? Welcome in. Yes, Deadwood. All right, let's do it. Borrow items. Borrow items. Let's go. Dude, we're doing this one by ourselves. Whoops. I have no idea how to use this thing. I have no idea how to use this thing. So we got to go all the way to 86 down there. Where that blades at right there. So we got to go left. All right, let's go. Let's go. This thing is slow. This thing is slow as molasses, everybody. What is going on here? It's going to take forever to get there. Spiofi, just a reminder, you should probably update the streaming schedule on Twitch. It's not updated? Oh my gosh. Thanks for that, Spiofi. I got to do that for sure, bro. Is it easy, Ivy? Thank goodness. I was unsure. I was unsure. I'm so happy you just joined the stream. I appreciate it, Ivy. Pro level right there, everybody. Ivy is pro level. What do you do for work outside the stream, right? Yeah, I work full time, unfortunately, man. I'm trying to make this a living. But I do. I've been working in the same warehouse for about 12 years now, dude. I'm an operations manager at a warehouse. But yeah, I work 40 plus hours a week. Got a wife and a daughter. I spio him this stream for about two hours. Because I've got to make room for my family, you guys. You know what I'm saying? But I also, I believe in the dream. I believe in the vision. My wife supports me. So I'm going after it 100%. Miss you on Sunday. Not a problem, Ivy. It's not a problem at all. I think you went back and watched a little bit of the live, though, didn't you? Because you were talking about it a little bit. Or you missed... On Sunday, Sunday I was playing Car Dealer Simulator. So he didn't miss Farming Simulator. Driver, we're getting down here. Slowly but surely, we will make our way to the Deadwood. Hey, what's up, Bearded Magpie? Welcome in, dude. It's good to see you. It's back to lurking for me. I'll still be here. Alright, man. I appreciate it, Heavy Shabby. Thank you for the lurk, dude. Thank you for the lurk. And be safe on that forklift, bro. Be safe on that forklift. Hey, Captain Redbeard. What's up, man? Welcome in, dude. Welcome in. We are continuing the starting from scratch series. Hey, dude. That person thought I was too slow. I can't believe they actually do that in this game, dude. They'll just go past you. That person is speeding. That person has somewhere to be right now. Oh, my gosh. Whoa, whoa, whoa. I'm driving off the road. Sorry. Sorry, van. Hey, that kind of looks like the van that I sold in Car Dealer Simulator. Except it's red. You guys, I'm thinking about painting a red van in Car Dealer Simulator now. Heck yeah, brother. I saw your content. I'm driving entertaining. I knew I wanted to come watch for a few free hours. I do enjoy your stuff. I appreciate you, man. I appreciate you. Welcome in, like I said before, bro. Like I said before. This looks sick. Dude, Captain Redbeard, this game is a really good game, bro. Like, I was very skeptical about it when I first started it up. But once you get into it, man, there's a lot to it. It's a little overwhelming at first, man. I'm still kind of overwhelmed, but you know what? I'm having a good time with it. We're going to get that $10 million farm. That's the bottom line. I'm going to make it happen. I have, like, no idea how any of this stuff worked either. The great game hog. I had to rent a server with G portal to save a 16x farm. Did you? Dang, dude. You could have the AI drive there while you do something else. You could do that, Ivy? How the hell do you do that? Oh, my gosh. I'm still learning something new every day. Justin Weaver. I appreciate it, Justin. It's a good hat right here, dude. Freaking good old Bass Pro Shop Pro member status right there. All right. I'm going to go now. Y'all have a good day and night. All right, Spiro Feet. Dude, have, you know, sleep well. Get some good rest, bro. And I appreciate you stopping by and saying what's up, dude. It's 1 a.m. It's 1 a.m., but too thick. Aw, man, bearded magpie. That sucks, bro. Okay, how am I supposed to get this? What tree is it? I just see a green dot on the map. I should probably go and freaking... You probably create Jabra AI to get their, like, GPS. I don't know. I don't know. I just learned how to turn the game on this year. Nah, it's a map feature. It's a map feature. What do you mean, Ivy? What do you mean? See if you'd come on Sundays. Oh, yeah. My bad. My bad. I didn't even think about that, Ivy. I didn't even think about that. How am I supposed to do this? If you select the vehicle, you can pick the destination. Okay. Okay. What, do I got to take out all these trees or something? I'm so confused with this. Now, there's no... The AI won't do this, huh? I'm gonna start chopping down all these trees. I think it might be this tree right here. I think it might be this tree right here. Alright, let's do this. Turn this baby on. Alright, look at that. Look at that. Look at that. Oh, you gotta control it. Okay. How do you open that thing up? Only cut the ones that are dead and have X marks on them. Oh. Hold up here. We gotta get out. The ones that are dead that have X marks on them. Okay, let's look. Oh, there's one right there. There's one right there. Is it just gonna be that one, maybe? Oh, there's one right there, too. One, two. Three. Alright, let's do this. Let's get it. I appreciate that. Florida. Florida. Hey, what's up? TG, welcome in. Oh, my gosh, dude. It is crazy driving like this, guys. How are you supposed to drive this thing? Is this one dead right here? So, I believe this was one of them for sure. So, we're just gonna go straight ahead. Alright, let's do this. That's neat. I was wrong. It's all good. It's all good. The great game hog. I can't see. I gotta drive like this. Alright, let's get this, baby. Let's cut her down. Release tree. Let's get this. I can't see. I can't see. I can't see. I can't see. I can't see. I can't see. Release tree, turn off How do you raise it? Oh my gosh, I think I screwed this up, huh? You probably start from the top The contract tells you how many there are I like how the game punishes you for knocking down the wrong trees Does it really, Chris? Oh my gosh, I gotta be careful I just wanna say, I love your videos I appreciate it, TG I appreciate it Alright, we probably got to bust out a chainsaw for that baby right there Alright, let's go find another one There's one right here, too I'm gonna start from the top As far as I can go, I guess Nah, it's not gonna work Let's just get straight from the bottom I'm gonna have to chop this thing up into pieces With a freaking chainsaw, guys And I'm gonna have to bring my truck over here, too Yeah, it dings you like 500 bucks for every wrong tree Oh my gosh Get down, tree Get down So Ivy says It says in the contract how many trees there are So we got There's 10 trees There's freaking 10 trees, you guys You gotta be No way No way, dude Oh my gosh Guys, we're gonna be here forever We're gonna be here forever I gotta make sure this is one of the trees Alright, that's one of them Oh my gosh, guys 10 freaking trees Those machines you are supposed to What? You're supposed to, like 3 with the 2 arm Folder Huh Says you have to Cut them, not Shop Them into pieces I know, but I can sell the wood Great game, Hog I can sell I can sell the wood So I can make a little bit of extra money from it Let's get her Let's get her Oh yeah, dude Oh yeah, that's what's up right there Get down, boy Get down Timber Oh, dude I usually just run around with a chainsaw for these contracts For everybody that's a pain Oh, you know what? I didn't even have to get this equipment then You're right You're right You're absolutely right I'm gonna run around with a freaking chainsaw That makes way more sense Let's do this We gotta find all them dead trees first That's not a dead tree right there Where are them dead trees at? You can't sprint with a chainsaw? Well, I guess you can't, huh? That's kind of safety, huh? It would be better if you used an excavator I think we're just gonna stick with the chainsaw TG Hey, what's up, Nightjohn? Welcome in Just throw the whole log in your trailer Probably I don't think you can pick them up You gotta cut them into pieces in order to pick that up Ivy? Why are you laughing, Ivy? Ivy? Okay Let's run around and find these trees Alright, so noted Next time we gotta chop down trees I'm just using a chainsaw, dude Because that just makes way more sense That makes way more sense Ah, okay, Chris, the Canadian Who told them? Ivy? Alright, let's cut this baby down right here Oh, yeah, dude Look at that Yo, Mr. Farmer Nick Hey, what's up, Luxie? Welcome in We were just chopping down some trees, dude Getting this contract going Now, here's my question If I chop these trees down And I finish the contract Can I still pick up the wood? Or will all these trees just, like Randomly disappear? Oh, this is way out of the way It's not gonna be around here Those are dead trees, though Those are dead trees You need the speed of light, chainsaw Is that like a modded chainsaw ivy? That tree's definitely not dead That tree looks dead right here That tree is not dead Oh my gosh, I'm gonna be running around These freaking woods forever Dude, I'm gonna get lost out here, guys I'm gonna get lost out here There's only ten, dude And they're all in this red circle What am I doing? I swear, I've been here before I've been here before, everybody I have I feel it in my soul Hey, what's up, Papa Bear? Someone called Bigfoot for backup I need his help, man I freaking need Bigfoot's help The logs disappear once you collect the contract But if you haul them away And sell them Or process them before collecting the contract You keep them How do you do that, though? That seems like a lot of work That tree's definitely dead, dude Come here It is dead No, it's not Never mind That tree's fully alive This thing is fully alive There's gotta be one right there No What about up in here? Okay, I'm gonna have to track where I'm at Everybody I'm gonna have to track where I'm at Right now, we're near 86 We're near lot 86 I cannot forget that Ooh, dead Dead tree right there Come on, please Please It's not Whoa, whoa What about down over yonder? Yeah, dude Don't run from work Shift with the chainsaw You can walk a little faster Shift with the chainsaw It's not working, dude It's not working It's not working We're gonna figure this out, guys We're gonna find all them dead trees All this dead wood We're gonna chop it all down We're gonna get this contract done And we're gonna have a little bit of extra money Come on, dude You're not dead You're not dead What about you over here? You are dead Yeah Medieval dynasty Medieval dynasty They are over yonder They are over yonder There's another one over there, guys I see it You can only run with the chainsaw If you have the lumberjack mod installed Not vanilla Okay, I'm gonna have to get the lumberjack mod installed That's the bottom line Okay, I'm assuming we have two more Whoa, dude I gotta be careful I almost got crushed right now Here, let's help it out a little bit You gotta fall You're gonna kill the other trees That didn't help Alright, let's move on Let's move on What about you, buddy? What about you? You ain't dead That one's not dead You never know, though You never know I gotta check the whole perimeter Alright, we're good We're good We're golden What about you? What about you? You're not dead either Oh my gosh, man We're gonna be here forever How many of we gotta find? How many are left? There's two left Alright, man Wish me luck, everybody There are two left Gotta be up here somewhere I could've swore there was another one up here that I missed Hey Who was that? Who did that? The goat was summoned by Not Your Hometown Hero Welcome in, Not Your Hometown Hero My stream's really laggy right now, guys Is the quality good, at least? Because the blurps are lagging pretty bad Hey, what's up? Zooming, welcome in The last one or two Always take forever to find I bet, Chris I bet, man I set myself up here Okay Okay They gotta be up over here Watch, I'm gonna end up quitting this contract, guys I'm gonna end up quitting this contract We're gonna be doing this for hours Trying to find two freaking trees In a small little red circle Two hours later I know Not your hometown hero I know, dude Extreme quality's fine I appreciate it, Chris I appreciate it, man That is good to know Where would you be? Where would you be hiding, tree? I'm coming for you I'm gonna get you I think that's it right there Come on Come on Come on No Could they, like, be slightly outside the red circle by chance? Is that possible? Maybe we should walk the road Let's walk the road And just look around for the trees real quick Could be down here Hold up, dude I'm already going off Beaten path I make a plan Then I immediately switch my idea around, dude That's how That's how I roll Next to the top field Next to the top field Which one? 87 or 78? Top field Talking about 86? Was there one up there? Do you have any Fun plans for the 4th? Just watch some fireworks, dude And that's it Probably do a little stream, actually When is July 4th? What day is that? That's Friday, right? There ain't nothing up here There ain't nothing up here Righty, got it, yeah Yeah, I'm gonna do a stream I'm gonna be streaming Drive Beyond Horizons Just for a little bit I don't drink or nothing like that, guys I've been sober for, like, four years So I don't do much partying Or anything like that I just kind of You know Spend time with my wife My daughter We'll watch fireworks Probably do a little bit of fireworks In our yard But nothing that You know Dangerous like If we do fireworks here We'll get like A thousand dollar fine So I don't want to get hit With that sucker, dude Ivy, no Oh my gosh Dude Dude Dude You gotta be No way Tree's somewhere This tree is somewhere Might have been a flower thought Saw the eggs Where at, little Chewy? Crossed the road? Oh my gosh I think I read that message way too late I think I crossed like Three roads We're lost in the woods, guys We're lost in the woods No way No way No way It cannot be this hard I tell me I'm gonna lose my mind, guys I'm gonna absolutely Lose my mind I'm gonna lose This guy's equipment too What about this? No, hey Thanks for the Follow zooming I appreciate it, man Welcome in Congrats on being sober For that long, man Yeah Thank you Heavy Chevy I appreciate it, dude Could not have done it Without my wife, dude My wife And obviously My daughter Enhanced it too But, you know It's just not for me, dude It's not for me Help me follow my dreams And everything too If I didn't stop drinking I wouldn't be here right now, guys That's the bottom line That's the bottom line Watch the drunk guy One year Light off fireworks Get the cops called on And then as soon as they left Start again Yeah, that's what they do, man That's what they do Dude, we're not gonna find this tree, guys No way No way What's up with that tree? That one's glitched out, dude That one's floating That one's floating too There's some glitched trees Up in these woods, guys Some witchcraft going on here I'm getting myself dizzy Spinning around like that Oh my gosh We're gonna find these trees I gotta focus I gotta focus Whoa, whoa, whoa Dead tree right here It's a dead tree But you know what? It's outside the red circle Suck Hi, this is upsetting What's up, upsetting? Welcome in, bro He was staggering So much He was almost falling over Do you want to know A way to find Yes, I do, Chris I do, 100% I hate how they put the X On the brush Same here You're watching a VR zooming? Hell yeah I would love to stop smoking But I get really bad anxiety At work So many times I do it Is when I'm at work Understandable, man Understandable I don't do that anymore either Don't do that anymore either, man I'm telling you guys I'm telling you guys right now If I were to smoke and be live I would be freaking paranoid, bro It would not happen It would not happen Hey, what's up, Joseph? Welcome in Iron Lion Go into construction mode As if you were placing A building You can fly through the whole area And zoom in and out Makes it easier To spot them Okay, I think that's Shift-P, right? How do you change The camera angle, though? That's That's my question Hold Right mouse It's not working, dude Or maybe the middle mouse Oh, there we go It is the middle mouse There we go Look at this Look at this Thank you for that Chris the Canadian This is probably gonna help me out A lot right here Come on, dude Come on, dude We're gonna find this baby Oh, that's getting me Dizzy That's getting me really dizzy I think there's one right there But I can't see The marking That's one right here But I don't even know Where I'm at Okay So there's the The green tractor Where's the tractor at? The tractor's right there It's gotta be over here Somewhere I could've Swear I saw A red marking On that thing, dude Maybe not Maybe not Maybe not Oh my gosh This is gonna be This is gonna take me Forever guys Hi, I'm watching I'm watching on my Phone MVRs I'm zooming Out upsetting Hey, what's up, man? Now find it I mean, like nicotine I've been THC free For years now When I started Oh, got it Got it I hear that, Chevy Yeah, I do a little bit of I do a little bit of nicotine I do a little bit of nicotine myself Man I just don't do it live on camera You guys I don't agree with that Hey, thanks for the follow I appreciate it This is why I don't do Yeah, I'm not gonna do it anymore Chris, Canadian I'm done I'm done Ivy Ivy, you set me up Ivy Lagmonkey Thanks for the follow, man You know, wait Hold on Hold on If I Like shift P And just look above the horizon I might be able to spot a dead tree Like right there The question is How far away is that? That could be it Right down at the bottom of that hill That could be one of them Let's go check it out Hey Not your hometown here With the bromance blur Lagmonkey Least I can do As thank you for The raid yesterday Not a problem, lagmonkey Not a problem at all, man Hope you had a good stream I'm trying to find some trees Chopped down right now, dude And I'm struggling Yep This is the tree right here, guys But That's not the one we're looking for Alright, let's try this again Shift P We're gonna look up So I'm right there There's one right there There's one right there Okay, so where am I at? Alright, let's go check this out Hey, I'm setting with the freedom blur, bro Oh, don't tell me that was one we already chopped down Oh, man We chopped it down But, you know, we didn't chop it down Alright, let's do this again Let's do this again Shift P You guys, they're all gone We chopped all them trees down Do they have to be completely down, though? That's my question now Like, do they have to be completely fallen over? Dude, that thing is just Balancing right there Just do a grid walk I did I did, Ivy It didn't work Oh, oh, here we go Here we go Where's it going? Where's it going? Nah, that wasn't the issue Maybe we should just chop every single freaking tree down I'm gonna chop them all down, guys That's the bottom line I'm chopping every single one of these things down Until we find the right one I'm just gonna look up in the sky and walk I'm never doing this again, dude We're so close I feel it in my heart I can't quit And, hey, you gotta try them all You're right, Ivy You're right What's up, Saxon Nipple? Welcome in, dude Welcome in We're trying to find a freaking tree A dead tree so we can chop it down I can't find it anywhere, dude We're missing two of them Oh my gosh What, what, what? Oh my gosh It's not it either Dude, they're gone My game is glitching Dude, I've come to the conclusion that my game is 100% glitching That's the bottom line These trees are all gone I chopped them all down There's nowhere to be found They're nowhere to be found I'm way out of the wrong spot, too Take the machine and knock it down Are you talking about the one I already did? Oh my gosh Hey, we got one contract done, though Hold up here Hold up here Let's complete it Get 5,000 bucks We're collecting her Bam Is there any other contracts now? Got some fertilizing Some harvesting I ain't messing with any of those Some spring Some wood transfer Nope, this is it This is it Dude Dude Dude Dude Come on It cannot be this freaking hard With this little tiny red circle That we're in right now There's no way There's absolutely no way This is one of them This is one of them, dude But it's right outside the freaking area Go up the tower and look Oh Where's that tower at? I know, Archon I know Come here, tower I need you Go up the ladder and look Alright, sexy nipple You're all on the same page right now Let's go check it out Up, up, up I can't even do that right There's no way I'm gonna see anything from here I can't see anything from here, dude Gotta go up higher Oh, wait a second Collect, bro 10,000 bucks right there Hell yeah Dude, this is a good spot Thank you guys for having me come up here I just found a collectible Right on, dude I know, Ivy There's only two left I gotta quit, though I think I'm gonna quit Check the roof I'm not gonna be able to see you guys Wait, there's a roof Check the roof What do you mean? The great game hog Did I miss something up there? Can I get on the roof? Yeah, I call it a roof, everybody Archon always gives me hell for that one Says it sounds like I'm barking What's that? Where'd it go, dude? I didn't throw that very well, dude I botched that one up Alright, let's check up over here Am I seeing nothing? What if I jump? Will I be okay? You can't die in this game, right? Right? What do you guys think? Should I try? There was a secondary ladder There was? Ladder inside Oh, you can't Yeah, you can't go up that, though There's a ladder there, but Jump, Frank, jump Alright, let's jump Let's see what happens, guys You did not toss The ball If I didn't Where'd it go? Freedom Oh, dude I'm superhuman, guys I'm 100% superhuman, dude I'm a superhero I'm a superhero line Up in this game, dude Okay Okay I could've swore There was another one Over here somewhere Damn it Come on, dude Come on Could this be a dead tree Right there? Are they all the same Like, looking dead trees? What about you, dead tree? You, dead tree? You're not a dead tree You just passed No, I didn't, Chris What are you talking about, Chris? Where at? Back there You talking about this one? That's not dead, unfortunately Hey, what's up, Alpha? How you doing, man? We're trying to find some dead trees To chop down But I can't find any more We only have two left Over yonder I'm totally screwing with you I just abandoned the contract I think I'm going to, guys My game glitched I've come to the conclusion That my game glitched There's no more dead trees here Alright, guys All in favor of quitting this contract Say aye Aye Xbox or PlayStation I think it's on both I'm playing on PC, though Skill issue I know, Roteman I know, dude I've You know, I've got a long ways To go with this damn game Everybody's saying aye, though Wait a second Wait a second I think I said it back To that tree Like, at least ten times now Guess they're all dead And marked Okay What game is this? BigDoc69? It's called Farming Simulator 25 What if you cut that tree To land in the red zone? Let's try it Let's try it real quick Let's try it Because I was having the same Kind of thought Cut up the ones you Down first What? What? What? Yeah, that's not working Try this one It is a good game I play on the Xbox It's fun It's really fun I'm just You know Not doing too good right now, man I've never played Any one of these games before And I started from scratch So I thought it'd be A genius idea I'm having fun, though I'm having fun Even just doing that Just chopping up wood Like, that's satisfying That's dangerous I know I know Archon It's extremely dangerous Yep, not working, guys Not working It's a fantastic game But steep learning curve 100% Chris 100% steep learning curve Alright, we're quitting this contract We wasted enough time here Almost accepted the contract Let's get out of here Sorry, dude I give up, man Only lost 200 bucks, though We can take that loss We're good with that loss Are there any other contracts now? Ivy, how long did you say It takes for the contracts to Spawn back in? I can't, Robert I already freaking quit The damn contract What's up, Justin? Welcome in Contracts, contracts There's fertilizing There's harvesting There's spraying What is going on with our land Right now? I don't think anything I think we just gotta wait Any suggestions, guys On what I should do right now? I mean, would it be a good idea To just go to sleep And wait for the next day? Sounds like Time to mention the contest Sounds like time to Like, time to mention the contest I shall do it, Archon You can chop trees on your land And haul them to the solace Yeah, I should do that Because I do gotta make some space Look at this, guys Look what I did This is how fantastic I am at this game Watch, check it out I was like, you know what, man I'm gonna put this shed right there Because that's the only spot That I can put it Without chopping down any trees Look what I did, dude I took up, like Almost six feet Off my freaking harvest field With this damn shed It is what it is, though, guys It is what it is And if I were to just Freaking cut down What, just a couple trees I would've been able to Push it back That exact six feet That I needed You know Anyway Don't farm carrots They take too long Yeah, I know I'm not going to I'm not going to But I do got an announcement Archon did just bring it up If you guys Can help me and my wife out a lot This would really help me And my wife out a lot So my wife entered this competition Called America's Sweetheart Contest We have the potential To win $20,000, guys Me and my wife Have the potential To win $20,000 And We are actually doing A giveaway If we do win the $20,000 Over on the Discord If you guys Help with the voting And we win this money We'll be giving away $1,000 to somebody So If you guys want to help out And get in on that I'd be much appreciated I'd be much appreciated And I am the next day But Me and my wife We've been together For 16 years, guys We've been together For a very long time She helped me get me sober She changed my life And so I think This competition Would be really amazing To win It's life-changing money, guys So basically There's going to be A few phases The first voting range Lasts from July 1st All the way into July 10th And it ends at 7pm We just got to keep on Making it into The rankings For each phase So if you guys Can do me a favor Click on that link Take a screenshot If you guys do Take a screenshot Of the vote And then put it In the Discord section Where it talks about The giveaway And then You know You guys can enter that What's up Eat pizza What's up, man Bro and bake JC Are you good, JC? Are you good, man? I'd love to join Your live streams Whenever you're streaming Oh my gosh And Antoine Antoine over on Kick, guys We got a bot Over there We got a bot Over there But yeah If you guys can Help out with that That'd be much Appreciated, man It is 20,000 bucks, guys It is 20,000 bucks Thanks for that I'm not gonna lie I forgot about it I forgot about it, dude How the hell Do you forget About $20,000, guys Alright, anyways Anyways What are we doing here? Link will be pinned In the chat During the stream I appreciate you, Archon I appreciate you Um So, did we decide? 10 a.m. the next day Ivy says 10 a.m. the next day Alright, let's do it Sleep Alright, let's do this Let's do this 10 a.m. 10 a.m. The next day Why 10 a.m. Ivy? Is that when the Contracts spawned You were saying? Donuts In the truck Donuts in the truck Okay, let's do this Let's see what other Contracts are now Now we got some Fertilizing Ain't messing with Any of that Man, there's nothing Guys There's nothing here Harvesting Spinach Red beets So I'm assuming Spinach is a pain In the ass to harvest I'm not A mod here Hey, Archon Welcome in, dude Welcome in, man Over there on kick Skip another day Skip another day Because if I keep Skipping days That'll make my Harvest grow, right? Where are we at? How do you check Where we're at On that? It's growing All veggies Are Major Pita to harvest Very slow Machinery And has a very Tiny blade Okay Yes So we're gonna Skip another day Let's go For some reason I feel like it's Bad to skip days Is that Is that a bad Way of looking at it? Wait, did I even Sleep Before? I don't think I Slept, guys You can speed up The progress, too Bernardo I skip a month At a time So I got it set To where every Two days is a month Oh my gosh Look how much Money we just Lost right now Off all my Finances Oh my gosh, dude Is it growing? Is that the Wheat growing, guys? Is that my Beautiful farm? Look at all them Weeds I see a bunch Of weeds, though, too Nobody needs sleep It's not bad In real life My farmer Sit on their ass From November February Unless they have Livestock That's all weeds? Alright We're gonna hire AI to take care Of this forest Because I do have A weed machine So that's, you know That's where the Financing came into Play, guys Danny Beard I skip a month At a time Okay Have I been Paying this lady This whole time? Just sit there In the tractor? Don't tell me that Don't tell me that Lady Lady, you gotta go You gotta go I've just been Paying you for free Right now, I think Oh my gosh You don't have weeds I don't have weeds? So none of these Are weeds There's no weeds Inside here? Okay, we're good I would say in the Overlay if you had weeds It would say in the Overlay if you had weeds Weed So we're good We're good That's how my Neighbor is He don't do shit Half the year We're gonna put this Baby, you know Underneath the shed Where it belongs I am proud of my Equipment though Everybody Even though I don't Think I need A lot of this stuff Anymore Alright, let's check These contracts Here we go Cultivating 100% We're doing this one Again Borrow items We're gonna go Get this person To work There's gotta be Some more contracts Fertilizing Harvesting Plowing We'll do the Plowing for sure Borrow items Next contract Wood transport Never doing that again Never doing deadwood Again Fertilizing Harvesting Red beets Spinach Arsenips Green beans Ain't messing with Any of that stuff Alright, let's go get These lads all set up Just voted for you I appreciate it Augie Thank you for that, man And also you are One of my favorite streamers I appreciate you, Augie I try, man I try If you plowed No weeds If you cultivate You get weeds If you plowed No weeds I plowed weeds I plowed weeds, Chris For sure Don't forget to Screenshot it Don't forget to Screenshot your vote And put it in that Discord, everybody Bro, you should Play Roadcraft I'm thinking about it, Muhammad I'm thinking about it There's a lot of people That are suggesting Roadcraft to me But then again I do want to play Ranch Simulator Here that might be Even more technical Than this one And then I am going to be Playing this game Called My Garage Because that game Was just brilliant That game was brilliant Had a lot of fun With it Okay, so Where is this Contract at? First and foremost Over in Lot 60 Alright, where is Lot 60 at? Lot 60 is right There, dude It's right along the way We're almost there Already Let's get there I'm on Ranch Simulator Are you, Archon? Hell yeah, dude Is that Is it a good game, Archon? Because I watched A couple of the A little bit of the Gameplay on it It seems like It might be even A little bit more In-depth than this one, dude Yeah, it's pretty good Because I know You can go hunting In that game, too Which is kind of Seems like a good time Right there Hope you have an amazing week You too, Mason I appreciate it, man When are you going to Start building your farm? I am building the farm I'm building the farm I'll show you right now Oh, I passed it We're on the farm So this is my farm I got this little plot Of land right there I got my tent And we got our little Shed full of equipment But this is it so far This is it right here Better than nothing I would have to say We're making some progress We're making progress Slow but You know Sure progress Ranch sim has more Things you can do Like hunting and such But farming sim Is more fleshed out And has way better graphics Does it? Nice We're getting there, Augie We're getting there Chris I'm going to have to Give it a shot, though I'm going to have to Give Ranch Simulator a shot We're going way The wrong way We got to turn around We got to turn around Sorry, school bus That school bus Just tried to pass me, dude You got children in there You got to be safe What are you doing? You should Ranch Sim Is a great game I'll give it a shot So after this one If we can pull off This freaking $10 million Or $5 million farm I'm going to switch on over To Ranch Simulator And after Car Dealer Simulator I'm 100% playing My Garage Roar Hey, Chris Canadian I appreciate it, man Thank you for the follow, dude Oh my gosh I'm getting jammed on these freaking Signs I don't know what I'm doing Still don't know how to drive, guys If you watch me play any driving game I'm horrible at it We are almost to the field It's about time It's about time you sell the tent And move into a camper Can you get a camper Can you get a camper in this game? I think you might be able to get Like a little trailer But I only have $121,000 I got to be careful I got to be real careful Alright, here she is, man Here she is Get to work Get to work, worker I need your help Hey, so Lady Alice Paying for free To just sit in my property, guys Yes, you can Alright, let's do this plow now, too Alright, so the other lot was 60 This one is over in 46 Last time I tried to cross the ferry It did not let me do it So we're going to go the long way You can turn off the traffic Can you, upsetting? You just need to check out some new mods Yeah, I think I do, too, Aki I think I do, too They've got to be somewhat realistic, though For this whole little series I'm doing We did the guy love Death Eater with the guy love Welcome in, Death Eater Alright, so we're going to go We've got to hit the first left And then just stay right Alright, cool Demonic, what's up, Demonic? Welcome in, man It's good to see you, bro It was good, Death Eater It was good, I can't complain I'm home, I'm here, I'm alive I made it through my day What about with you, man? How was everybody's day at work today? You guys working hard? Hardly working? How's it going out there for y'all? Okay, so like I said The first left And then we're going to stick right Yes, hot Man Holiday here, Canada Day Oh, it's Canada Day? Heck yeah Heck yeah, Chris Oh yeah, welcome from Canada, bro Welcome from Canada Man, it's so weird Driving this thing As opposed to driving that freaking That machine that chopped down the trees That tree chopper That thing was Slow as molasses, dude I feel it though, Archon Workdays are always meh I just gotta Just gotta stay positive, dude That's the bottom line Just gotta stay positive Whatever you're doing in life, dude Because we're still here, man We're still here We're still kicking We're still breathing That's the bottom line And if you've got dreams And you've got goals, dude There is a light at the end of that tunnel, dude And he's gotta lock in on that thing Gotta lock in on that light It's good I have another nine hours to go, unfortunately But at least it's not like a million degrees Dang, heavy Chevy Do you have, um You work four tens or something? You gotta work positive But it doesn't last long I feel it, Demonic I feel it, dude 100% Yeah, that sure is the bottom line Cut down trees for fast cash I tried it, Augie I tried it But actually Actually I didn't Really cut down too many trees on my land Which is what I gotta do I had an awesome coloring stream earlier Heck yeah, Ivy Okay, drop this trailer I mean That lime I don't need that right now I'm probably not gonna drive on my Crop I guess that's probably like the worst spot To put all my machinery Look at that, guys That bums me out so much Look at that crap, dude That is six foot That is six foot Freaking wasted harvest land How long do you think this thing is? It's probably about What? 45, maybe 50 feet? That's some BS right there Alright So where did I put my trailer at? My trailer is over here I'm still working technically Yeah Definitely I got pneumonia Does that count? You got pneumonia, Ivy? Are you good? Are you okay? If you're going for more realistic with mods You should try realistic weather It adds road physics for snow and ice and such And a bunch of other fun stuff Oh my gosh Oh my gosh, Chris I'm gonna have to do that Sounds like a good time Oh yeah, dude I chopped down this freaking tree right there And never started picking it up I think I got discouraged Because of how Thick all that wood was I don't even think I could pick any of it up We're gonna try it though Hold up Might be able to just fill up my truck for now Half and half to mon it Was it just like wedged in there or something? Dude, this is gonna be a nightmare to chop into pieces, guys I don't know why I decided to chop this freaking tree down But it is what it is Let's get to work I wouldn't get anything done If I worked from home Man, dude Now, does specific wood sell better? That's the question right there Does specific wood sell better? That's probably why I'm dying Hey, what's up, OG? Lion, what's up, Pops? Welcome in, man How you doing? Welcome to the stream We're chopping down some wood Trying to get our farm going, man Okay, we need to get a better chainsaw This is gonna take forever to do this, guys This is gonna take A ridiculous amount of time Alright, let's go get a smaller tree real quick How about that? Let's try What tree don't I want? I didn't want that one So it was a good cut Give you a little tip Cutting the trees back Your trailer up to the tree And then it hits your trailer Hurry up, strap it in What? I don't think I'm skilled enough to do that But we'll give it a shot We're gonna give it a shot We're gonna give it a shot, dude Cause I'm kinda liking that idea I hope that's my tree and my land Okay, now we're just getting stuck If this works, that's gonna be brilliant Okay, what's the L Okay, so I gotta be quick I gotta remember L I'm gonna do it right there Cause I gotta be fast with this, guys I gotta be fast with this This is not a bad idea Alright, so we're gonna have to angle it Probably this way A tree always falls the opposite direction you're cutting Oh, so it always falls this way Okay Alright, here we go Here we go, guys Gotta be quick Gotta be quick Oh, no, that went left That didn't work That didn't work Okay, so I'm assuming they all go left Who doesn't have a bunch of chopped down trees in our backyard Alright I'm gonna assume that it just goes left And if we can catch this thing They fall into the finish point Of your saw Oh, god, dude Okay, so L I gotta be quick I gotta be so quick with this If this works If this works So the finish point of my saw So it will fall left It's that way Okay, here we go Here we go Here we go Here we go I believe in myself, guys I believe in myself We can do this We can do this Oh my gosh, dude Dude, we got it, bro No way Dude, that is genius That is freaking genius Am I gonna tip over? Oh my gosh, dude We caught this sucker Look at that Let's go sell it Dude, that's the most genius thing There's no way we're driving this through the town, dude There's no freaking way We're driving this sucker through the town I can't even get out of here Okay, okay, okay Get it back Get it through town I'm gonna try to, man I'm gonna try to Okay, where's the Oh man, we got a long ways to go, guys We got a long ways to go I can pull this off I think Because I think it's over At that yellow spot That yellow dot in the map Oh my gosh, that worked, man I can't believe that freaking worked Right here That's it Sawmill Okay Alright Alright We gotta make our way through Grandpa's Ranch right now Got through the open fields That'd probably be the best bet, Archon Oh my gosh I can't even tell What's going on, dude See if we can get through My ranch We can We got this Let's go Let's go Grandpa's gonna be so proud of me right now, you guys He's gonna be so proud of me He's gonna be like, how the hell did you pull that off? Grandson Grandpa, look what I got, dude I got a tree Alright, this is a bad idea Yeah, that's a bad idea That's a bad idea We might be stuck That's why I keep trying to show off, guys There's no way We're getting through there We might Be able to get over here If there's no, like, fool in the way Oh man, oh man It's a good thing I bought this truck, guys This truck is a mean machine right here You can drop the straps and redo it I'm scared I'm so freaking scared What if it Because it looks like it's gonna fall to the left even more, bro I think we're gonna try to hold on to it Okay, this isn't gonna work We're gonna have to go around somewhere else I wonder how much money I'm gonna get for this, guys We're gonna have to go this way Dude, I could Dude, I could do this all day now I could freaking Alright Anyway, guys Anyway Just dancing with the pole You know what I'm saying? Oh my gosh Oh my gosh Come on, let's go We got this We got this Uh-uh Uh-uh Yeah I don't think so, dude Not today Not today You can't drive a tree around in a pickup Hold my I'm sorry, sir I'm sorry, sir I'm working, though Okay, where are we at? We gotta figure out a way to go right Okay Okay Okay Oh, we're stuck We're stuck 100% If I reset my car Will that get rid of the tree? Okay That train will clear Yeah, for sure Imagine turning that corner On the back road And you just see that Dude, we're gonna make this work somehow We got it We got it We're out We're out We're out Let's go Let's move on Watch out, UPS man Oh my gosh, dude Oh my gosh I gotta just go real slow here Hey, thanks for the followers I appreciate it Oh man Oh man Oh dude, we're gonna pull this off We're gonna pull this off, everybody How many guys have seen Lord of the Rings, dude? I feel like I'm an ant They better give you like 20 Right? Who needs a willy bar When you have a whole tree? 100% Heavy Chevy 100% Dude Alright, now we just gotta follow this road All the way down I don't know how I'm gonna freaking be able to put it How I'm gonna get down that ramp Hey Join for one month Jay Whittaker I appreciate it, dude Thank you for that, man That means one thing One thing only Jay I gotta eat a bean Actually, it's your call, bro Is it a bean or a bug? What do you want, man? What do you want? How far you gotta go? Not too much further We just gotta follow a straight shot road And then The trickiest part's gonna get down Into where you sell the wood I don't know how I'm gonna pull that off It's a very tight area With a lot of trees So it's gonna be very tricky Bean Alright, dude Alright, Jay It's all random Oh, dude I think this one's liver Yep, this one's either Cappuccino Or liver and onions, dude Cappuccino or liver and onions, everybody Jay I appreciate that, bro You're the first one You're the first Official member, dude That's amazing Cappuccino 100% cappuccino That's delicious I appreciate it, Jay Thank you for that, bro There's a carpenter in the middle of town You can sell it It to at the back You don't need to go There's a carpenter in the middle of the town You can sell it at the back Okay That is great news That is great news, Chris We're almost to the middle of town There's a carpenter Where's he at? Dairy Grain Warehouse Grain Rent train Carpentry So right here Okay, let's see if we can get there We're right there I'm gonna tag this place Yep, let's go check it out Chris, you might have saved My whole journey, dude The only question is Can we make it across this bridge? You got lucky I did I got real lucky, Jay I got really lucky, bro Oh my gosh Alright I'm scared I'm so scared I don't think it's gonna be able to clear It's not gonna be able to clear that, guys We're gonna try it anyway It might be able to clear it It might kinda just phase through Oh, dude, it's phasing through It is phasing through Yeah, dude We got a whole freaking tree on the truck, man Probably not It did, dude It did I got so lucky I got really lucky with that right now, dude I got really lucky with that I bet you anything If it was like a foot higher It would not phase through Alright, there's a bunch of light posts here We gotta be careful, dude Light posts are the worst enemy They are the worst enemy How the hell am I gonna make it in the back of that place, though? Okay Watch out, red van Watch out, red van Oh, no problem We got this, guys We have got this, dude Here we go Now, do I just like leave it strapped in And go sell it Like the same way you would at the The wood place? Yeah, it's gotta park into that zone, huh? Or that zone Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa 20 Dude, if this is a $20,000 tree I just found a really nice hack for money Or actually Who told me that? Who told me to do this, dude? I forgot And I apologize $3,000 Hey, it's better than nothing Augie Thank you, Augie This is all Augies, dude 100% full credit, dude Does anybody else know about this, Augie? If they don't Man, you gotta You gotta make a freaking TikTok, dude You gotta make a TikTok I did Cut trees closer I'm doing good, Jacob I'm doing good Alright, we're gonna go do another one, guys $3,000 That wasn't bad That wasn't bad at all Drive Beyond Horizons had an update today No way No way Oh, dude What's the update? Who wants to see the update? I will show you guys the update right now I want to see that update so bad Looking right now No way, dude Oh my gosh, man I can't I'm not playing that game until Friday, though Yes, Jacob You wanna see it? It might be a little bit trickier for you guys Over on On TikTok, though Cause it's all It's all vertical format Alright, let's go chop down another tree While we wait for this news right here Adjustable car seats and steering wheel Adjustable car seats And steering wheel Okay Take a vote I would love to see the update Alright, let's check it out Let's check out the update real quick, guys I'm gonna pull it up Let's look at this thing real quick Where are you, Steam? Where are you, Steam? Oh, my update's queued I don't know, like, personal shit On this screen, is there? I don't think so Okay, here it is, everybody Here it is Can you guys see this over on TikTok? I think you can see it a little bit Can you show us? I'm showing you guys right now I'm showing you guys right now You can still go and look At the patch notes So what all do you stream on? Jay Whittaker I stream I stream on Kit TikTok YouTube And Twitch Okay, so here we go Hey, everyone We're back with a fresh update Focused on vehicle functionality Immersive interactions And a batch of quality Of life enhancements And bug fixes Here's what's new Black screen on startup Fixed resolving issue Causing a black screen I've never experienced that Adjustable car seats Like Demonic just said You can now move your car seat Steering wheel forward or backward Using the mouse wheel And yes, it saves between sessions Okay, interesting It is now possible to attach seats To vehicles with rear benches More options for customizing your ride That seems pretty cool That'd be fun for multiplayer Which we're playing on Friday By the way, guys Window controls You can open and close Your car windows manually That's pretty sick I like that UAZ ladder interactions Ladders are now usable On the UAZ vehicles Climb in and out with style That's pretty sick Okay This seems pretty good All usable ladders Now function properly And can be interacted with Dude Dude I remember one of the streams I was like It would be amazing If they could If you could use that ladder That's in those garages And you could use that To like climb up stuff Bro That's amazing Exploding mines RPG AK triggered Mines now detonate When shot with an AK or RPG Planner ambushes accordingly Love the background I appreciate it upsetting Thanks for that, man Playing the update now Heck yeah, Papa Bear Tell me how it is, dude Let me know if it's awesome Now what else is there? Increased tool durability Brushes and sponge Now last longer That has been requested By a lot of people It's been requested By a lot of people For those brushes And sponges To last longer That's amazing Okay Slot beer Slot beer buff fix Fixes buff Beers stored In slots Got permanent effect I don't know Anything about that Mirror fix Muscat River mirror Attachment for muscat Has been corrected Exhaust pack Four new Four new Exhaust added Customize your cars With some flare Whoa You can add new Freaking exhaust now Dude Dude I'm back when I miss Not your hometown here We're going through Demonic just let us know That there is an update For Drive Beyond Horizons So I'm going through All that with you guys Right now That seems incredible Okay Usable points of interest Ladders Points of interest now Include ladders That are fully functional So it looks like We're not going to be Needing that car seat Trick anymore guys We could just use a Freaking ladder The good old fashioned way Oh that's amazing That's amazing Thumbs up Thumbs up 100% Yeah Not your hometown hero Freedom dude Demonic Thank you for that man Aw dude That's a good update Demonic Thank you for letting me Know about that Dude that's going to be So fun That's going to be so fun And speaking of Multiplayer Friday You guys I'm down to play With people But you got to let me know In the discord If you can play or not Cause you know First come first serve Pretty much First come first serve Pretty much Anytime It's been way smoother For me Plus the Open windows Makes it getting In and out way faster Okay That's interesting Yeah Dude Heck yeah That's amazing Alright Let's get back to this game Guys Let's get back to this game Have any new motors No new motors yet No new motors yet Hey what's up Troy Welcome in bro It's good to see you man It's good to see you Demonic over here Just told us that There was an update For Drive Beyond Horizon So I just went through The whole The whole update With everybody dude Oh my gosh Alright But you know what Everybody I will be right back I need to go to the Bathroom real quick Can you train me The bat For the Sub-Zero gauntlets You want the bat Yeah Alright Drop it I'll give you a gun No I don't want a gun There you go Up Let's go Alright You guys see that? I got aapple enorme on me I wasn't gonna let that happen I got it! You announced it in Hell yeah! Beautiful! Oh my god, I didn't think that was gonna work! I didn't think that was gonna work! I'm sorry! Oh my god, you guys found that one camera. You just got ran over by his brain right now. I'm also buying shit in this floor. Good job guys, I'll supervise him. You're best at! Get the fuck out of here with that shit! Now it's gonna do it perfectly. Perfectly! Get it? Alright, finish the move right here. Oh! Oh my god, close your mouth! I'm pretty sure- Oh! Oh my god, dude! What is happening in my mouth right now? No! You stay away from me! It's gonna be too small! I got the- I got the- I got the sneaky sock! Got it, got it! Now there's a spider! Imagine if we had spiders that big real life, I would be- Dude, me too, bro! Me too, bro! Me too, I'm sorry! Hi everybody, I am back! I am back! I have returned! Troy. I'm still trippin' on the hat for farming Sim. I think Archon might be trippin' a little bit too, man! He called me- What'd he call me? He called me the Impostor Lion? Alright guys, let's go chop down some more wood. Are there any other- Oh, this contract's completed! Both of them are completed! Four grand? One thousand bucks? It ain't much, but you know what, dude? I ain't complaining. That's a financing payment right there. No new cars yet, Brandon! No new cars yet! Did you wash them hands? I did wash them hands, dude! What'd you guys do- Did you do another voting poll? Hey, what's up, Johnny Farms? Welcome in, bro! Welcome in! I don't know if you were here for it, but we just frickin' chopped down a whole tree. Hey! Grumpy Beard with a raid of three viewers! Grumpy Beard, welcome in, dude! Oh my gosh, man! I gotta say what's up. Hold up, I gotta say what's up. What is up, Grumpy Beard? I appreciate that raid, dude. I appreciate that raid. Welcome in, new viewers. I appreciate you guys. I appreciate you guys stopping by, hanging out. We're getting down with some farming simulator. 25 today. We are starting from scratch, and we're trying to build a $5 million farm. Hey, hey, for the follow, dude! Yeah, the pride war right there! Who was that? Not your hometown hero with the pride war dude, that came in clutch. That's perfect right there. That's perfect right there. But we are gonna build a $5 million farm. I've never played this game in my entire life before. Everything is new to me. We're actually pulling it off pretty good. Pulling it off pretty good. Hey, who did that fart blurb? Oh, it was Grumpy Beard, bro! I appreciate you, man. I appreciate you. Alright, let's get back into this game. Jay Whittaker, I'm gonna have to find those videos. I just found your channel a couple weeks ago by random, and been watching every video since. I appreciate it, Jay. Hope you're enjoying the content, dude. I'm having fun making it, dude. I'm having a lot of fun making it. And thanks again, man, for being the first official member, dude, of my YouTube channel. Hey, what's up, Oliver? Welcome in. A half-hour-pissed-a-22 hat, that would fit you perfectly. Do you, Demonic? You should take a picture of it instead of it in Discord, bro. Where are we going, dude? I'm lost right now. We're going way out of the way. I can make a left right here after this train passes. Nah, I'm just gonna hit the train tracks. We're good. Let's go. Let's go. Oh, I don't need to hit the train tracks. We can hit the road. You know, like Jack, dude. Hit the road like Jack. Where's my house? Where's my farm, dude? I'm lost. I think it's right there, to the left. Have you... Have him shred Grumpy. I have a way to make... I have way too many points to spend. You have too many points to spend Grumpy. Off the topic, but did you put... Did you get rid of the Pontiac? I did not, Johnny Farms. I did not. I actually do have to... Because I do separate videos for the cars that I fully restore. So I still got to make a video of me reassembling the Pontiac so I can post it on YouTube. Shred line. Grumpy Beard, redeem the shred guitar solo. Alright guys, it's time to shred. It's time to shred. Not sure... Hell yeah, Grumpy. Thanks for supporting the community. Alright, I gotta shut this music off real quick. Let's grab the... Let's grab the axe, guys. Let's grab that axe. Let's grab the axe. Let's grab the axe. Let's grab the axe. Let's grab the axe. Let's grab the axe. And don't forget guys, for every five gifted subs, I will permanently put your name on that guitar. For every five gifted subs, I will permanently put your name on that guitar. For every five gifted subs, five gifted memberships, and two galaxies, I will permanently put your name on that guitar. It's the bottom line. Now let me just grab the cable. My bad, a little late. Hey! Not your hometown hero with a gifted sub. I appreciate you, Not Your Hometown Hero. Thank you for that, dude. Alright. Where's my amp? Gotta pull her up. Now I don't know if any of you guys are musicians and you guys own a PC or anything. I'm gonna show you guys this amp real quick. I'm not sponsored by these guys by any means at all. It's just something that is a really amazing amp. This thing right here is a built-in plug-in that you can use without having a digital audio workshop. You just buy the amp, you plug it in. It's from STL Tones, the Andy James. It has a bunch of good stuff on it, dude. It has like three different amps you can choose from. It has a bunch of pedals. It has effects. It's a really, really good amp. And it sounds great too. You guys hear that? I'm a drummer heavy Chevy. You're a drummer heavy Chevy? Heck yeah, dude. I tried playing drums, bro. I don't got it in me. What about now? Mr. Stone Cold Steve Austin over here... I know, Troy. I know, dude. I don't know why I say that. It's just a thing now, man. It's super quiet. What about this? Why are you playing drums? It's like a human being. What about now? Mr. Stone Cold Steve Austin over here. I know, Troy. I know, dude. I don't know why I say that. It's just a thing now, man. It's super quiet. It wasn't even turned on. What about now? You guys hear that? All right. I'm going to shut this thing off. I'm going to shut this thing off. All right, Gropey. There you go, man. I appreciate it, bro. I appreciate it, dude. Thank you, Frank. I appreciate it, man. It sounds amazing. Jacob, I appreciate you guys, dude. Troy, by the way, I got a free STL thing for my Focusrite interface. He gave me some EVH stuff for free. Hell yeah, dude. That's amazing. The Andy James one. I wanted to get the freaking Jason Richardson one. Jason Richardson is my favorite guitar player, guys. That guy shreds, man. I just recently bought a Beat Pad and Triggers for my double kick. I'm obsessed, bro. Hell yeah, dude. Yeah, the double. Oh, my gosh, man. Double bass is amazing. I think I would have to say my two favorite drummers. I'm not really a drummer, but the two drummers that stand out the most to me, you know, freaking Jimmy Sullivan from Revenge Sevenfold, man. That guy was brilliant. Brilliant. Rest in peace, brother. God bless your soul, dude. And then the drummer for All That Remains. The drummer for All That Remains is freaking amazing. Amazing. All right, guys, but we're going to get back into this game. Horns out for the Rev. 100% Troy, 100%. He's still one of my favorite guitar players of all time, dude. That's the bottom line. Both hands are amazing. Both bands are great, great, great bands. Except I'm not really feeling of Ensemble's new album, guys. I don't know. I don't know about that one. My brother-in-law bought it. We listened to it when we were on our way to Disneyland. Dude, I don't know about that one. I play a mean air guitar. Do you, Augie? Ain't nothing wrong with that, bro. That's where I started, dude. That's where I started right there. The drummer who looks like Will Ferrell. Oh, dude, I think I know what you're talking about. The drummer for Will Ferrell, who looks like Will Ferrell. Man, what band was he in? Dude, why can't I think of it right now? You guys, you guys know who he is, right? Not a drummer, but Chester Bennington was amazing. Chester Bennington was, he's still one of my favorite vocalists, dude. He's a great guitar, a great singer, great singer. Yeah, Red Hot Chili Peppers. That's who it was. He's in the Red Hot Chili Peppers, bro. He does, he looks just like Will Ferrell. It's a trip. I didn't even know Will Ferrell can play the drums, dude, until I watched a video of them both playing together, bro. Okay, let's chop down another tree and make this thing land inside the back of this truck, because that's a nice way to make a little bit of profit right there. I don't know if we should go for another big tree. Should we go for another big tree? Or should we go for a smaller one? I took my double kit from like 65 BPM to 135 BPM, which is absurd, and his name is Chad Smith, but the one I'm trying to learn is technique, is from Sleep Token. Sleep Token, that's another good man right there. Go for all the trees close to the plant. Okay, you're right. So I definitely gotta take that big one down so I can push that back. a little bit more. Alright, we're gonna give this another shot, guys. Hopefully we can pull it off. Sleep Token is a great man. 100% dude. It grows on you. I respect it, but they just do what they want. Nobody is epic that Solo is. I appreciate it, Troy. Nope, he might not. Minus. Hello. What's up, babe? Welcome in. Welcome to the stream, wife. Baby, wanna see something cool? Wanna see something cool? Augie taught me that you can chop these trees down, and they can land in the back of your truck, and if you jump in at the exact time, the right time, and click L, you can strap it in without even having to chop it into pieces. I might get a lot of money for this one. This is like a double tree right here, guys. Let's give this a shot. Let's see if we can pull this off again. This time, I might freaking open up the L gate of my truck real quick. Let's see if we can land her in there. Let's see if we can land her in there. I've been trying better the speed of my right leg. I had surgery on it like a year ago, and I'm finally starting to get it full control. That's good, man. That's good. I feel like drumming could help that. I feel like drumming's kind of like therapy for that, dude. You're working the muscles for sure. I think he's at about 140. Yeah, I think I... Yeah, 148. I got 148. If we get to 200 subs over here, I will eat the world's hottest chocolate bar, everybody. All right, but let's try to chop this thing down. Hell, a nice update. It is tweeter sin. It is. It's an amazing update. We're gonna get as low as we can down here. We gotta jump in quick. All right, here we go. Oh my gosh, dude. I'm freaking nervous. E-L. E-L. E-L. I gotta remember that. E-L. Oh God, oh God. I want to botch this stuff. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Go, go, go. We got it. We got it. Let's get her out of here, dude. Yeah. This is freaking genius. Oh my gosh, I'm stuck. Hey. Not your hometown here with the pride roar. Hold up, guys. Read chat. Wrench a tree cutter machine and drag the tree. It helps a lot, but it's very easy to cramp up or stutter and you lose a lot of motivation when that happens. What am I missing? Oh, okay. Got it. Thank you guys for that. I appreciate it. Yeah, babe. Just let me know. You guys were stuck. We're stuck. We're stuck. We gotta get out of here. Come on. Let's go. Oh, we're like hanging, dude. No. All right, dude. That was a close call right there. I appreciate you guys. Thanks for letting me know that. Did you not stay close? What do you mean? The great game hog? She said unlock the door, sir. Okay, I'll unlock the door right now. I'll be right back, guys. I'll be right back. I'll be right back. I'll be right back. I'll be right back. I'll be right back. All right, babe. Doors unlocked. Doors unlocked. Doors unlocked. Should have stayed near where you sold. Oh, so you can cut trees that aren't on your property? No way. Dude, okay. That's good to know. I had no idea you could do that. How are we going to get in there? This is going to be tricky, guys. This is a big sucker right here. We could do this. We could do this. We could do this. I know it. Maybe not. Hey, Ely J. Thanks for the follow. And you're going to need to help her when she gets there. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. All right. Hold on. Hold on. I might have to drop this just a little bit. Maybe lower it. All right. All right. This is what we're going to have to do. We're going to have to take one for the team. I'm going to have to chop this tree down real quick. We're going to chop it off in this direction so it's out of the way. That's how I transport trees as well. Is it not your hometown hero? That's the best way to do it, dude. Augie came in clutch with that. I had no idea you could do that. That is a lifesaver. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. There we go. We did it. We pulled it off. Definitely do that in real life. I'm good, man. I'm good. I love my truck. Bye, Grumpy. All right, bro. I got to get this headache. All right, Grumpy. Thanks for the raid, dude. Thanks for hanging out for a little bit, man. Thanks for redeeming your channel points. Give me a little shreddage going. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Come on, Frida. It's me. My phone died. I'm going to pull up in four minutes. All right. Four minutes. What time is it right now? You guys, we're not going to make it. We're not going to make it. This tree is too wide. We might make it. We might make it. Where is... Watch out, man. Watch out. Watch out. He didn't make it I'm making it, dude Yay After your hometown here with some of the go And did the pride roar I thought I'm sitting here I'll be right back, everybody I'm gonna go help my wife real quick I will be right back Can you trade me the bat for the Sub-Zero gauntlets? You want the bat? Yeah Alright, drop it I'll give you a gun No, I don't want a gun There you go Come here Come here Come here Let's go Yeah, did you guys see that? I got her trying to pull a fastball on me I wasn't gonna let that happen I got it, dude I'm mounted Hell yeah Beautiful Pull Damn it Oh my god I didn't think that was gonna work I know you were I didn't think that was gonna work I'm sorry Oh my god I just got ran over by his brain right now I'm all still buying shit in the store Good job, guys I'll supervise That's a good best ass Get the fuck out of here with that shit Mounted it, dude, perfectly Perfectly Get it Alright, finish your move right here Oh my god Oh my god Close your mouth I'm pretty sure Oh my god, dude What is happening to my mouth right now? Can you stay away from me? I got the stinky sock Got it Got it Mounted it Mounted it The spider Imagine if we had spiders that big You're gonna laugh I would do Dude, me too, bro Me too Alright Alright Finish it right here Beautiful Oh crap Oh crap Oh crap Oh shit Oh yeah, look at that butter Look at that fish Yummy, yummy, yummy It's making me hungry That's Kool-Aid It's not alcohol Alright, everybody I'm back What are you doing? What are you guys talking about here? My daughter wants to say hi to everybody And my name's the little lioness He is She's the little lioness, everybody She's the little lioness She's gonna beat him Up again Most definitely If he streams It might Get a lot of follows Whoa Dude, it's not a bad idea Maybe I should let my wife beat me up On camera Probably right Alright, everybody Alright, let's get this game going I don't know, guys I don't know Oh, babe Little lioness Archon says hi Hi Fake smiles, lion I just want to know What shenanigans I've come back to After the break What you doing with the tree I'm going to sell it Fake smiles I'm going to sell this thing, dude What's fake smiles? I don't know That's a cool name You think it's a cool name? I do too What are fake smiles? Oh, what do you mean What are fake smiles? You know what fake smiles are Like this You do fake smiles Every once in a while Is that this? Yep Van Van, slow down You guys I don't know If I'm going to be able To get through here Oh, no Oh, no Oh, no Don't ask questions Just accept it Fake smiles We might have to chop down Some of these freaking branches Wait, there's got to be a way Let's look at the map Real closely here There's a big field right there But there's no way I can get to it That's grandpa's farm I appreciate it Lioness And don't I don't have the mental capacity To ask any more questions Watch out Car Car, move This is dangerous This is extremely dangerous You're not supposed to be here right now We just got to wrap it around The pole and the tree That's what we got to do, guys That's the only way It's not going to work It's going to work I'm going to make it work I'm going to make this work If this works the same as 22 You may be able to trim the trees A little to get some of the small branches And leaves Oh, you're bringing all your toys? Yeah, it's my I don't know Heck yeah Make it fit We're going to make it fit, dude Elite J, you know I have a couple of friends That would try something like that Oh my gosh You guys We're doing it We're doing it, though It's working The trick's going to be To get across that bridge I think the tree's low enough That it won't hit The top of it So I think we should be good I think we should be good Oh my god, we're in the clear We got a nice big open field Some space right here Oh my gosh, never mind There's a pole right there But we can phase through it We can make it work Schoolbush, give me a nudge You guys We're going to do it, dude We're going to do it I'm telling you Stop honking at me, car Wrap it around Wrap it around Wrap it around There we go Let's drive up here Oh, there's a tree over there I got to be careful I got to be real careful He's taking more trees out Along the way What's up, Taz? Welcome in Two bands that have Phenomenal guitarists Are Novelist And Invent Animate I've never heard of them I'll have to go check them out I'll definitely Have to go check them out Okay, hold on Okay, I should be able To get through that opening Right there Got a nice big open field Then immediately It's a pole I didn't see the pole, dude We're good We're good Oh my gosh Might be stuck in that tree Oh, come on Come on Come on Come on We're kind of flying a little bit Alright Alright Alright We got this Take your tree to work today Irish GTG Welcome in, dude Holy crap I didn't think about the train Oh my gosh The train Where is it? Oh no Um How are we gonna get right? We have to go around We can do this We can do this We got this We got this We got this My depth perception Is off a little bit Everybody Bear with me here Oh no We were stuck in the same position Last time It's gotta wrap it around Wrap it around Go real slow Real nice and slow We can pull this off We can pull this off We just gotta go straight Dude Dude, we got this We got this Hold on Oh, dude Can you imagine Driving and this is all you guys see Look, babe, look Look I am Hey Don't get dirty with me on stream Look at my tree Whatever Yeah, I hear it It doesn't stop for anything Only way to stop it Is to rent it And leave it in place What am I watching right now? Roadman You're watching me Carry this freaking tree To the carpentry guy And we're gonna sell it For a good amount of money I'm gonna guess This tree is probably Gonna get us like Four grand Is it worth it, guys? Is it worth it? Is it worth the four grand? I think so Oh, no This thing might be too wide, guys This thing might be too wide For the bridge Come on We could do it It's not It's not too wide If it's too wide For that freaking pole It might be, guys This might be the end of it This might be the end of it Right here Maybe not Maybe not Maybe not Maybe not This is center The wood That's what she said Dude I think it just phases If we go slow I think we can manipulate it And kind of just phase Through all these freaking beams Bye, Alina Bye Alright, baby You be good, okay? Listen to your mom and your grandparents Back up Turn around Back up Turn around Ooh Ooh, that's not a bad idea I don't think I'm gonna be able to back up I think we're stuck You guys I think we're gonna Cause an issue with traffic I love you too, babe We're gonna do this We're gonna do this I feel it I feel it About to meet his fate Coming towards a moving tree Oh my gosh This school bus Is gonna get in the way School bus Come on You can go through there You're good Or just What do you mean Just send it And we're just sending You can send it What do you mean Great hog What do you mean Great game hog I need a belt Like those straps Right He means gun it Oh, okay Let's try it Let's see what happens Cause I don't think I can back up Alright, let's go Let's just go Come on Come on Come on Come on Ain't gonna work, dude You guys We're not getting through here We're getting through here We're getting through here We're gonna I'm gonna make this work, dude Just one beam at a time One beam at a time We're gonna do it Oh my gosh, dude What kind of straps You have on the tree Some heavy duty straps, bro Some OSHA approved straps Right here What if If I reset my vehicle What happens Will my tree disappear Will my tree disappear? Come on Come on Come on, baby Get through Get through We've made it this far The tree drops on the ground The tree drops Drops on the ground I'm just completely screwing traffic That's one way to haul a tree We've got this, dude I know we can do it We've made it this far There's gotta be a way It might be better to get a wood chipper If you have one I don't have one Fake smiles I don't have one Go ahead, car Go ahead, pass It's okay Turn Get to chips And sell the chip Easier to transport Okay, we gotta do something like that We might have to get a wood chipper Oh, man Come on We can do it We can do it What if I just settle down a little bit? I'm just hanging there Three-point turn You lose your load Also, what truck does He have that He can transport a whole tree like that? Okay It ain't gonna happen, guys It ain't gonna happen We're stuck here Go through and reverse Josh That's what everybody keeps saying But I don't even know If I can get out of here now You know what? I think going through and reverse Is gonna be Is gonna work Just judging from the way I just got out of there I'm gonna have to make this work How the hell am I gonna turn this thing around? Okay, I should be able to turn it around from here Maybe Maybe Let's find out If this works That's gonna be brilliant Alright If we can If this doesn't work, guys Nothing's gonna work Sorry Sorry, sir Man, these freaking AI get pissed, dude Get out of the way Sir You need to move I'm working Sir You need to move The suspension on that truck would be It would be 100% destroyed, dude Alright, guys Alright, here we go Here we go Moment of truth Reverse I love that they honk at you Me too, bro Ah, there's no way There's no way Sir Come on There's no way, guys There's no other way around this place, is there? I mean, there is But I don't wanna I feel like it's gonna take forever Let's see the map zoom in About to head out, bro Alright, Troy Thanks for stopping by, dude Maybe under the bridge You can't You can't do that, Jacob Because there's water underneath there I mean I don't know what's over in this direction We could go that way Or we could maybe Cut through these fields right here We might be able to go straight And cut through these fields Maybe take it over here Maybe Maybe make it through this little area Where all these other trees are at I doubt it And try to hit the ferry Trim the tips Does it fit in the ferry? Okay, Divine Hope We're on the same page I think we might be able to do that I think that's what we're gonna have to try and do That's what I'm feeling, everybody Ferry time Let's get to the ferry Let's cut through the field And get to the ferry Alright, here we go Here we go I'm gonna leave this map on the screen Oh my gosh Watch, we're stuck now Sir You have to move out of the way I'm gonna go 4x4 And right over you It's freaking monster truck time, guys If this car wasn't in the damn way Can you imagine seeing that? Oh, we are stuck We are stuck 100% guys We ain't getting out of here We ain't getting out of here My tire is inside the asphalt right now Hold on, hold on L If that car wasn't in the damn way Oh, dude, we did it We did it I thought that was it This truck Dude, this truck now This truck is flipping me Okay, we gotta get out of here quick, dude We gotta get out of here quick somehow Dude, this is ridiculous What did I get myself into? Ah, come on Oh my gosh Let's try L again Oh, you're right Turn off the traffic, huh? We're gonna have to for now Where's the traffic setting? Turn off There we go Oh my gosh Man, dude, that truck Spammed me in a very, very bad spot, guys I think we're screwed I think we're screwed This reminds me of Austin Powers scene Where Dude, Chris I see that too Freaking Austin Powers, man Now I wanna watch that movie again Okay, okay There's gotta be a way And you thought finding a new tree was bad Hold on here Let's observe our surroundings real quick Let's observe our surroundings What do we got going on? We might have to chop some of these Some of these branches down It's not letting me It's not letting me chop them down This You are not allowed to cut this tree The hell are you talking about? It's my tree Oh no Oh no, guys We're in a bad spot Me and Archon have been telling you this for an hour now We can't chop it down, though Dude, it won't let me Iron line Would this be a good time to tell you That you can build a tiny sawmill on your farm? It's In the base game Costs like 10k And it turns trees into planks that you can sell I mean I mean Is actually kind of perfect, guys Because this is This is actually kind of genius right here I mean, look at this, dude Look at this Wait a second If I can't get this tree out of here And I'm not allowed to chop it up Did I technically destroy my game? Because how the hell am I going to get freaking You know, vehicles that I buy at the store Through this bridge I've got to get this freaking car out of here, guys I've got to figure out how to get this car out of here Oh, poor truck She's been through it Probably because of the way the straps are holding it Maybe, huh? Let's try to drop it again Let's try to drop it again See what happens Disconnect the straps Then cut it Oh Oh No, we're not allowed to cut it We're not allowed to cut it Okay Okay Okay Okay Okay Okay Okay Okay You can chop the You can chop the tree It's telling me I can't, dude I feel like we might be making some sort of progress Well, you broke the game I think I did, dude I think I freaking just destroyed my game, guys How is this thing able to drive? Right, Corbin? We just got to phase it through somehow We just got to glitch it through Just got to glitch it through Come on Come on Some more power, truck You got this Oh my gosh What did I get myself into? All right Let's try to chop off this piece at least I don't think it's gonna let me chop anything off ever at all I can't I can't, dude Maybe reset your truck I'm not sure We're gonna have to We're gonna reset it See what happens Leave the tree there Reposition the truck Ooh Ooh Ooh Okay, let's try that Let's try to get it from the front Dude, I completely blocked it off If I plow into it first Okay, that didn't work That didn't work Come on, truck You got this Come on Come on Go Go Go We're so close I feel it I feel it with my soul Oh, dude We're gonna pull it out right here I feel it Let's go Come on Dude Dude Go Go Come on Come on Just a little bit harder Oh, you guys Oh, you guys Oh, that thing is just hanging off We could just drop it right there And just let it go Say goodbye What do you guys think Should we just Say goodbye to this tree Because I don't Do think there's any way I'm gonna be able to tow this Oh, we've got it We've got it We've got it We've got it Not worth the trouble At this point I think I agree with you I think I agree with you Fake smiles But then again If we can make it through Them fields right here I am so sorry To all these other farmers I'm about to destroy your crop No need for a plow next season How are we gonna get through there though Oh my gosh Okay We're making it now though Never mind Never mind We lost control What? We might have to go through that way You might have to You might make it Over the train bridge You talking about that ferry thing? Okay Okay Okay Okay We're in business We're in business We're in business everybody We got this Oh my gosh I can't believe that just happened Okay Where is the way to go? So what's the plan now? Take the tree to the ferry Yes sir Chris That's the plan That's the plan We're gonna take the tree to the ferry If we can in fact make it over there Which I believe we can I have faith I have faith Look at that Look at that guys Look at that Oh no Oh no Oh no Oh no I don't think we're gonna make it through that little Opening right there Oh no We're gonna have to go this way I think it actually makes firewood The bridge on the east side of town doesn't have A ceiling like the west one does You could do that On the east side of town? But that is so far away dude I don't know if I'm gonna be able to make it over there But I feel like there's nothing but fields over there Yeah by the farm 57 the bridge is uncovered By farm 57 We might be able to make it all the way around there Let's find out Yeah train bridge might work Let's buy 57 Okay Let's go check it out Go to your store What do you mean Demata go to my store? Do I have a store? Hey what's up Brad Ork How you doing man? We're just lugging this freaking tree through the You know the fields of all the other farmers Because we're gonna try to sell it in one big piece Doesn't seem to be working very good We got stuck in a bridge for about 30 minutes Demon is trying to Get you to check out the sawmill Like where you purchase things in game Yeah that's what we're trying to get to You're talking about that store over here right? The warehouse right here? Big brain moves He's trying to But the tree is bigger Yeah the tree is bigger than the bridge That's the problem That's the problem We tried to go through the bridge And we got stuck For like 30 minutes If we can't get through this guys I think it's the person that ditched the tree There's no way we're getting through here There's absolutely no way we're getting through here Alright guys I think it's time for us to cut our losses We tried We tried for over half an hour It means the store you build things on your farm Same way you place barns No there's a key bind to pull up the store You're talking about This? We could sell stuff from here? No No No buy the sawmill Okay so let's go back home real quick If we can freaking make it home Okay so let's find this place on the map real quick Which you guys are trying to talk about The sawmill by the house So here's my home right there There's a cement factory A dredging Actually if he presses the construction tab I bet that would pull it up Without needing to know the key bind You were doing better cutting deadwood I think so Elite J Is it in the construction tab? So what am I looking for exactly? Hey what's up lioness? How you doing babe? Second item down What am I looking for? There's a Bakery Carpentry Cement factory Dairy Cereal In there There's a sawmill You can build On your farm For cheap Sawmill Is 300,000 bucks Is there a cheaper one or something? Spinery Preserved Carpentry Grain Sawmill $36,000 Take goods Transfer them Into different products That's it That's it Okay I see what you guys are saying now Okay We're gonna go back to the house We can't lose this tree Can't lose this tree We've worked too hard on this thing So the sawmill Is that another good way to make money? Like is it Can you make some good money doing that? Or firewood Try the train bridge You have nothing to lose Taz We're gonna go back to The house And we're gonna buy the sawmill And just turn this into a bunch of planks Chill out with next sir Are you a tree? We are dragging a tree bro I feel like I don't know if you guys have ever seen Lord of the Rings before You know You're like an ant That's what I feel like We look like a freaking ant right now It's a long story It's an extremely long story Fake smiles We got stuck on a bridge For about 30 minutes dude And I just found out Actually I think I was told before You can get a sawmill But I didn't click it together Until you know I was walked through the steps Of getting it And now we're gonna take this Try to take this thing back home Where we originally got it from And I'm gonna purchase the sawmill Hopefully we can freaking get home Hopefully we can get home There's gotta be a way We just gotta wrap around These telephone poles Currently in 5th place Are we babe? Hell yeah Timon you can definitely wear Frank yes Oh we've got this We've got this We've got this We've got this We've got this dude We've got this Let's wrap around the poles We should be pro level At this by now Oh this one's gonna be tricky This one's gonna be real tricky Oh Oh look at that Look at that Look at that We're getting closer We're getting closer I don't think I took this route Last time guys I might I might screw myself somewhere Yeah there ain't no way There ain't no way Alright guys I think we're just gonna Drop her off right here I think that's gonna have to Do it for this tree This tree is no more Um We're gonna go buy the sawmill And we're gonna do this A good old proper way Goodbye tree Oh my gosh sir I'm sorry I put that on his shed He's gonna have no idea What happened He's gonna blame the aliens Everybody It was the aliens Long as it's not Isn't blocking a road Exactly Exactly Fake smiles Exactly At this point You can't process that tree You need to keep it As a trophy For all your trouble Well there we go Every time we We drive by What is that Lot number one We will know That is the tree That got away But it's okay It's okay We're going to get the sawmill Right here right now I wouldn't have any contracts I could've done right now dude How much money I'd have Was to waste Trying to freaking Take a tree Across the bridge But where are we gonna Put the sawmill That's the That's the question That's the question Let's say If I all have more trees And rent them Like that I'd like to admit All trees that I just couldn't get Out of my field You can make like A tree And get out of Here Where can we put This thing That's the question First of all We're gonna have to See how big it is Okay Let's check it out Shift P Sawmill No Not the sugar mill Not the sugar mill Sawmill Oh dude That thing's tiny Bro I could just put This thing like Right here Okay But here's the question Should it be facing A specific direction The iron liner When you are in Construction mode And placing a building If you Push B It will override The placement limit So you can build Really Even if there's trees In the way Oh my gosh Okay We only sold Uh One Upsetting We only sold One Next time I see him As a tree car I'll be rooting For him I appreciate it Chill out with Mac I appreciate you bro I don't remember Where the drop point is Damn Okay Can you see it From here maybe Should it even matter Cause I feel like I need to place it Like right here That should be good Hey Chill out with Mac I appreciate the follow Dude Thank you for the follow The wheelbarrow icon Is where you'll need To drop the tree The wheelbarrow icon Is where you'll need To drop the tree Okay So this Probably be my best bet What if I just place This right here Next to this tree And then just chop You know It's already on The The wheelbarrow side And then I can just Get all this wood Right here Right now Yes right there Okay Let's put it right here Let's do this Here we go It won't It won't work upsetting Why not I'm hyped for the Scotland map The new edition of Farming fish is my calling I'm gonna have to Check that out Freaking Scotland map Sounds awesome The game will glitch It'll glitch out Okay let's not do that Is right here better We're just gonna put it Right here This makes the most sense Do it there Okay There she is We got her Look at that Dude I got a freaking Sawmill now Alright Alright What If I drive over my Property It's not gonna do anything Is it No we're good We're good Okay Let's try to Chop down this little tree First Like Will I be able to make Anything out of this Little tiny tree Right there You probably have Drop Drop damage off Oh really Okay That's good Can you even chop This thing down Turning trees into Sweet Sweet toilet paper Separating those From nature You can chop it down Okay I don't think You can cut that Right here Right here We gotta be quick E-L E-L This shit is Landed right in the Back of my truck Though Will it Oh man Oh man Can I pick these Things up though They seem pretty White Just disappeared Huh So you can't Make anything Out of that Stuff Well let's Clean it up Anyways You can pick up The small ones We just have to Clear like a little Driving area Go to the Wrench Recipe Storing It went into The inventory You have to Access the mill To turn it into Things Oh So I don't Believe I have Enough wood Though Do I How can you Tell incoming Materials There's planks Inactive Cycles per Month It went into Alright Alright cool So it's in the Inventory That's very Interesting dude That is Freaking Awesome As I can pick up How do you get rid Of all this Stuff Does it Does it matter What What he makes If he's Making it For dust Are the Options Mostly just For when you Need a certain Type of wood For building Projects That's a good Question That's a good Question I can't pick up Any of that Stuff But can I pick up Any of these Logs I can't I can pick up This baby right Here Let's go Let's go Okay so we Can get rid Of this Tree Now Since it's Right here Dude Perfect Perfect We just gotta Chop it up Into little Pieces And then So once I Start making These planks Where do you Go to sell Them The carpentry I'm assuming I'm assuming It's probably The only place Bro Grouch Wind Cutting Trees Got it Wood type Doesn't matter For special Projects No Cause I Want to Build my Own house Eventually Dude No The playground Pays the Best Until you Build it Okay so the Playground Pays the Best Man Man I Should've Listened to You guys From the Start Dude I Should've Just you Know Set my Pride Side Thought I Thought I Can Freaking Pull This Off Dude But Didn't Do It Very Well Didn't Do It Very Well But You Know What We Got a Sawmill Out of It Thanks To You Guys I Appreciate It Man We Got a Sawmill On The Ranch We're Gonna Start Making Bank Now I Hope Remember 300 Hours Yeah 300 Hours Dude That That's Some Good Hours Right There If you Teleport To The Playground Bottom Left Corner Of The Map It Will Tell You When You Need To Complete The Certain Phase It Pays A Hefty Premium If You Deliver Anything On The List Okay Cool And Those Are Things That I That I Have To Build What Here Oh Dude Oh Dude It Looks Awesome Yeah The Playground Is All Carpentry And Sawmill Stuff Got It Got It So We're Going To Go Visit It See If I Can Make Anything After I Put Some Of These Trees Up Inside Of Here Or Parts Of Trees Up Inside Of Here We Are Going To Go To The Playground See What's Up You Can Use Small Pieces Of Wood To Move Big Ones Oh Can You Oh Oh Oh I Think I Can Pick That Up No I Can't Move Your Truck Over There Augie Augie You're Genius Dude I'm Just Doing This The Hard Way I'm Just Doing This The Hard Way Because I Think You Can Drive Right Through It Huh Oh My Gosh Oh My Gosh All right There We Go We're Just Going To Throw Everything Up Inside Of There I Got You Bro Yep This Is How We're Going To Do Guys This Is How We're Going To Do 100% Fair Enough I Got Into 22 Pretty Late When 25 Was Already In The Making Just Played It With My Little Brother Mostly They're They're Good Games Dude I'm Very Impressed With This Game I I Had No Idea There Was That This Much To Them I Really Didn't You Can Also Get A Winch For Your Tractors And Drag Entire Trees With Them Okay I Need To Get A Winch Or You Know I Could Just Drop It Into The Back Of My Truck With The Good Old Fashioned Way Yeah You Could But With The Winch You Could Drag Like Four Trees Four Five Trees At A Time Oh Dude Oh Crap I Didn't Mean To Throw That Thing Where To Go Ah Since We're Right Here Only Reason I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I'm I'm I'm not Familiar With This Game At All Really Dude I I Literally Just The Only Mod The Crazy Mod I Have In This Game Is The Financing Mod Which Came In Handy It Came In Handy Dude All Right All Right Okay Let's Go Drive It Over There Beautiful What Do We Got Right Now Let's Check We Got Quite A Bit Of Wood Now Got Quite A Bit Of Wood Okay So Let's Go To The School Where Exactly Is The School Playground Bottom Left Left Corner Of The Map Visit Playground Alright So We Just Gotta Go To The Wrench Wood Beams Planks Rope And I Have $30 To Project Champs COS That's $24 I H No, I don't want to buy it. No. That list is just for the current phase. Every construction phase project has four A phases where the materials change but it pays really good. Okay. So obviously required materials for next step. That's the phase. Wood beams, long planks and rope. No, get out of there. So planks long. Okay. So wood beams, long plank. So I click on it and just click activate, I'm assuming. Running. Cycles per month. Cost per month, 48 bucks a month. How many hours are in a day on this game? Does it only get dark when you sleep? You could, you could change it. So right now, um, there's like a couple of settings. So check it out. Watch. You go over here to the settings and it shows timescale to the speed at which the time passes in the day. You can go up to, to like 10 and to go 30 and it goes really fast. I'm at two. So it's pretty slow. Only because I'm trying to get as much done in the day as I can. Yeah. So I'm not buying. There are no mods. Can range anywhere from a day night cycle between 20 minutes. I'll wait a real time. You can go to 360 times speed. Oh my gosh. Real time is wild. Heck yeah. Demonic. King of trucks. You have kind of trucks. You have, I only have this truck, dude. That's my only baby right there. Why don't I feel like she's all scratched up and beat up? Is she okay? I cannot believe she's barely damaged from everything we just put her through guys. Everything we put her through. She's still freaking holding strong, dude. How long do I got to wait for this freaking wood? Can I do more? Can I activate wood beams too? Oh, you can. Wood beams and plank. That's awesome. How do you make rope? Probably dirty. Watch renting a server for this game. I'm going to take the server for form similar 25 and then change the form similar 22. I'll have to go through support if you want it back. Dang, dude. It produces continually as long as you feed it wood. Just give it time. Come back tomorrow and there will be a bunch. Got it. Got it. Spinnery is how you make wood. That makes sense. Okay, what do we got to do now? Let's check some contracts real quick. Let's check some of them contracts. Cultivating. Oh, we got some good contracts right here. Guys, let's go get some of this stuff done. All that time we wasted. We got to catch up. We got to catch up. Some more cultivating right there. 4,000 bucks. Okay, it's been fun. Have a beautiful evening. All right, you too, Ivy. Thanks for stopping by. I appreciate it. Sure you don't want to do another... No, I don't, Chris. I do not. Knock, knock. What's up? What's up, babe? Are you here right now? No. Harvesting cotton? I'm scared to harvest anything, guys. Is cotton easy to harvest? That's 15,000 bucks. We got the stone picking one. We can have them do the stone picking, too. That's what we're going to do. Fairly. Divine Hope fairly. So for 15,000 bucks, it's probably a big plot of land, huh? Let's go check it out. That is a huge plot of land. We might have to hold off on that one. I'm nervous. That gets me nervous. We'll do the stone picking one, though. 61, we'll have a worker take care of it. All right, let's go. Let's go put these people to work real quick. Move on with our lives. Yeah, but rent the equipment. Okay, we'll deal with that one after this one. After one of these contracts. Because that's nerve-wracking, dude. That gets me a little nervous. You just use a cotton harvester and then a trailer. It's easy if you rent. Okay, got it. Maybe I can go give it a shot myself. Damn, I didn't mean to do that. Rent the equipment and have AI do it. Cotton harvests just aren't very big, so it takes a while. Okay. What land do I need to be for this one? Because what are we doing right now? This one's obviously the bigger land. So we're going to 50. Where's 50 at? It's not too far away. Let's get there. Let's get there. Man, dude. I'm just freaking traumatized from that whole tree experience, everybody. Holy crap. 15 grand is pretty good. That is really good to monet. But it's scary, dude. It's so scary. Because it's so big. And last time I did a harvesting one, it was bees. And I could not help the AI at all. I could not help the AI at all, dude. I feel bad for that freaking AI worker, dude. Blocking them off. I was cutting them off. I was yelling at them. It was my fault the whole time. Don't do beets or potatoes. That's what I keep hearing. Don't do beets or potatoes. I'll never do beets again, dude. That experience was brutal. That was a brutal experience. I'm just going straight up the long way, guys. I missed the road. It doesn't matter. I hear potatoes are really bad, demonic. I'm just along with the ride. Got to reflect on my thoughts out here. Out here in the woods, man. It's beautiful farmland over here. All the veggies are brutal. I usually just stick to grains because they are easy. And you can get massive combines. Okay. But cod's just, it's a slow process. Beets were trash in Farming Simulator 22. Why do I only have $94,000? Oh, yeah. I bought the sawmill. I was tripping out for a second, everybody. I was tripping out for a second. Trust me. I know. I've experimented with most of the crops before settling on corn and cotton as my main. Okay. So, cotton is a good one, then. I'm going to take that cotton's pretty good. So, if you stick to wheat and grass, you can feed chickens, sheep, and cows without needing to buy any food. That's what I keep hearing, too. And I hear, like, um, because I got a beller that gives me, like, little bells of, like, straw. I could feed those to the cows, too, right? Because I do plan on getting some livestock at some point. I'd say I ain't ready for that yet. We need to buy another plot of land first. Straws for bedding. Okay. Makes sense. Cotton is good, but very time-consuming. Is it worth as much? Okay. So, I might not do the cotton if it's, because if it's that time-consuming, I don't know, dude. Grass, hay is food. Unless I just have AI do it. Unless I just have the AI do it. And I'll transport it, obviously. All right, AI. I need your help. I need your help working to take care of this land for me. All right, let's go pick up the next piece of equipment here. And this right here is for them rocks. You can feed straws to cows, but it's not ideal. It's better to give them hay, which you make from grass. Got it. And for this, don't wait, what? So, this is that 61. So, same thing. I just got to go straight and then right. Okay. The process of turning the cotton into fabric closes the same as the sawmill. You just need to put the cotton in the production building and it automatically gets churned into fabric like wood. Okay. I believe cows don't produce manure without straw in here either. Okay. Man, there's just, there's so much to this game, dude. There's so much to this game. All the manufacturing in this game is freaking just overwhelming, dude. But we are, we are going to make it happen. I'm going to freaking make this $5 million farm, dude. That's the bottom line. That's the bottom line, everybody. Grass is silage and we wear as hay. Got it. I appreciate it, babe. Thank you for that. Or just, I believe cows don't produce, oh, I already read that. Lots of micromanaging to do and say the least and keeping track of profits. Definitely, dude. You know, and if you're anything like me, lots of freaking dragon full trees through the city. Ain't doing that. Ain't doing that ever again, dude. We got a sawmill now. We got a sawmill now, dude. Don't worry, I'm still here lurking in the depths. I appreciate it, Heavy Chevy. Yeah, sexy beard. Thanks, Archon. Thanks, man. Orison, I'm in the middle of growing to 3,500 cows. Wish me luck. Good luck, bro. Good luck. Look at all them rocks. I feel sorry for this worker right now. Take over, kind. Or ma'am. Take over, ma'am. I think I might have screwed myself. On six. I need to cultivate it. Prepare the field for sowing by cultivating it. Do I have a cultivator? Do I have a cultivator? That weeding thing, that's the cultivator, right? Okay. No, that's a weeder. Okay. Well, I don't have a cultivator. I screwed myself on contract number six. Damn it. And you also have a plow, but not a cultivator. Got it. Might have to cancel that contract. Yeah, I freaking botched that one up. Cultivators are cheap, though. You can get them for like 10K for small ones. We could go check it out. Maybe there's something on sale by chance. Trying to... No. No. All right, let's go check it out. Let's find a cultivator real quick. Let's see what prices we're looking at. Cultivator. There's one for 9,000 bucks. All right, we're just going to buy it. Have a worker take care of it for us. It's a small little lot. This should be fine. This should be fine. When you're ending the stream. Pretty soon. Upsetting. Pretty soon. We're not going to finance it. We're just going to buy it straight out. Okay, we're going to pick it up with one of our trackers. Which one? What I need to check. I forgot to check. How do you check all your equipment? Escape graph icon vehicles tab. Okay. I'm looking at all the wrong spots. Owned. Available. We're at vehicles. There we go. Okay. So where's that other tractor at? This one. Okay, so this one is... 70 horsepower. Okay. That thing needs... Yeah, 110 horsepower. So we can't use that. We have to use the Voltra. We're going to have to use that Voltra. Let's go get her. No. Get out of there. Probably drop this roller real quick. Okay. That's the worst spot I could have parked my shed. Parked. Built my shed. Has anyone made lion stuff for this stream yet? Any bugs or beans? No, but we did get our first membership over on YouTube. That's why I ate a bean. Chris the Canadian. Second from the bottom. What's up, Nick? No fixing rusty cars tonight? Not tonight, Kieran. Not tonight. We are getting our farm going, dude. Welcome in, dude. And Conor. Welcome in, Conor. I'm sorry. I didn't see you guys. I am on Twitch, Conor. I am on Twitch. Twitch? Damn, dude. I can't even speak right now. Where we at? Or mom's house. Okay, so we're going to go pick this baby up. Where's lot number six? So it's going to be... Oh, it's right down there. It's real close. Man, none of those contracts are even close to being done either. All right, there we go. There we go. Look at that. We got our very first cultivator. We need to get another shed at some point. Okay, so we're going to just cut through this little field right here. Uh, it's probably... It looks like a freaking cliff almost. Yeah, we ain't doing that. We're just going to take the road. We're going to take the road. We're going to be safe. All right. All right. Now we can get the AI to take care of it for us. With our own equipment. We got our own cultivator now, everybody. Hell yeah. Sausage and pepperoni and salmon. All right, baby. That sounds delicious. That sounds delicious. All right. There we go. Everybody is working. Everybody is working. And we are out here with our property. It's coming along, everybody. The farm is definitely coming along. All right. But... I do have to end the stream, everybody. I do have to end the stream. We've been streaming for over an hour than normal, actually. Three hours, dude. I'm curious. Did you ever use a stump remover to get rid of the stumps from the trees? I did not, dude. I don't even... I don't have a stump remover, man. I got to buy one of those, too. You know the AI costs money. I do. I'm setting. I know they cost money. They're worth the price. They're worth the price, 100%. But everybody over on TikTok, I appreciate you guys all stopping by. I will catch you all... Thursday, guys. Because I don't stream on Wednesdays anymore, everybody. I do not stream on Wednesdays anymore. Then everybody over here on the good old... YouTube and Twitch... Good night, mate. Catch you soon. All right, EliteJS. Thanks for stopping by, dude. If you guys can... If you guys can stick around for the raid... We're going to go raid... Somebody that we know tonight... Or that I know tonight... It will go towards your channel point reward. So you guys... If you want to stick around, you can get your channel point reward. So you can redeem some more stuff... For the next stream, everybody. But we got to go find somebody to raid. I don't know who's on at the moment. We're going to go find out. Because we did raid at random last night. So tonight... It's going to be somebody else. Who's on? Who's on? Um... Okay. Why Catron's on? Why Catron's on playing... Card Shop Simulator. I've always wanted to see what that game is about. The game actually looks really good. Yeah, we're going to do a raid upsetting 100%. It means we're going to basically go into... We're going to take all of you guys into somebody else's stream for a little bit. Good night, mate. Alright. And AAA... Yeah, thanks for stopping by over there on YouTube, man. I appreciate you guys. So if you guys can do me a solid... And stick around for this raid... We're going to go check out... Why Catron playing... Why Catron playing... Shopping Simulator. Or Card Shop Simulator. Alright, everybody. With that being said... I will see you guys... Um... Thursday... For another Farming Simulator 25. So you guys have a fantastic rest of your night. I will catch you all Thursday. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye.