Risk And Benefits Of Mixed Farming System In Ghana
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1wZqZTKQ7Lo
Education
 hmm good evening and how is everybody doing it's another beautiful weekend and hello to all my followers alaba hello to you buddy in UK US Germany Italy Kenya Zambia South Africa Nigeria wherever you are hello to you I am so grateful that you are going to join me this evening for us to have an interesting insightful conversation it's all about agriculture development in Ghana hello lovely for my girl god bless you god bless you too watching man sir hello to you too so it's all about agriculture I am here to help you know what when the basics of agriculture where to invest where not to invest the threat risk the benefits everything that you need to know about agriculture here in Ghana and some part of Africa so two weeks ago I posted that we're going to discuss the risk and benefit of mixed farming system in Ghana so if you're watching me and perhaps you wanted to come and start farming in Ghana and you have about 50 or hundred twenty ten five acre farmland and you want to go into mixed farming this are what you have to know the disadvantages their advantages everything that you have to know I'm going to tell you today so first of all let's get to understand the basics when we say mixed farming what are we trying to see what are we driving at mixed farming system is a type of farming which involves the growing of crops as well as raising of livestock so whilst you're growing crops on one hand you are also raising livestock so that is the common definition that you can give to mixed farming so now let's look at some of the advantages that a farmer being a commercial farmer or a smallholder farmer can derived from going into mixed farming okay now the first one I would mention it's reduced dependency on a standard inputs and costs it reduce dependency and a standard inputs and costs so if let's say you have just a rice farm or you have a maize farm or a millet farm now before you even till the farm and then think of transplanting you would have to till the land you know add some sort of manure water it before you do your transplanting and all that now this is why this reduces a standard inputs and you have a standard inputs and you have a poultry farm or you have let's say a cow farm the benefits that it's going to bring to you is that you are able to carry some of the cow down move it to the field mix it to the field mix it with the land then let your tractor mix it with the soil it enriches the soil cow down and chicken droppings or poultry droppings they enrich the soil naturally so in this case you don't have to be thinking of now going to somebody else's farm to beg for their cow down or to buy cow down but because you have a cow you just have to take your truck you know get some of your cow down carry it to your farm mix it to the soil and then you start the process so that is one of the benefits you get it increases per capita profitability now if you have let's say three or more crops on your land whilst you are harvesting tomentos in some few weeks you know you are going to be harvesting oku in some few weeks you know you are going to be harvesting beans in some few weeks you are going to be harvesting this so it increases your profits margins it increases your profit margins you are not a one time farmer let's say a one time crop farmer so it means that if you harvest maize you would have to wait before you replant again and then you harvest sell before you make some money but in this case because you are doing multiple crops on your farmland the moment you harvest your maize you have the chance to also harvest your rice you have the chance to harvest your plantain you have the chance to harvest your banana so your profitability you are nutrients you also productivity so your profitability profitability you know comes every now and then so it increases your profitability level and it also combines each other so wraps up Cross like maize and kataba they complement each other. This one is getting a small nutrient from here. The other one is also getting a small nutrient from here. So they complement each other. Another advantage, it enhances the productivity of the farmland. So I just mentioned that they complement each other. So you know every crop, as much as they are taken from the soil, they give back. So if you're a maize farmer, hello, Emmanuel, call to you. Hi. Nana, Nana, hello. Hello. So if you are a maize farmer and you also have cassava, when you harvest the maize, the maize sticks, okay, the maize sticks, and of course the corn hash that you're going to remove from it, you don't have to burn it. After you remove, you harvest your maize, just use the cutlass to slice or chop them down into pieces and leave it on the soil to rot and mix with the soil. It helps to, you know, increase the nutrients in the soil and it helps the cassava that is yet to, you know, mature for you. You know, cassava is around eight months to one year, depending on the breed or the type that you have planted. So cassava takes longer than maize. So it means that if you plant maize on, let's say, three acres, and you have cassava like two acres, or let's say maize five acres, and then cassava five acres, when you harvest the maize, don't pack all the tree and then the hash can go and burn it. No, leave it there. Let it dry. Let it rot into the soil, and it helps the other crop that is yet to mature for you to have it. So that is another profitability or advantage that you get from mixed, you know, farming. The other one has to do, farmers can keep their field continuously under production. You can keep your field under continuous production. So it means that every time you are working, every time the farmland is working, it's giving you money, you are harvesting, you are replanting, you are harvesting this, you are harvesting that. So you are always busy with your farm workers. The land is working continuously because it's driving nutrients from here, helping this one to mature. You are harvesting, you are replanting, you are doing this and you are doing that. So every time the farmland is kind of working. And you know what? Mixed farming also helps a lot because you are not planting just one crop on the soil. There are some farmers who are into monocroping and what they do is that because he happens to be a cassava farmer, every day, every farming season, the two seasons we have in the southern sector, he does the same kind of farming. And when you do that, it doesn't help you get enough harvest or enough expected yield. So what you're supposed to know is that at least if this season you cultivated cassava, next year, that is if you don't do the mixed farming, next year, make sure that you cultivate a different crop so that you let the land taste a different form of inputs, seedling, and other things. It helps a lot. But if you keep harvesting or planting one style of crop on the land, it doesn't really help it that much. So these are just the few advantages that I will mention to you. Now let's quickly go or take a look at some of the crops that you can blend and plant on one land. Okay? So we have maize and cassava, which I mentioned already. Maize and cassava are two types of crops that you can actually cultivate on one land. And then we also look at plantain and banana. Plantain and banana. They are also allowed, you know, to plant the two of them. Cocoa and coconuts. Cocoa, coconuts. Cocoa, taro, or coconut taro. You can also plant these crops on one land. We also look at vegetables. Pepper and garden egg. Or eggplants. Pepper or garden egg. You can plant them on the same land. It is allowed. It's permitted that you plant them on the same land. Then we go to maize and plantain. You can also do the same with maize and plantain. You can also look at cocoa and beans. Cocoa and beans. You can plant them. And please, those of you who are aspiring to become cocoa farmers, or if you already have a cocoa farm, after you harvest the cocoa and you remove the cocoa beans from the pot, don't burn the pot. Crush it into pieces. Let it rot on the land. It is a great form of nutrients to the land. So take that into consideration. And the same thing with beans also. Do not throw the, after you remove the beans, do not throw this thing away. Make sure you keep it, crush it, and then bring it back. Mix it to the land. It helps a lot. Then we can do tomatoes and ochro. Just to mention a few. Tomatoes and ochro is also allowed for you to actually plant on the same land. Now, from there, let's look at the disadvantages. This is the risk that you're going to take if you cultivate or if you go into mixed farming here in our country. Decreased level of production as compared to monocropping. Decreased level of production as compared to monocropping. You know, when you have just one plant or just one livestock, if it is goats, if it is poultry, if it is guinea fowl, if it is turkey, you know that I have about a thousand pieces of turkey. And so you pay attention to it. You are able to capture as soon as there is any flu or any one of them that has an infection, you are able to capture it. And then you separate it from the others. Get your veterinary officer to come and take a look at it. If there's crops, you call the agroecastension officer to quickly visit the farm, take a sample of the leaves of the crop, and then go and test it. And then they recommend some kind of chemical for you to spray and then make sure that you get rid of it. But when you have more than one, being it's crops or you are doing crops and livestock, the level of production decreases. Okay? The level of production because the attention, they are sharing your attention. So it means that you pay attention to this one, you pay attention to this one, and someone is suffering. So that is one of the risks you are taking if you want to cultivate more than one crop or if you want to wear more than one livestock. Number two, animals can be hazardous if they are not firmly enclosed or tattered around. So you see, the last time I was in Temerley, one of the sheep, when we're doing the interview, one of the sheep were infected. And you can see the anus, you know, droppings and the anus area was having some discharge and all that. So in this case, if you have 1,000 sheep, 1,000 goats, 2,000 cows, and you're supposed to make sure that you take care of all of them equally, even with the help of a veterinary officer, the challenge of you not seeing on time one affected or infected sheep early or on time, it might affect two or three of them before you discover or before you realize that this sheep has an infection. and by the time you realize, it would have affected other two or three of it already because mind you, you have 2,000 of sheep, 2,000 of goats, 2,000 of this and that. So just imagine the stress you're going to go through, controlling them, feeding them, making sure they are kept in their appropriate places. My dear, the truth is that if there is a disease breakout, if there is an infection that one has, it is easily to affect other ones before your attention would catch it and then by the time you want to work on it, it would have affected a couple of them. That is another risk that you were taking if you decide to go to more than wearing one livestock. the other one has to do with it needs higher level of management and trained labor which is expensive. So, it is another risk. Moment you say, I want to do 1,000 acres of maize and then 1,000 acres, hello, Saka, hello to you, 1,000 acres of beans, you should know that the number of workers you are going to have will be more than number of extension officers you will need. It might be more than one because 1,000 acres is no joke for just one extension officer to be moving about. At times, their eyes are not everywhere. They might skip some lanes or some crops when they are doing inspection and all that. So, if you are planning to go into mixed farming, you are adding crops or you are cultivating crops and you are also adding livestock, it means that you will be needing a higher level of management and more trained staff members or employers or laborers to work with. That is a risk you would have to bear in mind that you will be taking so that when you have a number of these people around, it would help you. Morris, hello, well done to you too. It would help you to be able to keep an eye and you will not skip anything that would cost you a lot of money. Say, when you prepare and you don't want to hire enough labor when you are into mixed farming, then I don't know what you want to do. There will be trouble for you. The other risk you should bear in mind is that growth rate and optimal harvest date differs in appropriate climate conditions as well. So you see, carrots, onions, they have different durations, maturity period. Same as tomentos and oku. Samgalito, hello. So, they have different growth or maturity stage for you to harvest. Okay? So the truth of the matter is that if you say I'm doing tomentos and oku, it means that the harvesting level will be different from this one. So by the time this is matured, this is not matured. Samgalito, thank you so much. I am grateful and thank you for the feedback. So, the growth rates and the optimal harvest differs and that is stressful. It is so stressful because by the time you finish harvesting tomatoes, you might just rest for a few days and you have to quickly jump on and be harvesting your oku. And so just imagine and labors, when you finish harvesting, you don't need your labors anymore. You will need labors when you're going to replant and then after planting, you need just one or two to help you go on the farm weekly. so if you're working with five or ten labors, after harvesting, you don't need all the ten of them around. It will cost you money. It means that if they are charging you weekly, you have to pay weekly. But if they're charging you monthly, you have to pay monthly. So why would you keep ten or eight of them when they are not working at that moment? Do you understand? So it means that the growth rates harvesting time of every crop is different. So that is a risk you have to keep in mind. That if I say I'm doing maize and cassava, if I want to do chili pepper or scotch bonnets and eggplants, their maturity level is different. So please, and the climate condition that these crops need are all different. maybe okra need a same kind of weather. Pepper, chili pepper needs a hot weather. So if you have all of them on the one land or at one place, you should know what you are going for. It makes controlling, monitoring, maintenance procedure more difficult. More difficult. Maintain one of the risks you want to do mixed farming. One of the risks you are taking if you want to do mixed farming is that maintaining, controlling, monitoring procedures are very, very difficult. Because just imagine, the time you are going to devote to monitor how your cabbage farm is doing. When you finish that, you have to quickly jump and go and take care of the onion. You have to move and go to the watermelon. And you see, if you are having, let's say, big, big acres, let's say 10 acres of this and 10 acres of that, just imagine the stress you are going to put yourself through. Are you able to keep an eye on all these crops? You check it, you make sure you do the maintenance, controlling, and all that. So if you are going to do mixed farming system in Ghana, controlling maintenance procedure, monitoring, is going to be a little bit of difficulty. Keep that in mind. Competition among the farming agents for resources. Yes, I did say that each crop has a nutrient it gives to the soil. And so if you are cultivating more than one okra and pepper on one land, maybe they all leverage on each other. But another disadvantage or another risk is that they are all competing for the same manure, for the same fertilizer that you apply. And you see one funny thing is also that maybe the fertilizer that works for okra, it might not work for chili. So just imagine if you have your chili pepper here, you have the okra to the next row, you have garden eggs at the next row. Are you able to apply this input correctly? That one crop will not be lacking than the other one? you have to think about that. And then one species may host pathogens or diseases, transitions and becomes more easier. So what I'm trying to say basically is that that is the last risk or disadvantage of mixed farming. Is that, let's say, fall army worm, for instance. It is an annual worm that affects maize big time in Ghana. So if you want to become a maize farmer, please prepare that every year the fall army worm break out. And when it breaks out, certain farmers suffer. So if you have, let's say, maize and you are doing maize and cassava and there is a fall army worm, there's a likelihood that that same worm, that same infection, might jump onto the cassava. It might hurt the cassava. the transition is easy and you might end up losing everything. But if it is just maize, the moment you discover or realize that the fall army worm is attacking this rule, you quickly get your chemicals, spray it, monitor it, and ensure that it's not spread onto the next rule or the next line of crops. So one risk you're taking if you try to go into mixed farming is that infection rate transition is easy. When one crop is hosting, you know, some pathogens or infection, it's easy to transfer to the next. Right, so my name is Enyona Mane. I am Ghana's finest farmer. My company is called Count on Crops Habs. Count on Crops Habs. We render a range of agriculture services from hiring of extension offices, hiring of farm workers, helping you to buy a land in Ghana, helping you to check if the land is great or not, helping you to buy nursery or seedlings, helping you to register your farm. Please, treat farming or treat agriculture as business and not just anything. It is business. Keep records. If you are a farmer, as soon as you start the farming, from the day you buy your land to getting your tractor, to plowing the land, to buying your nursery and seedling, to laborers that you're hiring, anything you buy, please get pen and paper and keep records of it so that in case you have any friend or somebody who has seen what you're doing and they are interested, you have data, you have records to show that so far in the two years I have started my catfish farming or two years I've started my goat farming, this is how much I have spent. So if you're coming on board as an investor or a partner, I am expecting that you invest 50% of what I have already invested into the farming. There is nobody who is very, very business minded will see a document like that and say no, I'm not interested or I'm not sure. So please, if you have not registered your farm, get a name for your farm and let us have your details and register it for you. And all I say is that I charge a very small fee, a very small fee. When you call me and you know I'm going to talk about this and that, when I say that please pay my consultancy fee, don't be angry. Because you see, when we drive around the region to record the episodes you watch, it costs a lot of money. I pay a lot. I pay my cameraman, I pay my editor, transportation, fuel, it's a lot. It costs me a lot to produce each episode you watch on YouTube. So if you call for any services or inquiry and I am charging a little fee, don't be angry with me. Please make sure you subscribe to my channel. We have 6 plus K subscribers. Can we do a 10 K before this month's end? Please subscribe to the Ghanaian farmer. Share the links with your friends. You tell me how educated my content is. Please share it with somebody. Let's reduce unemployment by helping people watch this content to learn more, get interested and go into agriculture. If you have any questions, I am open to answer your questions. If not, then I'll say medase. Thank you. Akpeh. Numa adjobu. And then, next week, we'll meet again on YouTube. Until then, thank you very much for joining me today. I am very grateful for your time. Mother's Day is next month. I want us to visit a farming community with women, about 50 of them. Let's surprise them. I will need your support so that I can add what I have to go and donate some farming items, farming to you, to put a smile on the face of women. Remember that agriculture, those who lack a lot, in Ghana, are women. you speak Ghana. Yes, I speak Ghana. Shaka. Here we are Ghana. Papa. Here we are Ghana. So please, if you have any question, I am here to answer your question. Please make sure you share this link for a lot of people to watch it. And I will thank you very much. I appreciate your time with me. And so, hello. Yes, yes. Is there any question or we are done for today? We are done for today. Subscribe to my channel, the Ghanaian farmer. Let's get interactive on my community. Yes, go to my community if you have anything to share with me. Let me know where you are watching from, what your needs are. The basic ones I can help, but if it's detailed, that's where I charge a little fee. Until then, I'll see you again next week. My name is always Anyu Nam. Ghana's finance farmer. Yes. Bye-bye. Bye-bye. Bye-bye. Bye-bye. Bye-bye.