Skyrim: How To Change Farmhands All Methods Explained
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1yRzkeV6sow
Gaming
 Citizens of Tamriel, welcome! In today's video we're going to discuss how to make the farmhands your perfect mixture of what you want. Yeah we definitely don't want to do it this way. Let me show you why. So you got the basic farmhands but now you built your whole kingdom up and you're ready to have the ones you want and the ones you want to use. So in today's video we're going to go ahead and show you how to do that. We'll start off right here. There is a good way and a bad way to do it. You can pick up anyone in the city that's a beggar and if you decide that you want to change them out you go and click them here and then if you decide you want to hire them again you have to pay another 250 gold. So you can dismiss and change anyone's that you pick up in the world. You can change them in and out at your heart's desire. As for your C word you can also change him and out as your heart's desire. Any other followers put them in. It'll work. You do have to complete a farmer's life for me quest and buy all the upgrades before it will let you dismiss them though. So if you haven't done all that those options won't appear. Let's say that you have farmhands that you just ask him to buy for the 250 gold or 500 gold. Well now we'll go ahead and show you what happens when you get those. You can also this is one way that you can do it. I would not recommend this way but I'll go ahead and show you because it is one of the ways to do it. So what we do is we start here and you're like okay I'm tired of this farmhand. I'm just gonna get rid of him. Now by doing that this way will cause you to get a bounty and all everybody turns hostile so you will start losing your livestock if they get in the way of the fight. If you have a follower with you they will engage in the fight as well. So you will have to take out everybody to get your bounty taken away or if you just take out the ones you want and they see it they will remain hostile to you every time you return to the house. However if you do do it this way I'll go ahead and show you what happens is you take out your farmhands and then everybody's gone your bounty is clear everything's good everything back to normal but now you need a new setup. If your followers able to be a C-word that you have with you you can immediately make them your new person in charge and then it will let you go through the process of hiring 200 and or paying the 500 to get two new farmhands. There is not a way to dismiss the farmhands if you did not pick them up in the world. If you picked them up in the world then you can dismiss them as I previously showed you but if you have the farmhands that you buy then it cannot be done unfortunately. What you can do is I did find a workaround and I'd like to show that to you now. The safest way is you take your C-word and you make him your follower again. So now we're buddies and you see you can take them and now you go and you only have two farmhands. So if you go and you slice one there no hostile. So then you can go back and ask her to buy another one and you can pay 250 gold and it will replace that farmhand. So it's taking a second here of course. So now that the new farmhand is there it spawns a new one in and you can go look and you look at this one. But you're like hey Beach I don't like this one either. I thought you said we could get unlimited. You can because you can rinse and repeat this as many times as you want. As long as you take your C-word as your follower first no one becomes hostile. Then you're able to just rinse and repeat this method to get the farmhand that you like. And if this is all too much work for you you can also just find the ones that you want in the world as I showed you at the start of the video. After multiple tests this is the only way that I found that you're able to switch your farmhands in and out with no repercussions. So let me know in the comments below if you found a different way to do it. Ah another history making moment in the lore of Skyrim. That book is closed but don't you worry because we have brand new Skyrim content coming out every Saturday. So make sure you don't miss out and hit that subscribe button. And we also have a merch store that has wonderful things that any gamer will love. Remember make life your beach. We'll see you on the next video.