Diversified Crop Rotation Adds Value
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=22jmJtPNkRI
Science & Technology
 Music I'm from a small little town in Resaca, Georgia, in the northwest corner of the state. In 2008, we decided to vertically integrate our business. So we put in an expeller press oil mill, and with the intention of adding value per acre. We moved from being just soybeans, corn, and wheat to growing canola and sunflowers, other oilseed crops. So that added rotation helped us on our other crops. 2011 rolled on, and we decided that it was time for us to continue to add value. We saw the benefit in adding in those other crops that we did, the canola and the sunflowers. So we added in barley, we added in oats, we added in grain sorghum, to continue to diversify what we grow on our farm and produce on our farm. Music There's so much more to blow the ground than above the ground that I need to know about. And that we should have been testing for this much, much sooner than we are today. What we're doing with the nematodes, and what we have learned today, is it adds value on top of what we're doing on our farm. And so anytime that we can increase our yield, reduce our pesticide, herbicide usage as much as we can, because ultimately that's bottom line. And so if we can reduce that through crop rotation, through genetics, through other things, then that helps us produce a better product. It also helps us tell our story different. We've always been told that canola is an opportunity that is a non-host for nematodes. So what we've been doing for the last several years, for the last ten years since 2008, is that we have canola and then we follow with double crop beans. So we never have back-to-back beans, and usually we're a three-year crop rotation. So with that knowledge, we didn't think that we needed to do testing. We didn't know that that would be an issue. And so learning today that we're not only looking for cyst nematodes, but we're also looking for other types that can affect these other crops is powerful. Music Music Thank you.