He Farms 35 Hours a Week By Himself and Makes 6 Figures
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=26qTgXJKMAE
Howto & Style
 Five years ago I met a guy named Andrew at a farm-to-table dinner and today we are at his farm which he manages all by himself while working 35 hours a week and grossing over six figures a year. I see him over there. You're gonna love this tour. Let's go find him. What's going on man? Hey what's up? Snook up on me there. I know, I know. What are you up to? Cultivating? Yeah just getting the cultivation going. Dude this place looks amazing. I appreciate it. It really does. What is it like an acre? A little over? A little over an acre. Yeah. And it's all you? All me? All me out of here. 165 50-foot beds. That's crazy. Yeah. That is crazy. I still can't believe that you do it all yourself. Like it's bizarre. It's bonkers to me because you look this far and damn I mean it keeps on going. It's out there. So let's just go right here talk about classic bed prep and how does it all work? Yeah. So my standard bed as you can see it here I stake them out at 30 inch wide. Which is the Market Gardeners 18 inch centers. Yep. You know so it gives us plenty to go down a wheelbarrow with whatever. And then uh pretty much everything's super intensive so nothing ever goes empty. Lettuce row here. Classic lettuce row. There's those cut and come agains you know. Yeah. Just beautiful. This is actually going to be harvested for the market this weekend. These are picture perfect right now. Yeah. How are you harvesting these guys by yourself? All by hand. So you're just using a knife and just one knife cut and come again. Especially with the head lettuces I just like to I mean I can burn through this thing and then they all just cut super clean ready to rock and roll. Yeah. Behind us we have some overwintered carrots that are starting to explode. Uh let's see we put these guys in. These are a little later. Yeah. I put these in in November. Okay. Yeah. So these are littler guys you know. Nice shape on this. Yeah. These are those Mocums. Oops. Snapped. Yeah. Super, super sweet. Gotta give it that bite test. Super sweet. Got the crunch. Oh that's nice. Yeah. Yeah. The Mocums are really nice and they're super fast. 55 days. Mm-hmm. So that's why I like them and then they you know and the thing I like about them too is you could actually harvest them these pencil size. So you know a lot of carrots they'll take a lot of time to get to size and then they'll get funky and but these. I feel like a chef might like that or maybe just a you know home home cook might like a different shape. Exactly. Kind of nice. You don't have to peel them. You don't have to do anything with them. Mm-hmm. So talk to me about the land like when you got here what did you have to do because it's been you the whole time right? No one else. It's been me the whole time yeah. So you like when you first came here you did all these rows. I built started building them all. Really? Okay. So you didn't like expand over the years type thing you're just like boom I'm in. No. Yeah. No I did expand over there. Okay. So like I did like 20 rows one week 20 rows the next week and then second year I started coming down this backside here and then third year I opened up at 20 more rows in that back. Wow. So yeah year by year I just kind of keep adding little chunks here trying to really utilize my space here as much as I can. What did you do for soil uh amendments etc when you started out? Um I used a lot of mineral dust in the very beginning. Yeah. Composted the crap out of everything because this soil here um not in this particular area this is pretty good but more towards the hoops is a really really drained out rocky area so I had to really load up compost. Really? Yeah. Um so I used 30 yards roughly every year. Okay. Um every bed flip if it gets emptied gets a whole new compost layer about an inch layer on there. Every single time? Every single time. Okay. You know so it gets composted maybe you know twice three times a year. So is that your biggest input besides perhaps seed I guess is compost then or maybe water? Water and compost yeah. Send it to your house. And then I use a true organics uh pelleted fertilizer as well. Okay. Which is a 757. Yeah. Just a nice all-purpose uh slow release. Yeah. I want to know like routine you know because you're telling me you do it all yourself which is sort of unbelievable honestly even though I know it's true. Um but not only that but you're doing it at maybe 35-40 hours a week. Yep. So like less honestly less than almost everyone's office job you know. For sure. Which is crazy to me. Yeah. So like these beds right behind you for instance had broccoli in it two weeks ago. It was overwintered broccoli. You know I cut them down to the surface let the roots go in. I laid the compost on I put tarp on for a week. Boom. After that tarp was on I undid it. Yeah. Raked it out and then I literally just direct seeded straight into it. Put the tarp white side up. Yeah. Two days later we're here. Are you starting and transplanting anything or are you direct so everything? Yeah. Yeah. Um so like I direct so arugula and mescaline carrots beets. Anything you can right. I would imagine you would prefer to direct so. Yeah I have a small greenhouse at my house. Okay. You know a little 10 by 20. Yeah. So I can't you know I would love to transplant beets and things like that. I just don't have the space. Yeah. So I direct seed those things. But things like these tomato starts. I started all these guys you know and then I up planted them. You know so these these are actually uh from uh Brad Gates. Oh no way. Up at Wild Boar Farms. What variety? Afternoon Delight. Okay. Is the purple. See that purple guy. Yeah. Are you doing like a Florida weave on this then? Just a no no this is kind of like a I don't know the guys in Monterey taught me this little this little system. I just pretty much tie one in. Yeah. Loop it and then I'll have six different string or five different strings and then I come in. Yeah. And I just you just do oh oh that's interesting. See this nice little tie. You do this little sandwich off right here to keep it nice and taut. So I'll tie them in and then these taut and then you'll just go up every six inches eight inches and you just do another. Yep. That's like a different. This is actually an example of a row. Sure. That was an old mescaline. I tarped it, composted it, roots are still decaying in there. Yeah so you're not ripping out. And then I stick tomatoes straight back in there. So this stuff's alive. They go they go pretty quick. You know if you rub your hands on that they they're just gone. Yeah. They're in there and that's carbon. Just back into the soil. That's carbon. Totally. And so that's kind of another you know I don't look at as necessarily a cover cropping system but it definitely does add. It kind of is. Yeah. Because every week they're going straight back into the ground. You're taking the top two-thirds of plant matter and selling it off and then the bottom one-third you're just letting go. Yep. And a lot of time I'll let it do a little growth again and then I'll drop it and let it sit. How many seasons have you turned here? Six or seven probably. Oh shoot. Especially with the direct seeded stuff. Really? I'm constantly, every every single week I seed arugula, salad and mescaline. Yeah. Every single week. Have you seen your need for inputs to go down like compost go down at all? Not yet. Not yet. Certain rows definitely. Yeah. But like the heavier turned rows perhaps? Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. More more input on them. But certain areas like up in that far side definitely just going to have to keep on it. I think eventually for sure we'll be able to back off. You know if you're a market farmer and you're trying to buy in inputs. Yep. Obviously you're using SPV soils but quality wise like what are you looking for? Quality wise I always ask the testing of carbon or carbon nitrogen ratio. Yeah. So that CN ratio is crucial. Yeah. Do you care about like an NPK count on it or not really? No. Yeah. No. I do care about the diversity. Yeah. You know so like this one. Yeah. So like I know SPV uses a lot more manure based cow base. So like probably next year I'll go with the chicken farmer up here and do more of a chicken compost base. Oh so you'll switch your supplier based on input. Yeah. If you can't get it from one place. Yeah. That or and just create more of that diversity. Yeah. You know instead of just loading in a bunch of phosphorus, phosphorus, phosphorus. We've been using them for all of our raised bed stuff too. Yeah. Like all the all the in-ground compost in the backyard. Yeah. Like my version of this market farm which is certainly not on the same scale but yeah. Yeah. So these are those Chandlers I was telling you about. These are second year Chandlers. Oops sorry. But yeah dude these things are going crazy. These are Chandlers. These were super popular in Monterey. These things are just going off. You know. That's like classic. Yeah. These are cool. I honestly saved these initially just for myself because I was like I just love this fine texture. You know the super sweet. Nice shape. Shape. Yeah. They don't have great shelf life though. So for a market berry it's not too good. It's tough. You know. Yeah. I'll harvest on Friday. Take them to market Saturday and they're starting to go. Really? Okay. So unless you're doing like farm stand straight out. Maybe this is like a you pick berry then right? Or a you pick berry. Exactly. Uh okay. Where should we go next? And then uh let's see. What we got? We could talk covers. You got the shade cover over here I want to talk about. Yeah. So these guys it's just the next succession of a lettuce planting that we just kind of went over in that other area. Are you always shading it in the first like week or so or? Anything 75 and above yeah. I'll go ahead and shade it all out for two weeks. Two weeks. Yeah. Two weeks. Let it establish. Yep. Yeah. And then uh I'll let it uncover. I'll uncover it for a night. Do you have like a particular shade that you like? This looks like kind of a light lighter shade. 40 percent. Yeah. I did do 30 percent but out here in Monterey. Or not Monterey. Out here in Ramona. Um I think the sun's a little bit more intense up here with a little elevation. Yeah. Tense heat. Yeah dude. It's it's gnarly up. We get hot. It's hot. It's cold though. Yeah that's the thing. It's hot and it's cold. We get cold and we get super windy. Where I'm at it's like we're at like 45-ish lows and maybe we'll touch 100. Yeah. Maybe. Yeah. You know so I'm sure yours is what you're like 25 to 110 or something like that. Pretty much yeah. Yeah. When are you using this bed prep method where you're sort of plopping you know what like silage tarp or something on top? This in particular I'm using because you see that mint? Yeah. Oh yeah. Oh sure. Um that mint was coming in on all the rows and so I'm using these guys more or less a barrier. So these are going to kill off that mint right here. Yeah. And then not go anymore. What are you going to throw on these? I'm trying to get some damn summer squash in here but with this. Spacing looks like a big plant yeah. Yeah yeah we'll have big you know every 18 inches or so and then I got cucumbers popping in here. Oh there they are. Yeah yeah yeah. You know and they're starting to pop but earwigs in this time of year or nasty so we do a lot of replanting. Mm-hmm. But this stuff's going crazy. That's popping off. Yeah and then I got to clear this out and then uh put something else there. Yeah yeah because this is a bed. This is a bed. Right. Or was for a while. Exactly. Just overtaken. Then I got some baby egg plants in this going on. Nice. Um and here's gonna be I think some more lettuce heads. So these are little gem lettuces. Yeah. Back here. So these are all planted on Monday. So you're just using a very simple just hoop and shade. Yeah pretty much. On the same irrigation set. Yeah nothing. The trick is you got to get them big enough so the you know the hoops are about five feet so they get nice. Yeah. This is a pretty cool crop. Yeah so they actually cover over. This nice spinach crop coming in. Yeah that is nice. You have the variety on this? That is a regiment. It's looking good. So these two beds were experiments that I just kind of pushed. I was using this little section. You can see I shade out early here. This is my cue over here. And so I was kind of using that as my cue over here. And I'm hoping to push them to end of June. With that tree and that cover right there. Feels like it makes sense. just one of those tiny little farmer things that you'd think about right? The tree good. That's nuts and nuts and grass Halfway and greenżurged the yellowed Yuimu say that that is. Exactly. Oh hey there's a tree. Yeah it's a tree right there. totally a farmer thing to think about let's check out down here man because this is like almost none of the farm exactly we've seen a block yeah one block of the farm how do you keep track of everything just all in your head or you got like journals and notes and stuff i got journals yeah i got planning journals things like that i mean the direct seeded stuff so easy that it's every week so it's all yeah you know that stuff i keep out but i keep on track of all of my uh broccoli plantings my pepper plantings all that making sure i'm getting adequate amounts yeah um is this just salanova here another salanova yeah you know so one of the most expensive lettuce seeds out there yeah it's going crazy it still is right oh my gosh yeah so i actually this is actually a cool one from you so vitalis yeah remember that one time you went to vitalis seeds yeah those one cuts and i asked you boom there they are oh really yeah these are easy these are easy cuts these aren't the silent salanova so i went with the because of the money um and these are performing just as good and it's like the market garden crowd made the salanova was just too expensive you know so you know and there's so many varieties coming out every year that there's got to be something right that works exactly yeah and you'll find it and i found them and they're here these ones are cool these are green garlics that we're pulling in oh you're going green yeah so this little half row i did green garlics and then we did some regular onions here so i just kind of keep mowing it down and so you're just going to chop them and and sell them for the tops then yeah yeah so i just yank them yeah i yank them and we use them for the bases this is what i i say like because we are my garlic just got hit by rust like crazy yeah and i'm like it's just green garlic that's why i grew it you know what i mean yeah let's cut the top off you know yeah yeah mine are starting to burn a bit because uh they are actually going to start bulbing here in the next month yeah so they'll start dying back i mean you can tell it's already starting to go exactly separate yeah green garlic is my favorite thing and this variety here i've saved and and i've grown and saved the seed for seven years now it came from me with monterey and i brought it down and i've just been slowly adapting it to my climates yeah um because it's the only softback variety that i found that works down here really yeah interesting and so what's the variety name it's just an early italian yeah um but now seven years now it's sort of your variety exactly now it's you know indian summer farms and indian summer garlic yeah so it's pretty cool so you'll just let some grow out completely then right this roll it so that garlic raw let it bulb out yeah so i have a full one there and then way back yonder you see the tops over there yeah i have one back there so one of those two is your seed garlic for next season the rest is harvested out exactly yeah i'm gonna check out a hoop house let's check it out let's do it you're telling me you're adding one more a year every year we're adding a hoop house that's my that's my goal we just added this one here in the corner uh about a month ago this whole area is going to be my pepper block yo look at this broad fork though yeah what kind of broad fork is this franken pork see how dude so my father-in-law my father-in-law he was at a estate sale in ojai he lives in ojai yeah and he came by this thing and the guy was like you know what it is he's like yeah of course i do yeah and uh the guy was like since you know what it is i'll sell it to you for 10 bucks that's a deal so cheapest broad fork i've ever heard of he's just see yeah i try not to get the tines too far deep because you see how monstrous those things are huge dude you know so i go about halfway in and and because you're you're broad forking and that's it right you're no you're no till no disturbance besides that right yeah pretty much broad fork and raking yeah so like these i just planted today yeah these are the sakuras so these are going to be those long cherries um they'll get trellised up on these little wires this is where you're saying you go with a single leader because it's easier to pick yeah yeah yeah let the trusses get nice and but there's space kind of close together no yeah i do uh a hundred of them right here in the middle at about 18 inches apart 18 inches on centers pretty tight but works it works yeah well i guess if you go single leader and trim them down yeah and take all the suckers off after exactly every week they get every single week they get you know and they get all the stuff out there and these will probably go until about september october and you're selling all this stuff just at farmers markets yeah just at the little little east farmers market right now that's it yeah only one only one oh shoot yeah why not anything up here not as much of a market not as much market i'm building that structure over there i'm actually that one i was talking about what i was going to sell tomato starts and strawberry starts out of we're going to be starting the farm stand out here too okay so i'll be opening it up probably wednesday when my daughter goes to daycare and then yeah it makes sense um start selling it here everyone i talked to with with the market farm thing you you're so interesting to me because you've figured out a way to do it with by yourself so you're not incurring tons of labor costs which is like almost always what people run into but you've somehow also figured out how to do it without going 80 100 hours a week and just like that's your life you live in the soil you know which is a really interesting blend so what have you had to give up of like the classic market farmer best practices or whatever like what have you had to not do i mean you can see out here i keep things a little wild yeah you know yeah i like that kind of stand i don't keep it super tip tip top tight yeah you know i do let things go a little bit if there's areas i know i'm gonna tarp it's gonna gonna let them go and i think that type of stuff is you're not you're not you're doing it something if it's necessary exactly yeah not if it's not if it looks good or whatever not that it doesn't look good to be clear right but just you know you do see those market farms where it's like pristine there's nothing there's nothing there's no weeds but i you know i actually like some weeds you know because it's rooted in the ground that's my whole motto is i want things covered i want roots in the ground i don't you know out here in this kind of arid climate if it's too empty it gets dusty it gets hot it gets you know so i kind of want some greenery it's kind of interesting the idea of just letting the natural weeds creep through the pathways creep through the pathways otherwise because you're going to trample them they'll they'll break down they'll die whatever so it's kind of nice right exactly you know you know with something like these you just kind of just give it that little give it a little dust and they'll be toast yeah after that especially in this heat man so we planted some peppers in here today these are little habanados on the side and of course some lacionados yeah i actually have starts going right now i'm putting kale chard any of my like pole and bundle greens i plant those every three to four months just just regardless just regardless just to keep a fresh batch going keep it nice and strong yeah and then if an old batch does keep rocking and rolling just let it rip let it rip keep pulling keep harvesting boom it's kind of that little insurance policy as you know just successioning everything why not you know and that's what the whole thing was is like get this lettuce here yeah this is going to get all mowed out so this was an example of frost damage so these were all lacionados and this whole back area was planted with broccoli and lacionado yeah and with that frost that came through here two weeks ago smothered them the coldest night i you know i was like oh i'm not going to cover them it's you know they'll be fine yeah of course one night i don't cover so how did you start you look at this today and you're like okay this guy's on another level you know obviously didn't start out that way yeah yeah i mean the first years you know you just start super small yeah super tight do what you can do managing um you know i worked a full-time uh night job on top of that so i came out here during the day worked night uh made ends meets that way um do you have to put like a down like a down payment on the lease or take out any loans or anything like that or no no loans i don't do any loans i don't want to put any pressure on me in terms of that way everything was if i didn't have the cash i didn't buy it yeah you know um you know of course i could have all the fancy tools and this and that but i just found what i needed and i went with it and uh and yeah so i just kind of saved super super low cost keep my cost of production as low as i can so i can sell things as you know most profitable as you can good point um yeah because you can you can price it however you want obviously the market bears what it bears but are you able to be more competitive i guess exactly exactly and have the margins a little bit tighter and um and the other thing is is you know like these hoop houses you know they i didn't couldn't go out and buy them all at one time sure so every year i just keep adding you keep adding yeah this year i plan on adding an irrigation system every year i try to add an upgrade that's going to take me yeah to do less yeah if that makes sense it reminds me when i like used to be addicted to like sim city or something like that like every year you get enough in the budget you upgrade the roads you upgrade the plumbing exactly whatever what seems to be the next necessity yeah totally it's like irrigation's next you're saying yeah irrigation's next um i spent a lot of time flipping the little dials so that's my next thing is i want to automate it completely and that way i could just leave for a couple days yeah that'd be nice yeah dude well thanks for showing it to us yeah i'm glad i got to come up here super inspiring especially if you're watching like no debt 30 40 hours a week yep six figure business figure business living out here just chilling not chilling sorry not chilling you're right now we're chilling right now i did not catch you on a chill day uh earlier today but uh dude it's awesome it's really gratifying i mean i could if i could encourage anybody to do it i would we need more small farms like this to do it you know thanks for having us dude i really appreciate it thanks for coming yeah of course indian summer farm guys good luck in the garden and keep on growing