Ohio Corn & Wheat: Grow Ohio's Future
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=28mJYBZQqs8
News & Politics
 What it means to raise the next generation here on this land, there are hardly words. We just hope to teach them to honor and respect the land. Farming is all I ever wanted to do from the time I was five or six years old. No matter the generation, it all starts here. Before the planting, before the planting, after the harvest, and every moment in between, Ohio Corn & Wheat is working on behalf of corn and small grain farmers to grow Ohio's future. Ohio Corn & Wheat has some vital roles in helping the profitability of Ohio corn farmers, whether through export markets or building more demand here at home with new uses. Obviously, the goal is to make the Ohio farmer more profitable. From ethanol expansion to exports, research to resilience, we're focused beyond the fields, fueling progress, shaping policy that protects the land, and making sure your voice is heard on issues that matter close to home. I believe Ohio Corn & Wheat's role in creating the next generation of successful farmers is bringing those farmers together, building those relationships. So, Ohio Corn & Wheat can be a foundation block, and you're able to go on and do your job more successfully. A team invested in your success, Ohio Corn & Wheat is pioneering solutions to help make grain more profitable, tackling challenges like vomit toxin head-on. That's opening doors to new opportunities around the world. It's important for farmers all across Ohio to get involved with organizations like Ohio Corn & Wheat, just because they are farmer-led organizations, and it lets our voice be heard. In the classroom, we're educating the next generation. And in communities across our state, we're feeding and fueling farms and families. The story of growers, your story, is being told every day. We're not just dreaming about the future. We're unlocking its potential one kernel, one seed at a time. We know Ohio Corn & Wheat's there. They have our back. They are in Columbus. They're in Washington. They are looking out for our interests while we can focus on what's going on with our operations. To grow opportunity, not just for you, but for them too. At Ohio Corn & Wheat, we're growing Ohio's future together. Experience the benefits of membership. Join or renew now. Continue here at Все. Choose online or renew now. Be signed or renew now. Doå leat in Washington. There are other guests who Commission has needed to join for Alex Levine, and São Willis formax-bearing questions.