Processing Rough Hay
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2gTFK3CK6_8
Education
 Hello my name is Ray Bittner. I'm a livestock specialist with Manitoba Agriculture. This video will show you how to process rough hay so your beef cows can more easily consume it. Rough hay is a dry hay that's harvested from low lands that occasionally flood and our harvest is part of a cleanup process. The hay is usually used as a cattle fiber and feed source or sometimes as bedding if the ground is frozen or if it's damp and muddy. Rough hay actually refers to a wide variety of species but in general it's reeds, rushes and grasses that can tolerate moisture. Most rough hay is made on land that isn't accessible every year because it's too wet. Some parts of rough hay may be residue from a previous year or maybe just be harvested very late in the summer season. If that's the case the hay is very mature and coarse. Companies that manufacture hay hammer mills and flail type bale processors actively promote rough hay processing. These promoters will advertise that you can save a lot of money by having your cows eat low-cost feed like rough hay or straw. The reason the cows are more likely to intake processed feed is because it's easier to consume. If the hay or straw is in the rough form it is very fibrous and hard to chew and swallow. While this is mostly true there are some things that you need to do together with processing a rough hay to make it a workable part of balanced ration for gestating beef cows. Point one, processing will help your cows eat more rough feed than they would if the hay was unprocessed in the bale form or rolled out on the ground. Point two, cows need a minimum amount of energy and protein to be able to digest high fiber rough hay. If the entire diet you give your cows comes only from a rough hay bale they will only be getting 45% total digestible nutrients and 5% protein. No amount of processing will allow that bale to give your cows 60% total digestible nutrients and 9% protein they need. If you're planning on only processing rough hay and adding nothing else processing may actually negatively affect your cows nutrition. Here's why. Cows generally approach whole bales or rough hay by picking the species with the most nutrients or the parts of the entire bale that will raise the content nutrient concentration. If you process the bale but add nothing else the cows selection process is hugely reduced. They get no more nutrition they would get from the whole bale with all the lower quality portions included. You can make rough hay worked in your cattle's digestive tract and make better use of these high fiber low-cost feeds by finding a way to supplement energy and protein. The simplest way to add energy and protein is the alfalfa hay or alfalfa silage. Alfalfa is normally a great supplement of protein calcium and energy. It can also be a very cost effective and simple to feed. On the other hand cereal or corn grain mixed with a protein supplement or high protein screening pellet can be an ideal supplement to help make rough hay work when forage supplies are limited. If you have more questions please contact us at toll free 1-844-769-6224 or go to manitoba.ca slash agriculture or follow us on Twitter. If you find yourself short of good quality forages consider processing rough hay but before you do please consult your local Manitoba agriculture livestock specialist. Through feed testing and ranched and balancing we can help you find the most efficient way to maintain your cow herd when the feed gets hard to acquire.