Farm Animal Husbandry (Revision) - JSS3 Agric
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2NGuiOyoVN0
Education
 Hi guys, nice having you here today. Today we are looking at farm animal horse boundary, the revision. You have done this in GSS2 and I want to believe that by the time we are through today you are going to learn one or two things. Much more than what you have learned before now. Objectives, we want to define farm animal horse boundary, we want to describe system management, and then we want to discuss management practices in animal horse boundary. Now definition of animal horse boundary. Now it's the process of managing and keeping of farm animals for the production of meat, milk, and eggs. Now the process of managing and keeping. You manage them and you keep them for the production of meat, milk, eggs, and others. Now let's look at system management. Number one, we have extensive or free range. Here you allow the animals to fend for themselves. You allow them to move from one place to another. How they feed, where they live, or anything. It's not your business. So it is called free range system. The next one is intensive. Now under this intensive, you confine them. You are in charge of their housing, you are in charge of their feeding, you are in charge of their health, and other things. Okay. So you confine them. It is called intensive system. Now semi-intensive system is in between the free range and intensive system. Here you feed them, you house them, and then when they are done in the morning, you allow them to go out for grazing. And so after that, they will come back or you have to go out to look for them. Now these are the three system management that we have in farm, animal, horse family. Okay. Now management practices. Now these are the things that you do, you know, most especially if you are operating the intensive system. Now the first one is de-warming. Here you give them de-warming drugs. You de-warm them from endoparasites like liver flu, like roundworm, and then like hookworm. Okay. Deep it. Now you do this as a result of ectoparasites. Okay. For example, teeth, lice, and others. Now drenching. Drenching is also a practice where you have to free or make sure that the animals are free from ectoparasite. Cooling. Now cooling is the removal of unproductive animals or animals with vices or animals that are not doing well. Okay. You remove them completely and you don't return them back. It's not that you are going to isolate them. When they are done, you bring them back. Cooling is you remove them totally from the flock. Now we have pictures of some of these management practices. Here you have nose restraining. Okay. If you want to perform drenching or you want to perform dipping, here you restrain the animals. Okay. You use a nose holder to hold your nose for so that the water from the deep or from the drench will not get into them. Okay. So you can see this picture. Yes. The next one. This is de-warming. Very, very important. Most especially if you are going to carry out artificial insemination. Now what is artificial insemination? Now this is where you put the spermatozoa into the female animal. And so you have to restrain the tail for you to be able to perform this operation very well or perfectly. Now the next one is castration. Now here you have the castrator. We have this is called body zone. Okay. Now the next one is castration. for you to be able to perform this operation very well or perfectly. Now, the next one is castration. Now, here you have the castrator. We have, this is called the bodysol. Okay? Now, bodysol sprays out. Now, we have two ways in which you can castrate your animals. You can use your bodysol, and then you can use your sharp razor blade to do that. Now, this is majorly used for animals with dangling, reproductive organ, majorly the cattle. Okay? And so, it's an important operation that you need to perform or practice that you need to do for your farm animals to make them to be dozer. What do I mean by that? Not to be aggressive, to be friendly, and then to make them to increase in size and weight so that they can be useful for you on your farm. Now, this is another way you can restrain them if you want to dip them or if you want to drench them. Now, this also is very, very important if you want to administer and vaccine to them. You need to restrain their fall and their hind legs. You can see all this. That's another practice that you need to do to make the animals too perfect. Alright, thank you for paying attention. In your Google class, you have more explanation on this. And I want to believe that you have gained one or two things. And I want to believe that you will do better or you do your tanks also better in your Google class. Thank you for paying attention. Have a great day. Thank you. Thank you.