2023 UPSC IAS Mains answer writing batch - Agriculture lec 2
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2ZKtBF8Jal8
Education
 DHARZ Körperer küçük So, National Mission for Sustainable Agriculture and Pradhan Mantri Krishishyaj May protecting the development of justice and sustainability is even known as the political critics and Давyasagerees. And we have two-four things from design to food chain. The first thing that it is about the sustainability of the country was being concerned is all due to the diversity of mata oil and Turtle climate fashion Because as we switch to GMO, there are many things like pest resistance and all things are developed. But the problem is that the food chain will affect the future. We don't know. We are not able to properly predict that. So genetic engineering and food. Now, we have not done much in India, but only a BT cotton and a recently genetically modified mustard variety. But in this case, there might be a question on the safety of GMO and so on. But at least one thing is good. I think that Indian organizations, like Delhi University, have created them. Indian firms and research institutions have created them. When we had BT cotton, that was developed by Monsanto. And there is a little green deflation concept. Time to time, those major companies are always trying to do this. You know, they would want to profiteer from whatever possible. So BT cotton is definitely a trouble. So, if we are getting GMO, at least Indian version, If there will be any trouble in the future, in the food chain or somewhere, Indian research institutions will be able to work it out. If there is a whole technology outside, we will not be able to do that. That will be the concern. This is a food chain. The other issue is climate change. The major issues are in terms of water. Agriculture is always water dependent in terms of irrigation. India has almost 50% irrigation. 50% monsoon dependence. And this monsoon is very erratic. Temporally and regionally. Now, due to the erratic monsoon, there is a lot of rain. And sometimes, there is a lot of rain. Sometimes, there is a lot of rain on one side. And the rest of the year will be dry. So, the management is more important. Whatever water is available, we have to manage it properly. In that management, two or three areas are there. First area is efficiency of usage. So, So, Here, let's say water productivity. So, here, the techniques are like sprinkler system, or drip irrigation. So, you need to tell them about these techniques. The other thing is conservation. So, conservation in the sense, One is recharging groundwaters. Second is construction of dams, ponds, lakes. So, that is water conservation. And moreover, wetland conservation also. So, those areas are left here. The third area comes to the management area, it comes to embankment, like to strong or disaster mitigation. So, that is also part and parcel. Now, you are seeing Punjab, every place. So, that is disaster mitigation. Disaster mitigation has to happen. The river embankments, they have to check time to time, to strengthen, so that they are contained. So, that is flow manageable. So, that is the disaster mitigation. Because sometimes, because of the erratic nature of monsoon, these kind of things are bound to happen. So, that is water. The third area that needs to work upon the sustainable aspect of agriculture is the seed. So, as far as the seed is concerned, it is called as harbinger of technology in agriculture. I hope you are noting that. Harbinger of technology in agriculture. So, here, one of the genetically modified seeds are the same, but in the normal way, we have different variants of seeds. Like breeder seed, then, there are new variants. Now, these variants are the same, quality control is a major concern. And in India, although there is a seed act, but it is an outdated legislation. The 60s is the same. So, quality control, after the privatization, after the genetic engineering, after the law, the policy governing seed, that needs to be improved. So, there is another thing that is seed replacement ratio. That should be somewhere near one-third. I mean, if I have three acres of land, I will add one acre of new seed every year. This is the 24% of productivity. And the hectare yield increases. So, this seed replacement ratio is not ideal in India. It is not ideal. It is necessary to achieve it. So, with the seed, these are two basic seeds. Okay. Then, fourth aspect in sustainable agriculture is your fertilizer. Now, as far as fertilizer is concerned, we have a nutrient subsidy scheme, NPK. But, we all know that the ratio of NPK is in India. Nitrogen is more than used, because it is less than used. Phosphorus and potassium fertilizer is less than used. Now, what is the government's trying to do for basic management? The one that gives the subsidies fertilizer, is to give the soil health card with the soil health card. It is a integrated subsidy. It is a solution to give the subsidies. It is a pilot basis. I have tried some of these things. But, there is no pan-india. But, it is necessary to do it. Essentially, you need to get the subsidies for that nutrient. That is the suggestion. You need to put it in this way. Accordingly, you will get the subsidies for that. If you have a subsidy in your soil. If you have more nitrogen, then you will not get the subsidies for that. That is how it should be. So, slowly, we will go to this. But, the mechanism is now ready. Soil health card. We will try to give the subsidy directly to farmers, DBT, to give them. What is it now? It is given as a production subsidy to the fertilizer manufacturing companies. So, we will shift the production subsidy to the fertilizer company. And, we will give them to DBT through. Now, these two things are independently going in the case. But, then, they need to be connected. Soil health card, right now, the thing is only awareness generation. That farmer will be aware of their soil. And, they will be valid for three years. That, that, I will add fertilizer. Okay? But, they will not work in India. When there is a subsidy in some things, it will not be unnecessary. If you understand them, technically, then, you need to stop giving the subsidy. Then, you will rationalize it slowly. So, you will not say that subsidy should be stopped. You have to say, rationalization of subsidies, as per the requirements of the soil, as indicated by the soil health card, of an individual farmer. So, accordingly, it will not be able to get a subsidy. Simple as that. Okay? You want to put it on the POS basis, or point of sale basis, or integrate it. How do you do that? The other issue is the bio-fertilizers. Organic agriculture, organic farming. So, what is bio-fertilizer? What is that? We use the chemical fertilizers in Green Revolution. And, there is a problem that the leaching of fertilizer happens into the soil, into the water bodies, extra. And that leads to troubles like eutrophication. That leads to troubles like biomagnification of various diseases, various chemicals, and so on. So, this is why, we are going to save bio-fertilizers. But, in bio-fertilizers, India, it is not able to match the demand-supply ratio. In fact, we will self-sufficiency for any fertilizer. We have to do import dependence. We have to do import dependence. So, chemical fertilizers already have import dependence. And, we don't need to extend the importance of bio-fertilizers. Just organic farming. So, make the bio-fertilizers. That is the major mission. the same thing. So, the same goes with pesticides. So, as far as pesticides are concerned, here we are now switching to the bio-pesticides. So, that is utilizing the food chain itself to deal with the insect. But, this is not well developed. Although, integrated farming systems, we have tried to do this. But, this is not going to work. It is very good. India will start the development of this. So, the most utility of pesticides is in such a way. Like, in rice, there are no problem in pesticides. What is the reason? Waterlogged fields are made. So, pests, like mouse and all, they are not there. Waterlogged fields are made. They are not there. Pesticide fields are made. In wheat and cotton, there is a sufficient utilization on the left. And in Punjab, and in every place, there is wheat based farming, or cotton based farming. There is a lot of pesticide in there. So, that is there. This is now biopesticides to switch. And now, it is also integrated farming system. Then, we talked about organic farming. So that is also a part and parcel of sustainable management of agriculture. Agroforestry की बात करते हैं, तो वो भी sustainable management of agriculture है. एक sustainability, income के अंगल से होती है, एक biology के अंगल से होती है. तो economics के अंगल से दिखा जाए, तो जो organic farming या agroforestry है, जब तक इनकी supply chain खीक नहीं होती, तब तक बात नहीं बनती है. इन चीज़ों की branding, awareness generation, उसके बेसे से एक sufficient amount of income for the farmer can be generated, कि वो attractive option लगे, अभी वो नहीं लग़ा. पिर इसके लावा, horty culture mission बगेरा है, तो है ही है, that's also a part of sustainable agriculture. Making agriculture sustainable is not only a part in biology, it is also something we have to see from economics, it is also something that we have to see from geography, and it is also something we have to see from culture. So from many areas, we have to work upon the sustainability of agriculture. Looking at sustainability of agriculture from just one lens will not do. I hope it is clear. Hello, hello. Manny, समेजागा क्या वोल रहों? We doubt, Yannathak? No, sir. Fine, moving on. So, centrally sponsored schemes such as National Mission for Sustainable Agriculture is one of the eight missions under the National Action Plan on Climate Change. इस बाहत देर से चल रहा है, NAPCC, and aims at promoting sustainable agriculture by developing appropriate adaptation strategies and dimensions. Now, during the 12th five-year plan, तुछ तुछ थाइप्टे थाइप्र सुच्छता रहा है, बहाता है, 4% was the target. These strategies, dimensions were embedded and mainstreamed into missions, program schemes of the Department of Agriculture and Palmer Welfare through a process of restructuring and convergence. Now, NMSA, as a programmatic intervention made operational from 2014-15, aims at making agriculture more productive, sustainable, remunerative and climate resilient. ये चार चीजे हम आज अगरी कल्चर में चाहते हैं. ये हमारा mission mode है. ये नोट कर लेना मेंस के लिए. What do you want the direction of agriculture to be? productive, sustainable, remunerative and climate resilient. अभी भी आपको agriculture को लेके कुछ कुछ कुछ लिखना है. तो ये चार वर्ड वहां पे डालने हैं. ठीके. तो, by promoting location-specific integrated composite farming system, अभी क्या क्या कर सकते हैं उसके लिए? इन चार चीजेजों के लिए, what are the actual doable's at the ground level? So, next, soil and moisture conservation measures, comprehensive soil health management, efficient water management practices, mainstreaming rain-fed technologies. Now, it aims to promote sustainable agriculture through thrust in enhancing agricultural productivity, especially in rain-fed areas, focusing on integrated farming, soil health management, synergizing, resource conservation. Basically, उपर वाले point को भुमा के दुबारा लिकाए, कुछ नहीं आनी. From 2018-19, NMSA was being implemented as a submission and sub umbrella mission. So, sub umbrella mission कहने का मतलब होता है, बहुत सारी जिनों को जोड रहे हैं. Under Green Revolution Krishonati Yojana. So, ये 2018-19 में शुरू किया था. From 2022-23, various program schemes of NMSA have been subsumed under Rashtriya Krishy Vikas Yojana. ये 2012 से चलती आरे, Rashtriya Krishy Vikas Yojana. So, as an annual action-based program. मतलब हर साल, इसका एक अलग action parts आजाते हैं, कि हम ये करेंगे साल. इस चीज़ीज़ीब तादा फोकुस्ट रहेगा. Now, on skin की चीज़ों पर काम होगा. So, the centrally sponsored and central sector schemes. मतलब जहां पर 100% भी हो सकता है और central state मिल के भी कर सकते हैं. कौन कौन से? First is on farm water management. Subsumed as per drop more crop after the launch of Pradhan Mantri Krishy Sitchai Yojana 2015-16. Now, subsumed under RKVY cafeteria approach. Cafeteria approach means cafeteria क्या होता है? उसमें सब कुछ है. आप shopping भी कर सकते हो, आप खापी भी सकते हो, वेट के गुंपर भी सकते होस के नदे हो, that is cafeteria approach. Everything together. Okay. So, on farm water management इसका एक major component होता था. उसको अभी per drop more crop पे अंदर ले लिया गया. Then rainfed area development essentially जहां पर rain जादा है उस तरहां की plantation महां पर की जाए. Subsumed under RKVY cafeteria approach. Then, submission on agroforestry, national bamboo mission, soil health management, paramp ragrat, krishi vikas yujna, that is organic farming, soil and land use survey of India, national rainfed authority, mission agriculture value chain development in northeast region, MOVC. Jab Sikkim ने first organic state किया, to tab se ye mission चल रहा है. National Center of Organic Farming, central fertilizer quality control and training institute. So, there are so many things which are working in the national mission on sustainable agriculture, in one mission. Now, what's the situation with the rainfed farming systems? Now, food grain production in the country accrues from approximately 140 million hectares of net area soon. 139. So, of this, about 70 million hectares is net irrigated and remaining is rainfed. So, half of 50-50. So, half of 50-50. Rainfed agriculture is complex, diverse, risk prone, characterized by low levels of productivity and low input usage. So, if managed properly, they have the potential to contribute to a larger share in overall production of the food grain in the country. In view of this, the government of India has recorded a very high property priority to the holistic and sustainable development of rainfed areas. So, this is why we are working on this. Now, what is going on? In this context, RFS division implementing the per drop more crop component and rainfed area development component of NMSA. So, let's do two. Let's do it. Now, what will we do in actual in this? Besides, a dedicated micro-irrigation fund has been instituted by NABAD with the corpus of Rs. 5000 crore. So, micro-irrigation adopt that is sprinkler systems, drip irrigation and all that. So, it is a fund generated. Now, the coverage will be expanded and doubled to 10,000 crore rupees in coming time. Per drop more crop component is what we do in the water use efficiency of the target. Just so, remember that. Micro-irrigation fund was in 2017-18 budget. So, we will basically help people in funding to adopt micro-irrigation components. Remember that. it is not the whole detail. It is not the whole detail. It is not the whole detail. Then, rain-fed area development already. So, basically, we are trying to manage it better. How? Come to this. So, the things will be done through integrated farming system, which focuses on multiple cropping, rotational cropping, inter-cropping, mixed cropping practices with allied activities such as horticulture, livestock, fishery, and apiculture to enable farmers not only in maximizing farm returns for sustainable livelihood, but also to mitigate the impact of drought, flood, or other extreme weather events. Now, we have seen that climate change will increase with extremities in the weather. In India, it is the first year after 40 years, when a storm is experiencing North India otherwise, it would not be that. Now, we have to create all these different reliance to the extent. Before, you could only crop-based cultivation but now you need integrated farming systems. Next, National Green-fed Area Authority needs to move forward. bamboo mission move forward. We specifically North East states utilized here. Come to this one. Other initiatives. Two externally aided projects have been approved for implementing in Northeast region. First is development of bamboo value chain in Northeast. This is by Asian Development Bank. India Japan Initiative for sustainable development of the bamboo sector. This is supported by the Japanese government through JICA. That is the Japanese investment company. It is a world development bank. So, Japan also, it is a development bank. International funding. NBM with JEM that is the government e-market place launched a green gold collection. A dedicated bamboo window on government e-market place in 2021. Facilitation of marketing model of multi-faceted bamboo products. private consumers target government target target . Okay. Then export to export through director general of foreign trade for lifting ban bamboo charcoal export. Actually, bamboo charcoal is not a very healthy thing, but we are exporting it now. Okay. For mission and promotion of FTOs in the bamboo sector. So, don't bother. Submission on agroforestry. So, agroforestry aapne apne question create karta kabi kabi. UPS 7. So, what is to be done in agroforestry? Let's see. So, this was launched for the first time in 2016-17. So, to encourage tree plantation on farmland, that is ar med per aid. Anyhow, this is ongoing since the national agroforestry policy 2014. It's a part and parcel there. Now, the scheme was implemented in the states which have liberalized transit regulations for selected tree species. So, they're like that what team need to plant because exotic varieties улиVIDU, Bole, and algae ups, from the soil. So, not in all states. We are implementing in 21 states. When agroforestry, these basics are the means. It should be used to write this means. It helps in creating additional source of income for the farmers and helps in carbon sequestration. Those things we need to work out. Under the mission, multipurpose tree species with short, medium and long term returns are encouraged so that farmers may get additional income at regular intervals. These would include fruits, water, medicinal and timber species. All kinds of species are being used in agroforestry. Now, submission has broad objectives. What do we do? Clean plantation. Ensure availability of quality planting material. Popularize agroforestry. Create database and information. Provide extension and capacity building. Extension means education awareness about agroforestry. Okay. What do we do? Increase in tree cover leads to sequestration. These are the things you have learned. Now, there is no extra extra. Come to this. Funding pattern. The scheme is being implemented with funding of 60-40 between center and state. Northeast and Hilli states. How is it for 90-10? And 100% in case of UTs and national level agencies. So, there is the funding pattern. That's it. How is it going to be done physically? What is it going to be done in agroforestry? What is it going to be done in agroforestry? Just one or two things. Come to the table that they have given it. So, under the scheme right now, 1,061,238 hectares have been brought under the plantation. And that's it. So, 1,061,000 hectares. Or, like 1,061,000 hectares. Or, like 1,000,000 hectares. That much you can put. Just remember that. Which tree species are put in the area? That's not the need to be done with the tension. Okay. So, remember that sandalwood, there is a trail, there is a virgin tree. This tree is actually used in the carpenter tree. The furniture making industry. So, they are put in the high value. It's like if I take one acre of the land today. In the forest area, where there will be sufficient amount of moisture. The forest will be found under the forest. In the foot hills, where there is a land. There is a land. Because there is a certain agriculture. So, Sandigarh's Aspas is available somewhere near 10,000,000,000,000,000 per acre. So, I will leave the wood and leave it for 10 years. That I have to leave the land. I will leave the land for 10 years. After that, as long as I have to leave the land, I will leave the land for three times, I will leave the wood in 10 years. Okay. So, the land has been started. Then, the wood has been planted. Okay. So, it's good for FD to do FD. Okay. The scheme has been discontinued since April 1st, 2020, as per EFC recommendations. So, now we are not doing this agroforestry scheme. So, it is finished now. So, the agroforestry work is only done. The recommendations are like, because we have been doing this as well. So, the government has been doing this as well. So, the government has been doing this as well. So, the government has been doing this as well. So, the national mission on sustainable agriculture is basically a part of NAPCC since 2008. And what we are trying to do is create certain strategies to make Indian agriculture resilient to climate change. And all these strategies are three major components on the main components. So, these are three major components. Okay. So, the national mission on sustainable agriculture is basically a part of NAPCC since 2008. And what we are trying to do is create certain strategies to make Indian agriculture resilient to climate change. And all these are all these strategies. So, the main components have been working on the main components. Rain-fed area development, on-farm water management, and soil health management. These are the three areas on which it is working. So, the main components have been working on the main components. Okay. Now, these are all these things that are linked to the soil health card. Like the soil health card, such as the development of organic value tree in northeastern regions, and such as the sub-missions on agroforestry. So, these are all these things later on. During 2015-16, Prudhan Mantri Krishi Sachai Vyojna, another one added. Per drop more crop, that was added. Then, National Bamboo Mission was added in 2018. So, this way, slowly things have been adding up. Or, the above three objectives only. Okay. So, this paragraph is a work. Whenever you have to write a singular note, you have to write a question about climate change. If you have to write a question about climate change, you have to write a question about climate change. What are the government initiatives? The question is, discuss the initiatives taken by government of India, or simply initiatives taken in India to ensure climate resilient agriculture, and protect farmers income. farmers income. I am not saying dumb, but I am not saying that. The government has already been told about climate change. That is, that is, the government has already been told about climate change. So, the government has already been told about climate change. Ensure climate resilient agriculture and protect farmers income. I am not saying double farmers income, I am saying protect farmers income. Also, we have to step ahead on our new regent topic, a job magically wetter cette fois aussi. So, this is why they need to keep their income conservation. For rural development, farmer income must be preserved. After that, the climate agriculture, which you have studied in NMS, we will talk about this. Okay. So, 250 words, 15 marks, I will accept. Coming forward. What are we trying to do in the future area? So, implementation strategies are designed with a time frame of up to 2030. The 11 key priority areas have been identified for programmatic intervention, which can minimize the impact of climate change and reduce risk. What are these areas? So, these priority areas have been analyzed in the context of four functional areas. In 2011, we are going to be looking at R&D, technology adoption and upscaling, infrastructure and capacity. These four basic areas have been done in the work. Functional areas. What are 11 dimensions? So, these are all your means. Improving water productivity, pest surveillance, forewarning and management, soil health and nutrient management, energy management and farm mechanization, agri waste management, insurance and risk management, strengthening the value chain, integrated farming system, agroforestry, including bamboo, organic farming, climate-ready crop varieties and resilient practices, enhancing resilience in livestock and fisheries. Okay. So, if you look at the entire figure, agricultural sustainability, what should we do? Soil quality, water, crop yield, environment and livestock. These are five dimensions. Mitigation and adaptation are both. Mitigation means we need to be ready for the future. Adaptation means what has happened, and you think we are already changing our aspects and each value. and ESPta crop yield and Coming forward to Soil and Land Use Survey of India. Now, this is something important. We have to take it all. What is the status of Soil and Land Database? Come to this. Soil and Land Use Survey of India. You can refer it by putting data. Whenever you have farmers, farm size, catchment area, how many crop size, all that. So for priority categorization, our soil and land use characteristics, there is a catchment area of different river basins in the country. Similarly, the institute has also accomplished detailed Soil Survey Database generation of 23 million hectares of area in priority sub-micro-watersheds, rain-fed aspirational districts. So we will not do everything. We will have time. But we will have time. We will have time. But we will have time to work. It will take time. Because now we have all activities. And we have all satellites space. So database is being made ready so that we know what kind of moisture level, what kind of soil quality is available, where and what kind of agriculture can be done then. Am I properly audible, visible? Is anybody having any kind of doubts? No, sir. You are properly audible and visible. Okay. We have all data. We have all data. It's a... It's a... It's just that... Area in hectares in agricultural land and status means how much they have done their survey. They have to complete their survey. They are telling us. So we don't need to. Okay. Soil map. Allag-allag. Patipo district of UP, etc. Soil maps are making. Soil maps are making. So just think that how we are studying the soils in India. Not required for you. Soil health card. Soil health card. Soil health card. There are some provisions. They are so ready. So organic carbon content. pH levels. Nitrogen. Soil salinity. Electrolite content. Phosphorus. Potassium. Oron. Sulfur. Mangerines. Just that one database they are sharing. No need for you to deal with this. Just remember. Soil health card. Fertilizer management. Add to it. Okay. And subsidy uses. Central fertilizer quality control and training institute Fridabad institutional workout in in sub subsidies moving on National Center for Organic and Natural Farming so basically organic farming what we are trying to work out with this is now established at Ghaziabad and government is implementing a participatory guarantee system in India if you are doing organic farming then we will assure you so as a quality assurance initiative for certification of organic produce that is locally relevant and emphasizing the participation of stakeholders including producers, farmers and consumers and operate outside the frame of third party certification now in the operation of PGS India stakeholders are involved in decision making and essential decisions about the operation of PGS India certification itself by assessing, inspecting, verifying production practices of each other and collectively declare the produce as organic ninety qualific to embrace participatory approach, a shared vision, transparency and trust. Participation is an essential dynamic part of PGS. So, we will help them grow and they will deliver. It's like this. So, we have one group of our own in this case. Let me show you that in the practical example of PGS that we have been able to create in the last four or five years and we have created a farmhouse near Himshikha, that's near to Pinjore. So, these are all things developed in that group, whatever is organically produced. So, there is a bunch of about 250 families, 300 families in Chandigarh itself and they buy the produce. Let me show you. So, this is belonging to a friend of mine. His name is Pomi. There are two brothers. Both of them are architects. Okay. So, let me show you how it really works. So, this is a place where the family is organically produced, like onion, ajwain, whatever it is there. Vegetables, which are produced in the farm, so all of them will be there for the sale. The group will list in the list. Everyone will have their own order. And right now, this is a... I look at the participants. So, 230 families are there. So, this is like a PGS. Organically certified, but within the society. So, they will help each other out and people will produce, the other people will buy. So, trust factor, participative factor that's more important. Okay. Then, the learning process is usually hands-on and involves field days or workshops. The idea of participation embodies the principle of collective responsibility for ensuring the organic integrity of the PGS. So, we started trust Cupid created aspect here. Okay. So, now, PGS India program also provides uninterrupted chain of custody, starting from producer groups, till the products are processed and finally packed into retail packs. To integrate traditionally organic areas into mainstream organic and harvest, the benefit of traditional organic practices for safe and healthy certified organic food for consumers. PGS India program also provides for a mechanism to certify large contiguous area, involving village councils, gram panchayats by adopting village-wise conformity assessment on the annual basis. So, every year, they will check that they will be organic farming in this village and the amount of produce from here will be organic certified. It will be non-GMO and then they will get more prices. In the market, Now, if you talk about onion, you will sell for like 25-30 rupees a kilo. But organically produced will cost you around 40 rupees a kilo. But then it's a choice. Because if you work out pesticide, you will see that if you put in alkaline pH water, you will put in the water, you will put in the water, put in the water. You will put in all pesticides, then you will put in all pesticides. It will create an oily kind of emulsion. The reason for that is the high amount of pesticides used there. So, we don't want to consume that. And major initiatives, revisions in PGS India certification, Abhismi Kya Latest Chilred. So, addition of new scopes of individual farmer registration, large area certification, including registration of processors and hand lips. So, they can be getting the PGS India certification. Then they can sell online anywhere as organic. Otherwise, not. Then overview of proposed natural farming certification system. So, what is this? So, Director NCO, NF Ghazi Awad, acted as a member secretary for 12 various committees. And the committee has proposed natural farming recommendation system and has submitted support to the Department of Agriculture and Farmer Welfare. So, let's see. All the natural farming already traditionally is happening. Like tribals, they can add to NFRS. They can also give organic produce, organic produce, and they can also give good prices. They can also give export. That's that. National skill programs. So, they're just training how to do organic farming better. So, it is. NCO NF Ghazi Awad has taken initiatives for aligning the targeted human resource development program, such as a 30-day certificate course for organic farming promoter manager of 240 hours duration, as per Skill India norms, with the objective to create a trained workforce by targeting unemployed national youth, which can handle the different scopes of Indian organic industry, including production quality, including production quality, certification, and marketing. So, now we're preparing people to do so that they are certified organic managers, organic produce managers. So, that's where we are working on right now. And training programs, just leave me see. Go forward. So, government is committed to promote organic farming. We emphasize on sustainable productivity, food security, and soil health. Now, government has prepared a roadmap for this. So, this roadmap is launched. It is basically a centrally sponsored scheme. Okay. Centrally sponsored program. The ratio is 100% for UTs. 90% to 10% for Northeast. And 60% to 40% for all the other states. Now, Paramparagar Krishi Vikas Yujana is implemented in a cluster mode with minimum 20 hectare size. And the states have been asked to implement the cluster size of 1000 hectare in plain area and 500 hectares in hill area. Basically, cluster size can be done by the basis of management. Policy support is done by the policy. To facilitate marketing of organic produce, all farmers are eligible, but within a group, farmer can avail benefit of maximum of 2 hectares. And the limit of assistance is rupees 50,000 per hectare. Out of its 62%, that is about 31,000, is given as incentives to a farmer for organic conversion, organic inputs, on-farm inputs, production infrastructure, etc. And this is to be given directly as direct benefit transfer for about 3 years. This is a very good scheme. If you suppose, in any place, 2 hectares maximum size means that small farmers should benefit. That is one. After 10 hectares, in 2 hectares, you can do organic farming. In every hectare, you can give you a hectare of 31,000 per hectare. So, they can give you as it is. This is on your income support level. If you don't get competitive pricing in the market, you don't get competitive pricing, and you don't have money, so you can use it directly. So, you can use it directly. Moreover, if you have organic inputs, like biopesticides, it's more cost than it. So, there too. And if you want to add production infrastructure, it will help. Besides, there is also an assistance. There is also an add-on assistance. So, that can be given. But, this is good enough, that on this basis, you can promote organic farming. So, just remember this much. This is very important. Now, there are objectives. Organic farming can adopt as much as possible. Organic inputs should be. Sustainability should be. Environment protection should be. So, basic words should be identified. What are the objectives of organic farming? Promote natural resource-based, integrated and climate resilient, sustainable farming systems. One. Second, reduce the cost of agriculture. Now, it is a zero budget natural farming. This is also a practice. Related to organic farming only. Then, sustainability produce chemical-free, nutritious food for human consumption. Protect the environment from hazardous, inorganic chemicals. To protect the environment, inorganic chemicals. As I note down, to empower farmers through their own institutional development, the farmers will be capable. So, they will work in the entire value chain. In terms of capacity to manage production, processing, value addition, certification management, everything is necessary to learn farmers. To make farmers or entrepreneurs, to make farmers a simple word, agripreneurs. So, that is what we are using now. Through direct market linkage with local and national markets. So, that's it. Now, what is the progress of this? What is the progress of this? How is the progress of this? The whole scheme? So, we have a little bit of it. Sometimes we ask, how are the schemes of this? How are they working? So, that is given right here. Otherwise, it is very difficult for us to write anything if we don't have these facts. So, here, total fund released under PMKY, KVY is about 1750 crore rupees. Just remember that in the last seven years period. And during this particular year, you should remember one figure. the other thing. So, somewhere near 93 crore or 100 crore rupees, you can say. Then, how many clusters? Right now, 5670 new clusters covering about 1,13,400 hectares. So, that have been utilized for organic farming. It must be a few facts. A dedicated online web portal, jayvikkheti.in, has been created to encourage organic products. Sale of organic products, directly by farmers to consumer farming, by directly connecting to the consumers. So, jayvikkheti.in, it's like an e-commerce platform for organic produce. Where you can go to the area, the farmers, go and log in, register and send your own land. Okay. Okay. So, brand name, this is very important for prelims, not for means. Means, you can use it as an extra input, whenever you come to the organic farming. We can use it as an extra input, we can promote organic farming. So, we can use it as an information. So, this is both ways information. So, Madhya Pradesh, made in Mandala, that is the brand name. Utrakhand, we have created organic Utrakhand, Tamil Nadu, so that is Tamil Nadu organic product. Maharashtra is saying, Sahi organic, Nasik organic, Blood Chiroliya organic farming. Then, Jharkhand, Jayvik Jharkhand, from the land of Jharkhand. Chhathisgarh, it is Aadhim brand, or Bhumigadi FPO, or Bastar Naturals, Punjab, five rivers. Navi, we have been doing this. Trippura, Trippurishwari Fresh. So, various brand names have been cultivated now, in organic farming, with the help of government. Okay. Inke business types, bina raha hai, Adani Group ke saath. Adani Group is the major buyer now. If you look at more stores and so on, So, unke thoofer, unka retail segment bhi hai. Now, government has initiated large area, certification programs since 2020, 2021. So, jahaan peh traditional farming, waisae ho rhi thi. Desi ki hills mein, islands mein, tribal areas mein, desert areas mein. And there is no past history of GMO, or agrochemical usage. To, wahaan peh large area certification kar raha hai. Taan ki, organic ke naam peh, at least farmer income to ensure ki a raha ta ke. So, that's the main thing here. Then move on. I will say, I will say, I will say, I will say, I will say, I will say, I will say, I will say, I will say, I will say, I will say, green revolution peh, chemical farming ke uper. Okay. Abhi sara, what is the 21st century ke indere, organic farming ke uper. Ye push factors kahaan se arh hain sara hai. What do you think? Is the push factor for this kind of transition? Why suddenly a shift? Ek toho definitely a shift ka karan hai cancer. Yeh bhajna shuru ho gaya. Thir jho non communicable diseases hain, Yeh bhajna shuru ho gaya. Leise ki diabetes, high blood pressure, et cetera, et cetera. That started increasing with the high yield variety of crops that were put in the planted during the green revolution. Because they changed the protein structure, the carbohydrate structure of the plants, just for the sake of getting a higher yield. So that is something that your body is not used to. And that leads to high sugar levels. And then that leads to high blood pressure. And that leads to many other problems. Yes. So cancer, sto, ki sari problems, but in this way, abh thoda, hoda organic, he traf fham ne jana shuru ho gaya. Thir jhe. Lekin yaha pae, is, is ke liye bhi ki ha zurod thi. Is ka concern do tha. Twin fold. Nineteen forty five me, job world war two khatm ho ra hai. Toh boho saray explosive bach gaya. World war two ka. Woj jo explosive bach gaya. Ab wo explosive ko. Use toh karna ta. Because us ti self life, usko sambhal na muskail hai. World war two finished abruptly. Now all these companies, there are two major worldwide investment firms, Blackrock and Vanguard, and they have their sister concerns worldwide. Who invests me kata hai. So what they suggested at this point is, that there is a problem of food security. Let's now convert all this explosive into fertilizer. Fertilizer itself is explosive. By the way, you should know. Take care. Take care. And then utilize this for ensuring food security. That's when the idea of adding fertilizer to your soil started. Then it was added to the ground. Traditionally, it was not anything. This is how the war industry entered the agriculture. Take care. Once that happened, then a lot of money came in because of this fertilizers and everything. Because war industry is a $13 trillion industry. And that industry, when it enters anywhere, it will create war. So definitely, now there is war in agriculture. However, the victims of this war in this case are silently. Silently the people who are maybe at least getting food security, but at the same point of time, generally through government support. So yeh saari cheezhe chal rai hai. Ab iske chakr mein abhi organic hi torf chale ga hai. Because that was all utilized. Jitna tha. Abhye war industry is ko zahada promoting kare hai. Ab fertilizer ki kami hai impact. Ab fertilizer manufacturing na to India in a utna ho raha na world over hi utna ho raha. Oil, fossil fuel, in sub cheezo ke basis pe, nafta gas is one of the major component. Natural gas is one of the major component for fertilizer manufacturing, which is being used today. Okay? Toh woh bhi ab har jay ka hi kami hai. Toh is wajay se organic, GMO, abh is taraf jana shudhu ho gai. Back to the original form. Back to the pre-1940s or even pre-industrial form of agriculture. So that's the concern here. Okay? Isse baut saare troubles shudhu ho hai. Iske sath related baut saare jeez hai. Jab over production of food shudhu ho ha na, jyase amerika ke andar, haljaga ke andar. So free meals dne shudhu kye ga hai. One dollar meal. So log abhi's abhi ziti ki dhav jane shudhu ho gai. Unnecessarily they are eating like this. Because the food is becoming so cheap there. Abh lekin jayase jayase yee vidro ho ho raha hai. You are looking at the inflation trends also. Especially food inflation. Okay. Vere vere time yee dubara aayega ki log apni apni kheti shudhu kare daen ga. KKK akad zameen leke. At least apni sabjiya apne fal woh gana shudhu kare daen ga. That will come. Because things will not be very manageable 10 years down the line. Right now it is still manageable because lot of people in India are in agriculture. But 10 years down the line their children will not be in agriculture. Most of them. So they will be trying to move out of agriculture because it is not remunerative enough. And costing kisi chiz ki ek particular market clearing value ke uper dependent hukke. You understand the concept of market clearing value? Market clearing value is ki kisi particular chiz ke liye log kitne paise dene ke liye tayar. Can you imagine tomatoes at 280 rupees per kg? Can you go ahead? Today that is the price of tomatoes in Chandigat. 280 rupees per kg. If you want to buy that's the price. Okay. So you were listening to 100 years old. Now the price is the price of today. Because of the flood situation and all. Maybe in 3-4 days it will correct. Somebody saying buy a puree. No need. Just don't eat tomatoes for 2000 days. It's actually good for your system. In monsoons you are not supposed to consume tomatoes too much. They are not healthy for your system at this point of time. Except for lemon. That's the only thing that you can use. Use lemon. Okay. Then. Mission organic value chain development for northeastern region. No need. Let's go ahead and go ahead. We will have civil success in Northeastern region. We will have some questions in the northeastern region. We will not ask you about the tension in UPSC. Then national mission on natural farming. Come to this one. So, Government of India has already initiated the natural farming through. Bharatiya Paramparagat Krishi Paddhati. A sub scheme of Paramparagat Krishi Vikas Yojana. Since 2020, 2021. To promote traditional indigenous agro ecological farming. Including zero budget natural farming. Which has gained a huge importance across the country. So, abhi kitna or hai? 4.09 lakh hectares has already been covered in eight states under. Bharatiya Parakristi. Okay. Basically the old way of filtration. Okay. Now what is to be done? It is being upscaled in the mission mode. As a separate national mission on natural farming. To cover 7.5 lakh hectares. By developing 15,000 clusters. Abhi, you have only 4. We have double. Now the scheme is already being appraised by the EFC on 4th October 2022. And is being submitted for cabinet approval. So, this is how it will be approved. We will probably implement it from the next budget session. But for now it is so much. Objectives are already being appraised by the EFC on 4th October 2022. And is being submitted for cabinet approval. So, this will be approved by the next budget session. We will probably implement it. But for now it is so much. What are the objectives? The standard objectives you have. You have 4 things. Every time, every scheme is different. We will implement it. But for now it is so much. What are the objectives? What are the objectives? The standard objectives you have. The 4 things. Every scheme, every scheme, the objectives are not to be done. Okay. The general farming for the general farming. The general farming for the general farming. The soil health card 2015. We will be able to move forward. The government, the kishitaan, the society, which we know only the basics. We will be able to know the basics. The 3 installments. Don't bother anything beyond that. The income support scheme. The investment support scheme. The investment support scheme. The investment scheme. The investment scheme. So, we don't need to know. We don't need to know. But the basic objective. The basic objective. So, you list it. It is an input items. The support scheme. Because the income support scheme. The value problem, the two interest and investment% some of that. So, you need to seen that 해요 at the point, hop the concept. I hope I am clear. Next is National Crop Insurance Program. So agricultural insurance. So keeping in view the risk involved in agriculture, there is a need for insurance, obviously. And therefore, Ministry of Agriculture and Farmer Welfare introduced crop insurance scheme in 1985. Now we have talked about this. What do we have said today? Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bhima Yojana and restructured weather-based crop insurance scheme. Do it. We have insurance. Considering the farmers demand, the scheme has been revamped in February 2020. Under this, participation is made voluntary for all farmers, whereas it is compulsory for loony farmers. So that is the situation. The total funds released by the government of India under this, don't bother, how much fund released. Now what is Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bhima Yojana? It has revamped it. It has revamped in the center state contribution. It has changed the system. The rest of the system is the same. So it was started in Kharif 2016. It is being implemented in 18 general insurance, five government-level companies. What will it be doing here? So a uniform maximum premium of only 2% of the sum insured is paid by the farmer for Kharif crops, 1.5% for Rabi crops, and 5% for commercial and horticultural crops. Farmer ko itnei dena baaki government pei. The premium rates paid by farmer are very low, and the balance actuarial premium is being born by the government to be shared equally by state and central governments. Equally means 50-50. Northeast may 90 to 10 hai, to provide full insurance amount to farmers against crop loss and on the account of natural calamities. Now what is happening here? Abhi isko 25-20 kar gaya gaya. Here it is. The central subsidy for premium is capped up to 30% for unirrigated areas. So this is the revamped scheme. Change kardaya. And 25% for irrigated areas. District with irrigated area of more than 50% will be considered as irrigated district. So sum insured central government ki liability khi, go karm kar gaya. Alag-alag states isko apne sabstay basically implement kare gaya. State government ki liability 70 hai 75%. Then move on. Punjab me to jasema isko implement bhi ni kar raya ho dhang se. All this is not required. Review of operational guidelines of the scheme and issued of revised guidelines. Abhi scheme kaise chal gaya. The scheme implementation is reviewed and monitored constantly through weekly video conferences, one-to-one meetings with these stakeholders on regular basis and national level monitoring committee. So uske basis fe iski review chal te ki kaise ground level pe karm kar raya. Based on this review, we have been saying that jo claim settlement ratio hai, wo iska achha hai. So do the scheme and revised operational guidelines were made after the detailed discussion of various stakeholders, farmer states, insurance companies and financial institutions, et cetera. Some points issues like voluntary coverage of non-loaning farmers, addressing challenges of delay in release of state premium subsidy and crop cutting data and leveraging technology for smooth implementation, et cetera, were identified as critical issues in implementation of the scheme during the first eight seasons. So abhi tak jo implant kiya gaya, ush mein ye kuch medjet dikhte rakhi. State governments apna paisa release nai karte, technology dik se yujh ne ho rhi aur settlement mein dherhi hoti hai. Non-loaning farmer abhi bhi voluntary hai, kui karai na karai. It's like this. Loaning ke liye toho compulsory hai. Thereafter, after making detailed discussion, this has been revamped with following changes to make the scheme more beneficial for the farmers with effect from Kharif 2020. Now, to address the demand of farmers, the scheme has been made voluntary for all farmers. So, pehle siraf loani farmers ke liye mandatory tha, abhi it is voluntary for all farmers. No change in farmers share of premium. Abhi ee chee wein. Then, the premium subsidy sharing between center and northeastern states has been changed from 50-50 to 90-10. So, northeastern states ke liye achha ho gai. For remaining states, the subsidy sharing pattern will continue to 50-50. Ojo 70-30 wala tha, usko is taraha se polaga. Leakin, to address the issue of high premium breeds for few crops, area due to adverse selection, the requisite central premium subsidy 90-10 for northeastern and 50-50 for remaining states will be provided for areas crops having gross premium rate of up to 25% for irrigated and up to 30% for unirrigated crops. So, kuch crops ke liye unhau ne ye wala system abhi adapt ke hai. Saro ke liye nini. States have to decide on the high risk crops and areas. And ye kuanse crops hoonge, state governments ko decide karke batayin. If you unka contribution batari hai, 70% odari hai. They can remove these crops from notification or notify these crops or areas and bear the entire subsidy over and above 25% for irrigated and 30% for non-irrigated. Central government will share only up to 25-30% of applicable premiums as the case may be. Besides, alternate risk mitigation measures will be explored for the high risk areas or crops. Just like kuch areas are jahan peh droughts, kuch areas are jahan peh flooding regular level peh ho rhee hai. Area based bhi risk assessment kiya jayega. Toh, agar center or state ke and the variants hai ghi toh state has to bear the burden. States aapne level peh kuch karne rethi. Isko leke is liye ihe walae sare kama karne bade. Insurance companies will now be selected by the states for three years in a go instead of one year thereby increasing their commitment and accountability to the farmers. Pada chala insurance toh kar diya aapne leken jab tak paise dene ki bari aapne ka ha ha ha ha ha ha ha maara toh mandate kata ho ga gai. Chik hai. Option has been given to states to choose from the notional value of average yield or scale of finance as some insured in the interest of farming community. In the view of demand of many states option have been given to state to choose additional risk covers besides shortfall in yield depending upon the local weather challenges and requirements of the farmers. So, agar kuch additional coverage dena chaathe ho jyase market mein price realization toh woh bhi jod saktte ho abhi toh sarf jyase jyase yield hai ki pichle saal ho ke kaabale yield kam huhi toh risk cover ho ga. Then, insurance companies to pay 12% interest to the farmers for delaying the claim payment beyond prescribed time line. He bhaut achha hai. Okay. Then, a two-step process of crop yield estimation using weather and satellite indicators etc. is adopted which helps in early assessment of loss. Jyase abhi karnao ga. Anjabne. Use of smart sampling technique through satellite data for crop cutting experiments by some states has shown increased efficiency in implementation. This will now be universalized. So, small sampling techniques laga lenge. Delay by some states in submission of crop yield data will now be suitably addressed through use of technology solutions. Agar states data nahi submit karare toh satellites se data lelaya daega. Provision has been made for earmarked administrative experience at 3% of the strengthening infrastructure and technology for better delivery of the scheme. So, scheme to chalegi aur ye wale basis changes ke uper chalegi. Pradhan mantri Fasal Bima Yojana ka ek apko review based question asakta hai. Review it's working. So, uske anddari ye sari cheeze chahi hoang. So, review the working of Pradhan mantri Fasal Bima Yojana in Indian agriculture. What according to you should be improved in agricultural insurance? technology-based solutions, better support, you know? So, wu sari cheeze he. Next, restructured weather-based crop insurance scheme, don't bother. Azadi ka Amrit Mahajasav campaign, easy. So, with a view to contribute to commemorate 75 years of India's independence under Azadi Kamberth Mahajasav at India at 75 campaign, department has planned crop insurance week or Fasal Bima Saptah during Kharif and Rabi enrollment season. Basically, farmers awareness invasion campaign laga and enroll kia zara is it moving on agricultural credit or agricultural finance. So, this report is as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as that way 50% questions so don't skip this report it's very important after paper kia ab agricultural credit finance ke an basic si baat kia ki institutional finance ko b�hanay ki ko koshish kata hai aur money lenders say non institutional credit se buch nye ki koosh kata institutional finance mein sabse zyada role kisih nye play kiya hai to scheduled commercial banks nye kiya hai as you know from your basic knowledge aur lekin abhi is me rural credit ke liye jis cooperative societies hain primary agriculture credit society hai ye sari hum build karne ki gošish kata self help groups build karne kashash kata so they are being created now this institutional credit in farming is ko dene ke alag alag kri kata hai ke interest subvention scheme hai is ko work out ke adara abhi dhe dhe small scale industry ko bhi agriculture ke net me rakh ke kati village industries commission ke an dhe joh hai ya joh agricultural products me kama kari hai lones kari hai livestock not just crops to 2020 onwards humara joh orientation hai it has shifted from just crop to livestock fishery and other light activities also uska karen in India make jub 2017 ka economic survey a thar so they have this orientation that 2011 12 se le ke 2016 17 ki study ki jay to juk crop based income hai this has reduced from 65% to 60% do the 11 12 65% agriculture crop based income a tih a 60% hai or joh livestock forestry or fisheries ye joh treen sectors hai in me say 40 35% income a pahle abhi 2017 ke in dher 40% income a 60 40 ka is orientation a raha to ke nne ka matlab joh agricultural income hai woh abhi sufficiently rely kar sakta hai livestock forestry or fishery ke ope is liye joh agricultural credit bhi hai us ko bhi crop se diversify karke livestock forestry or fishery ki taraf nilik kera hai hai hai required na investment to agriculture ke hundari ho just like this the direction of agricultural income in terms of its compartments is also now determining the direction of agricultural credit ye line nik nik nik nik repeat kari nik the direction and content of agricultural income direction and content of agricultural income is now transitioning is now transitioning since 2011 12 since 2011 12 from crop based income from crop based income to livestock forestry and fisheries to livestock forestry and fisheries therefore a similar trend is being adopted in agricultural credit similar trend is being adopted in agricultural credit keeping with the vision in keeping with the vision of integrated farming in keeping with the vision of integrated farming farmer diversification of farmers income and doubling farmer income diversification of farmers income and doubling farming farmers ok so what is being done first is the policy initiatives who are increasing the flow of credit. So, let's see. First is agricultural credit target and achievement. So, our 2022-2022 agricultural credit target is about 18,000,000 crore. That is one. Now, how will it be? First is interest subvention scheme. It's been in 2006-07. And the second is a farm credit card. So, these two short-term crop loans at a concessional interest rate provide. How much interest rate is in a nutshell? That is 4%. So, MISS is available to farmers with loans up to Rs. 3,00,000 with an interest rate of 7% per annum. So, there is 3% interest subvention for prompt and timely repayment of loans. 7% is only low in your own. And who will see who will see? Animal husbandry, crop husbandry and dairy and fisheries. In all sectors available. So, the same gets reduced to 4% per annum. This is the effective rate of interest. What is the benefit of this? Your investments will be improved. If you have a return on investment, the return on investment will be better. Okay. Now, interest subvention and prompt repayment incentives on restructured crop loans of farmers affected by severe natural calamities for a maximum period of 5 years on the basis of the report of interim ministerial central scheme for grant of NDRF assistance and subcommittee on national executive committees also available. If you have a return on investment, if you have a return on investment, then you will have a return on investment. The short term loan was to be 5 years to extend. This means that this is all the same. That is the same. Then, you will leave all the same. Come to Kisan credit card. So, introduced in 1998 to meet short term and long term cultivation requirements, post-harvest expenses and consumption requirements. It means that you will use a normal credit card as well as not for agriculture. It is implemented by commercial banks, cooperative banks and regional rural banks under the overall guidance of Department of Financial Services. So, RBI has issued a master supplier for the implementation of ACC scheme and with the instructions from time to time. So, there is a collateral free agricultural loan limit has been raised. From rupees 1 lakh to 1.6 lakh, standardized application of KCC has been designed for easy understanding of the farmers and a time limit of 14 days from the receipt of farmers application has been fixed to provide KCC to all eligible farmers. So, digital KCC is available for the first time. If you have a physical card, you will have time to pay. Now, what all is done? To bring more farmers into this. So, KCC farmers, they can get loan at cheaper rate through MISS. So, those who have a physical card, they can get the interest subvention scheme of the loan. 3 lakh rupees to the credit card. The credit card limit is 1.6 lakh. In MISS, it is 3 lakh. So, that is there. Agriculture credit. Now comes to agriculture marketing. This was a very active area in the last two years. Now, the government of India has been playing a pivotal role in developing agricultural market systems in the country. Agriculture marketing division of Department of Agriculture and Farmer Welfare is interested to look after a gamut of issues relating to agriculture marketing, starting from conceptualization and formulation of farmer-oriented policies and programs for effective monitoring their offer. So, anyhow, what have you done? So, agriculture sector needs structured and functional markets, preferably in the vicinity of the farmers, to drive growth, employment, remunerative prices and economic prosperity in rural areas of the country. So, markets how should it be? Structured, functional, near. Three things we should have in the market. Enabling mechanisms are also required to be put in place for the procurement of agricultural commodities directly from the farmers' field and to establish effective linkage between the farm production, retail chain and food processing industries. In the three things we should have linked in the market. Then, the farmer will be able to remove the restrictive and monopolistic practices of the present marketing system, reduce the intermediaries in the supply chain and reduce wastages by way of promoting integrated supply and value chain, benefit farmers through access to global markets, reforms in the agricultural markets have to be perceived as an ongoing process. It is not that it will be reformed in one day or a law or a ruling. So, our target is reformed. In which direction we should reform in the agriculture market? The agriculture sector needs competitive, well-functioning market for farmers to sell their produce. There is a need to enhance private sector investment in development of post-harvest marketing infrastructure for which various schemes are being implemented by government of India. So, our target is the first question. The first question is about agricultural marketing. First is, what is agricultural marketing? Okay. How do the recent initiatives taken by the government and help in agri-market reforms and doubling farmers' income? If you have to write down the bottom, you will write critically examined. If you have to make more difficult decisions, then you will write critically examined if you have more difficult decisions. If you have to make more difficult decisions, then you will make more difficult decisions. The first question is about the Dice Award. So, what is all being done? Let's see. First is, Integrated Scheme for Agricultural Marketing and Central Sector Scheme for the Formation and Promotion of New 10,000 Farmer Producer Organization, which was in the budget. It is not that the agriculture state subject. So, the central government has some limitations with respect to agri-marketing and everything kind of reforms. What is the next thing? Agri-marketing reforms. So, there is Agri-marketing Infrastructure, National Agri-Market, that is ENAM, then Marketing Research and Information Network, then there is strengthening of Agmark, Agmark Net Tech, basically that is Agriculture Marketing Net, grading facilities, and CCS, National Institute of Agriculture Marketing. So, that's for training facilities. Basically, this is the first time we have the information gathering network, that was Agmark Net. Today we have the website. Agmark Net, all the information comes in the Agri-marketing market. Now, we have integrated with ENAM, then we will go on to this information basis. What are they doing here? What are they doing here? The name of the scheme is the same. There is nothing else in this particular. Just move on. Now, see. The central sector scheme for formation of farmer producer organization of new 10,000 FTO scheme is implemented through various implementation agencies, IAs, presently. So, we are trying to produce clusters of small farmer Agri-business consortium, National Cooperative Development Corporation, NABARD, NAFID, NIRAMAC, that is Northeast Region Agriculture Marketing Corporation Limited, TN, SFAC, Tamil Nadu, Small Farmer Agri-business consortium. Similarly, Haryana, SFAC, then Karnataka, Rural Value Chain Development is also also. So, so many institutions are coming together, just to be able to support these 10,000 FTOs that we are trying to create. What is the basic concept of FTO? We want to create a direct linkage between farmers and consumers. We want to create a disintermediation. We want to create intermediaries. So, the profit is directly to farmers. This is why there are different things. Now, farmers are not only for this, so that farmers are not only for this, so that farmers are made by the producer organizations. They also make consumers to connect with them. So, they are able to help each other deal with the things. So, this is the way we are trying to promote. Even PGSI, where you can do organic certification, that is also part and parcel of the farmer income. The recommendations that came from the Ashok Dalva Committee for doubling farmer income, from all over the years, and we are working in the same business in 2018. Okay. Now, Integrated Scheme for Agricultural Marketing. So, what they are trying to do. What they could not bring through an Act, they are trying to bring it through a scheme. So, first is Agri-Marketing Infrastructure. What it includes is storage infrastructure. Basically. So, what do we do? Let's see. The erstwhile two schemes of Grameen, Bhandaran, Yojana implemented since 2001, and Scheme for Strengthening and Development of Agri-Marketing Infrastructure, Grading and Standardization implemented since 2004, have been subsumed to what is now known as Agri-Marketing Infrastructure, with effect from 2014. So, that is Agri-Marketing Infrastructure. So, the first scheme was a change. Now, what is the work out? What is the work out? Let's go here. So, with the recommendations of 15th Finance Commission coming into effect, following objectives, operational guidelines are going on this scheme. Now, we have to go on these operational guidelines. In 2001, So, what has it done? Develop Marketing Infrastructure to effectively handle and manage marketable surplus of agriculture, and allied produce in all sectors. Which also are. Livestock, poultry, fishery, bamboo, and so on. Promote innovative and latest technologies in post-harvest and agriculture marketing infrastructure. Develop alternative and competitive marketing channels. Incentivizing private and cooperative sectors to make investments thereof. Private sector. Benefit the farmers individually and collectively through FPO's. Promote creation of scientific storage capacity. Incentivized development and upgrading of grameen hearts. Inko Gram or Grameen agricultural markets. We are talking about Enam. And we have to integrate them with Enam. So, that the farmers will leave their farmers and then they will be in the future. Provide infrastructure facilities for grading, standardization, quality certification of agriculture and allied produce. Promote integrated value chain through minimal processing value addition to make produce more marketable. Including grading, waxing, ripening, packaging, labeling, etc. Undertake publicity and awareness campaigns. So, farmers can work like agripreneurs. So, this is it. To capture development. Now it can be wrapped in It's so common good regulation. It's just such a whole thing. What are the types of products you need to do to live in terms of our customization? I do not want to really learn and do that. So, that means the mong Yes, And we will come back together. My yum Yes and absolutely deatamente says Here we are going to end this. the company To getTer簡 Because of N rises doing well Electronic National Agriculture Market. So NAM is a Pan-India Electronic Trading Portal. What development is that? This is a direct question. Which seeks to network the existing physical APMC's through a virtual platform to create a unified national agriculture market for agriculture commodities. It is a virtual market, but it has a physical market called Mundi at the back end. So online trading is already, but there is a mandi in their own basis. It provides a single window service for all APMC's related information and services. What are the commodity arrivals, quality and prices, buy and sell offers, provision to respond to trade offers and electronic payment settlement directly into farmer's account among other services. So these are all things in this country. Now, let's do that and then come back to that. Under the scheme, robust common e-market platform is there. So right now, 1000 APMC's have been made in wholesale markets already. So they have been already integrated in 18 states and 3 UTs by May 2020. Yep. So just give me a moment. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Now, Department of Agriculture and Farmer Welfare granted an on-time, one-time fixed cost to the ceiling of rupee 75 lakh per Monday for related equipment, infrastructure and so on. So basically, for each mandi to join, they said 75,000,000 rupees in E-NAM. So the mandi development board will give them 75,000,000 rupees in E-NAM. So we can build an incentive and infrastructure. So we'll do what? What are the marketing reforms mandatory for joining E-NAM? First is provision of e-auction, e-trading as a mode of price discovery. Single point levy of market fee across the state. And single trading license to be valid across the state. A trader to her mandi may a different license to get a different license. So it's not like that. It's going to be a license in all states. These three things are mandatory if you have to join E-NAM. The objective is that the national-wide one agriculture market will give you a farmer to give you more income. What will the benefit be? It will be different from mandi to go to the mandi. It will be different from the mandi. Online will have all the value orientation. That's it. Now key features. So right now, E-NAM website and mobile app has been created. It's functional in 12 languages. There is a mobile application also developed. It's a website. It's an application. So you can just go to the Play Store and download E-NAM. Okay. And it will locate the mandis 100 km radius. Where you can go to your store. You can go to the gate entry. The fee is not given to mandi. So you can advance payment on your business. Sampling and saying facility assessing authorities Just use corporation All ways is paid Of all the details So you canデile facilitated, so a farmer can become a farmer agri-premier and become a farmer. We need to do everything on our level. We need to do a portal from the government. Now, the one thing was that if the farmer didn't do it alone, now, they can do it. So, farmer producer organizations can directly sell their produce from collection centers by uploading produce details with picture quality parameters online without the need to physically bring the produce to mundus. So, this is good for them. They have deemed to be mandi status given. Now, suppose, it's a Punjab citizen's but it's a phrasal who are going to take it. So, what will it do? It will enable the logistics service provider to create their profile with the details including name of the company, area of service, number of vehicles available, pace rate, etc. So, which thing will go, which thing will go, integrate into so, logist dashboard enabling them to choose and finalize logistics for the movement of their produce. Then integration of ENWR with ENAM. That is basically negotiable warehouse receipts. Warehouse receipts are like, what happens sometimes? You don't get the right prices in the market. So you don't have to do distress sales. That's why you have to collect in the warehouse, storage and receive a receipt. That is an electronic receipt. You just have to trade in the receipt. You have to write the quality, the quantity, the certifications, the organic, the everything. The market average price will be mentioned. So on the receipt basis, you have to do all the work out. You don't need to move the grain physically. ENWR on the basis of ENAM. Interoperability of ENAM and UMP, the REMES. So what is this? So interoperability with UMP platform of REMES that is in Karnataka has been done. So state waste, which before hotels were, some individuals are going to go to them. So they also integrate. Onboarding of farmer producers on ENAM platform. So how many FPO's are now? So about 1,500 FPO's you can safely say that 2,400 FPO's are there now. Okay? So that's it. Then that's it for ENAM. Move forward. Move forward. Move forward. Move forward. Move forward. Move forward. Move forward. Move forward. Let's move forward. secure. lie. Okay. So, here the division of this department is interested with the responsibility of making policy. Okay, so the division of this department is interested with the responsibility of making policy recommendations on export, import and logistics development of agriculture sector and formulation of strategy for boosting the trade in agriculture commodities. It is the nodal division of the department for coordinating and formulating responses on WTO's agreement on agriculture matters relating to preferential trade agreements, free trade agreements and agro logistics. With Department of Commerce and matters relating to modification of custom duty and GST on agriculture commodities of with the Department of Revenue. So, these departments work with everyone. Now, India's agricultural trade, if you look at export, what is the situation? This is an independent question. With Ukraine, Russia, war, what are the prospects for India's agricultural exports? You can do something like that. Okay, so export of agricultural commodities has helped producers to take advantage of wider international market, which in turn has incentivized their domestic production. On the date of today's date, it is a very simple fund. If anything and everything that you can sell abroad, you will get definitely a higher price. One, because it is export quality. Two, because there is a payment capacity which is higher in developed countries. So, if you have a product which you can sell abroad, definitely you will get foreign exchange for your country and good amount of money for your product. So, you need to work on such products. There is a main thing in agriculture. Today, it is a big deal with Indus Valley civilization. The Britishers have also come to the Spices Trade. Crops exported in large quantities with rice, sugar, spices have witnessed significant increase in area coverage and growth rate of production. India has emerged as a significant agri-exporter of crops like rice, spices, cotton, oil, milk, cake, castor oil, coffee, tea, all these things. Cashews, fresh vegetables and sugar. So, these are our main agriculture commodities. Now, as per available WTO trade statistical review 2022, the share of agricultural export and import in the world agricultural trade is only 2.4% and 1.7%. So, in agricultural export, we have only 0.5%. Every place, we have only 2-3% of the average. So, in agriculture, we have only 2-3% of the average. Now, India was in the top 10 ranking of the global agri-exporters. That is a separate thing because agri-exports are the highest in world over. And in top 10, we have also concerned about the first 3-4 and our difference is very high. India's share of agricultural exports in India's total merchandise export is 11.9%. So, in total goods exports, agricultural exports is 12%. So, as compared to previous years, the agriculture and allied exports increased to rupees 3,74611 crore rupees. So, the agricultural agricultural exports are going on to about 3,80,000 crore rupees. So, primarily on the account of increased export of commodities like wheat because Ukraine, Russia and our major producers of wheat are now in war. So, that is why you see a sizeable wheat increase in year-on-year basis. So, the agricultural export is almost 3 times increase in the export of wheat. Same goes for dairy product export. So, that is also very high. Then, you gram meal, sugar, cashew nut shell and so many other things. So, the major destinations are increased in the export of all the export. So, the major destinations are the biggest export of the export. Bangladesh, USA, China, Vietnam, UAE. These are 4-5-10 crores. Bangladesh, USA, China, Vietnam. Now, these are the agricultural exports in figures. So, there is an increase if you look at in agricultural export. More so in the recent years after the Russia-Ukraine war. Now, India's top 10 agricultural export commodities. We are the most important things we export. The first is marine products. They fetch the highest income. If you look at the value term. Then, there is rice other than basmati. Then, there is sugar and spices. These are top 4. Then, basmati rice, buffalo meat, cotton. If I put basmati or non-basmati value, I will definitely take this top. But, we will see different types. Agricultural imports. There are many things where we are also dependent. Like vegetable oil, fresh fruits. People have to eat today's food. Imported apples, kiwis, dragon fruits. So, pulses even. Spices. Imagine. Cashews. Natural rubber. Oil meals. Oil seeds. Cotton raw. So, many things are being imported also. Top 10 agricultural imports. As you have seen in today's video, just remember this. Vegetable oil, fresh fruits and pulses. These are the most important. Okay. Now, moving on. This is the top 3, top 4. I don't know anything. It means that it is so much. Now, what is the export import policy for agricultural commodities? So, at present, export of most agricultural commodities is free without any restriction. Only export of seeds is under restriction and mustard oil is permitted for export only in branded consumer packs of up to rupees, up to 5 kg. With a minimum export price of US dollar 900 per metric ton. Export ke oopper filhaal, koji restriction nahi hai. Seeds or mustard oil ke oopper thoda restriction hai. Free hai. Tax free hai. Sabhi kabhi restriction laga rita hai. Essential commodities act ke under sugar ke oopper, wheat ke oopper, rice ke oopper. India mein inflation ho kde. Otherwise, na. Import ke under dikha jai. So, in agriculture sector, import of moong, refined palm oil, potato, some seeds of vegetables, spices, cereals, oil seeds, only are under restrictions and other commodities are free for import. Basta ikna ya dat na. Import lo. Details of restrictions nahi chai. Thik hai. Na hai likhne ko chahi hai na padhne ko chahi hai na pralims me na means. GST ko leke kaya workout hai. GST envisades a single tax on supply of goods and services or both by amalgamating all the taxes. One market, one tax. Abish me workout ka hai agriculture ke oopper. So, GST rates on the raw agricultural items are at zero percent. Apart from this, most of the agricultural activities and services are also exempted from imposition of GST. However, for primary processed agricultural items, GST rate is five percent. For secondary and tertiary processed, it is 12 percent. And on-farm machinery component fertilizer of GST rate is between 12 to 18 percent. Primary processed means, like packaged milk, curd, etc. Paneer, five percent GST. Okay. And secondary processed or tertiary processed, for example, processed cheese, it is 12 percent GST. Okay. Considering the representation inputs from various stakeholders and so on, time to time this means changes karte rete. Now trade agreements. So, FTA, SICA, SIPA, CEC EPA, so various kinds of agreements are there in agriculture also. Now India has signed agreements with number of regional trading blocks and countries, namely South Asian Free Trade Agreement, Asia Pacific Trade Agreement, ASEAN, Afghanistan, Mercusur, Japan, so many countries are there. Recently concluded are with UAE and Australia. So, in that agricultural trade, there is no only goods. Now, in WTO, there are ongoing negotiations with European Union and so on. We want to do trade agreements with them. Okay. So, what is the WTO? What is the WTO? What is the WTO? The Committee on Agriculture oversees the implementation of the agreement on agriculture. Its key responsibilities to monitor WTO members' compliance to their commitments and obligations. So, subsidies, the issue comes from the minimum, which is allowed in India. The issues related to India's policies, short-term loan, input subsidies and MSP were responded in coordination with the Department of Commerce. The then goin that'sola Mercusage is required at the에서는 on Belarus. What do we should wear the imbalance that countries are taken to the development development Afric is done with the campaign? Which means that the WTO In such a company is around the control level of Kelvin.<|de|> These up federation and more divided into NATO earnings. which is their position. ? we will give them a day and today. That's why MSP is necessary. That's why the system will be going on the whole system. So we want to do it. So we have an external sector in India. We will have a little more work out for LAWTO basics. And then we will work on it much more. Now, how are we trying to strengthen agricultural export of India? First is creation of agri-cells in nations abroad. So what are they? So they are created by Ministry of External Affairs in 15 Indian missions. So agricultural sales means that we will promote our products. So they compile information on demand supply of various commodities in the host countries, which could be utilized by these exporters. Okay. Then export promotion forum. So product specific export promotion forum for eight agri-products. Grapes, mango, banana, onion, rice, dairy products, pomegranate, and flory culture have been created by the DOC. And it's under the ages of Agricultural Processed Food Export Development Authority, APEDA. So we will do the product specific export promotion. Then each export promotion forum is having exporters of related commodities as its members along with official members. So departmental members will come and they try to promote more things. So how are we going to do that? That's it. Agricultural exports. Then the government and the government and the government and the government. So it's a general scheme. So I don't want to be very bullish on this. I don't want to be very bullish on this. I don't know. If you have to work out something in this, then one of the successes stories are going to be read. How do you develop the agri-entrepreneurship? How do you develop the RKVY? Okay. Just read one or two examples from this. If you have a government or something like that. One or two. If you have a drone or a drone or a used live mission, whatever. But not very important. Drought management, which is in geography, is not something special here. No extra information is provider for drought management. Leave it. International cooperation, again, not a big deal. This is the ministry of who is working with, who is agreeing with. All the things that are doing. The main event question is difficult to answer this chapter. So move forward. Integrated scheme on agriculture, census and statistics. So already we have sufficient agriculture statistics, which you have seen on the top. It's just about the scheme. It highlights that we have statistics about how we are doing agriculture. It doesn't need some mission on agriculture extension. It doesn't need national mission. It was very important. So either it's not required. Okay. Kisan call centers and everything. I don't think there is a direct question. I don't think there is a chance. If you want to mention it, you can't get out of the agricultural extension program. I don't think there is a lot of the part of the agricultural extension program. I don't think there is a lot of the part of the agricultural extension program. Submission on seed and planting material. Don't bother. Seed quality is the main issue. Seed replacement ratio is another main issue. So it's a generalistic question. Government has been related to the seed village program. It's been a basic study. It's been a basic study. Nothing new here. Then, assessment of the knowledge section about 두 makers and the land of the land river. till there areเช diminish the sector. For all, agriculture is necessary to make it a better way to the safety and comfort of the worker. The improvement in the quality and valuation of farm produce. Ultimately, it makes agriculture attractive and profitable and makes it commercial instead of subsistence. This is the basic of the mechanization. We can do that. We can do that as far as the farm machinery. We have two models. One is the capital subsidy scheme. When you have a farm equipment, you can get a subsidized. The third is the low loan. The third is the sharing of equipment. The third is the central. The government works on three things. These are private businesses. They will not have more Doseres while supporting another investment. So before, volcanism erstmal have 들어간 andpt Air bang. This test three things can extend. However, Clever asked which is the current benefit of an負ysum in our company. calling it trimming Gender perspective in agriculture. This is the last important chapter of all this. So women in farming. Now women farmers, they play an important role in agriculture sector and development of rural economy. Agriculture is the single largest production endeavor in India, contributing substantially to the GDP. And it employs 80% of all economically active women, comprising 33% of agricultural labor force and 48% of self-employed farmers. So these many are there in the agriculture. Now women play a significant and crucial role in agriculture development, including main crop production, livestock, horticulture, post-harvest, agro and social forestry and fishing. So everything is active. Increasing percentage of female operational holders during different agriculture census indicate participation of more and more women in operation and management of agriculture holding in the country. Basically feminization of agriculture is why the male labor is migrated to urban areas, construction industry or lucrative jobs in the work of the workers. And the female labor is still on the job of the workers. Now, current initiatives, how we are trying to work. National policy on farmers 2007 included mainstreaming of human and gender dimensions in all farm policies and programs. So there is a national gender resource center in agriculture and that is taking up the initiatives. First is e-book on success stories and progress of women farmers and agripreneurs. Mahila Kisan Divas 2022. That is being celebrated. Then millets empowering women and providing nutritional security. That is another area. What do you think of the name of the farmers? Evidence-based gender inequality in agriculture and food systems in India. So this is a book published. Okay. What are the programs that are being done by Department of Agriculture and Farm and Welfare? First is agricultural extension. Basically awareness generation, knowledge. So support to state extension programs for extension reforms. Atma. Now, what will we do in this? Come to this. Under the scheme, the grants, Atma's full form is agricultural technology management agency. Under the scheme, grants and aid is released to states with an objective to support the state government's efforts for revitalization of extension system. Basically making people aware about agriculture. Making available latest agricultural technologies in different thematic areas. And extension of agricultural activities such as farmer training, demonstration, exposure visit, kisan milla, mobilization of farmer groups, setting up of farm schools. These are activities correct. Gender mainstreaming efforts. Atma. Minimum 30% of the resources meant for programs and activities are required to be allocated to women farmers and women extension functionality. Women farmers are to be involved in different decision-making bodies of the district and block level such as Atma. Women are represented in the farmers advisory committees at block and district level. Farm women's food security groups. At least two per block to be formed annually. Ensuring household food and nutritional security providing assistance of rupees 10,000 per group. So, these women-friendly schemes. Mass media support to agriculture extension schemes. So, these programs are also called BD Kisan, Hello Kisan, and all these programs are called Kisan. So, these programs are called Kisan. So, these programs are called Kisan. So, these programs are called Kisan. So, these programs are called Kisan. Then, establishment of agri-clinics and agri-business centers. E-biziness establishments are called Kisan. So, in order to educate theank 99-5 numbers, And all those conditions do? So, you do not have tight 1-3-1 Tempo.. Then, these areas are located in unsere state Twilight Command. Yeah. In� sant, T I think of 4, Vuay Boss Durant being able to stay sacred Champagne in Ontario, A that you can put a country in your country and Praktics hoe the Tour funding sanctidad. One of the没事 of Lord- dilemm sogami sums. In ur統治es all the Любites well. In our contract Tottenant taguhan non-no-no-derous Personen package has driven meinem jobs. In other contracts組繁 su했어요, workers are currently even more advanced. Whether that they need people from around visiting CH Baseág then extension education institute so ministry of agriculture so it has started four agricultural extension education institutes at aryanna gujarat telangana and assam state then diploma in agricultural extension services for input dealers dicey one-year diploma and skill training for rural youth in bada prana 1960s program has to start the palace called trisome water tribal youth relations should be a data for rural youth so training under this component would be for seven days duration fifteen trainees per batch focused on agriculture and allied activities so vocational development we push us karen gai may be dairy may be honey may be whatever they are into now agriculture census now this is conducted at five yearly intervals abhi humare paas latest joe wo 2017 wala agriculture census thar kiki 2022 uh So, this is the percentage of female holdings. Percentage of female operational holdings by size class as per the result of agriculture census 2015-16. Female holdings, then small 13.4, semi-medium 11.76 and all size groups you can just remember 13.90. Now, what is this impact? The increase in percentage of female operational holders during the agricultural census indicates participation of more and more women in operation and management of agricultural holdings in the country. That's it. Agriculture marketing, which you have read, is all here. Much different name. Farmers welfare, which you have read, is all here. Nothing different. Move forward. This is a conclusive chapter. So, this brings us to the end of this document, which is a doable workout. The other things are not so big. This is all about audit, paras, observation. This finishes our task with respect to this report. We have given you the questions from the next week. We have started working on agriculture. And if you have any doubts about this report, or you want to discuss something about this report, then you have to discuss those topics one by one. Just in case you have a weak area, we will also take it together tomorrow. Okay? So, that's it for today. Thank you. Take care. Study well. And write your questions. That's it for today. Thank you. Take care. Study well. And write your questions.