My Summer Morning Routine/ Homesteading
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2ZWp7YWgbJs
Howto & Style
 Hi guys, this is Liz from Little Homestead on the Hill and today we are just doing some morning errands. So, come along with me. This is our city council director, we are now experiencing improve. We are now facingNA. Now, we are good at our city council 있 program aja about a ת côté voice in a training place cannot talk about it. We開 step to thinking about a lot ofakk words in senseana traveling機俺 hanged a drone motel bus Nuraleboarskend as providers payhmind thank you buddy in mine! So many people are able to help us with disabilities if your mom can take care of yourself! So why you are aので pastor蒸祥 may be doing so that they willylake up here but they will help you call me. world of fire you're my heart's desire i just wanna love you just wanna hold you just wanna be with you till we grow old just tell me you'll stay and take me away i want you to do myself every single day you set my world on fire wake up lady i don't know what i'd do without you you make me smile what is it that you do my life was great till you added colors like the moon is the sun we don't care about the others you set my world of fire you're my heart's desire you guys ready for cookies you just wanna hold you just wanna be with you till we grow old you set me up that's okay i want you for myself every single day all right keep moving little choice i just want to do i just need you i don't know what it is you do okay that's it goodbye i just need you i don't know what it is you do Bye guys! We all go back to the head. We are a Hsideek aástber, ë won'tøse för typ paar bit jenn transportation. We are looking at the Marg operate Berg at Corning Clos dean and we can pare transport GPS in ג конroller Marek Even if I'm falling down, I will keep on searching for my eyes You can say I lost my mind, I will keep on holding my head high Even if the sky is falling down Jumping from cliffs so high, trusting our wings to fly Sometimes we're crashing down, but we get up and start from the ground And I, I really wanna know, really wanna know If I, never figure out where the road goes Even if I'm falling down, I will keep on searching for my eyes You can say I lost my mind, I will keep on holding my head high Even if the sky is falling down Even if the sky is falling down Even if the sky is falling down Even if the sky is falling down Even if the sky is falling down Even if the sky is falling down Even if the sky is falling down How clean! It's a huge difference from the last time you guys saw it A lot of work A little insert yesterday Who do you think was the first person or animal that was in our pool? Go drink the water! Puppy! What are you doing? I'm not going in after you, it's cold Good boy! What are you going to do? You going to swim? Good boy! Good boy! Hi! Was that fun? Was that fun? Oh! So the new thing just happened. I didn't realize that my local grocery store delivers to the house. So this is a huge game changer. They're making it very easy for me to never want to leave. Amazing. I'm so excited about this. I didn't get a lot, but I got some things. I got a gallon of milk, some gluten-free bread, some sugar. I got some canned carrots, five canned carrots, and I got five green beans. I got two pounds of hamburger. I don't need these, but I love these, so these are a sport item. Some strawberries, and two things Gatler. And that was it on this little trip, and I didn't have to go to the store, and it was amazing, and I'm so happy about it. I know, I'm silly. I don't really need new friends, so spend your time with me. Looking for someone who can play though. Wanna hang with me. I'm not really looking for a friend, so spend your time with me. Looking for someone not afraid to give it all to me. I know. Giving you a digital auction to a shorter haul. First捻まって kindness. This is occupational therapy. Flowers are in perfect tongue. brauchen a crush on all the tks These are flavors of like a healthyра ALGA sitzt Compare yourzzo aper store and cookover So take a chance to change with me. It's my trickle when you are close. I'll feel the way to me. What do you cook? Because I've been golden, I'm golden. I'm golden. I'm golden. I'm golden. I'm golden. I'm golden. I'm golden. I'm golden. Get next to me. Get next to me. Get next to me. Get next to me. Get next to me. Get next to me. Get next to me. Get next to me. Get next to me. Get next to me. There's something to. I'm gonna drink my very chocolatey. I think I put two of chocolate in it. That's okay. I'll still drink it. It's still gonna be good. But I'm gonna drink this and I am gonna do some more stuff around here. But I am gonna let you guys here go so I can get this video up and I can get it edited. Have a great morning guys. Bye. Mmm. Oh my god that's good. Mmm. Oh my god that's good. Yeah. That was great. See ya. I'm gonna go to the next video. I'll see you next time. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye.