Behind the Weld: Retired Boilermaker John Tracey Reflects on His Time at Delmade
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=317cg2Gl4Ng
People & Blogs
 Music So guys, I'm here today with John Tracy who has been a part of Delmade for many years, over 20 in fact. He was one of our Boilermaker welders so we're going to have a little chat to him today about his experience with Delmade over the years. Thank you for joining me John. You're welcome. First of all I guess, do you want to tell us a little bit about yourself, where you're originally from and a bit about your life story? Well I was originally a farmer at Chudleigh and then we eventually sold that farm and I moved into Delarone in 1983 I think it was. I was probably there for two years and David Cunningham came to see me about doing some wilding. Were you qualified initially? No I was qualified but I used to do welding on the farm and yes, I enjoyed it. My ambition was my next world would be better than my last. It's a good ambition to have. Yes. And over your span of sort of that 20 years did you see a lot of change within Delmade? Yes. And the machinery was getting bigger and better. And was most of your sort of your building work, was it building new machinery most of the time or? Oh new machinery, yes. I don't think I ever did a repair. First big roller we built was that big and heavy that we had to put a friction brake under the brawler to stop it from pushing you down hills. Which I think it weighed, when it was filled with water it weighed about 9 tonnes. And was there a particular piece of machinery that you particularly liked to work on? Something that you were extra proud of at all or? I guess rollers have made 200 of us. Yeah 200 wow. What is it do you think that sets them apart within the industry? You know they've got a pretty good reputation. Oh I think the quality of the machinery. Yeah. Yes, it has to be. Speaks for itself really doesn't it? Well it does, yeah. I think nearly every farm room in Tasmania has got a roller. And as far as you know working as a Boilermaker welder, do you have any advice for anybody that is considering it as a career? Considering it as a career choice or? That's a very good career choice and make sure when they're doing all these things that they have the proper safety gear and breathing apparatus and all that sort of thing. Yeah. Yeah. That's right. Definitely rewarding when you can see implements like this you know out in the paddock many many years after you've built them isn't it? And when you drive around the state you see blue and yellow. And when you think about the fact that it's 50 years this year for Delmate. This is right. It is, yep. How does it sort of make you feel like is it do you feel a sense of pride of being a part of that or? Oh yes, definitely. dollar conviction. That's six. I guess youeau avoid mantenermen and fattling. And again now I know the approach to Praiseed the Guardian. My fourth priority is going to be the locust and not missing the impact of the public service person in total.