Why an agriculture-based economy makes Yakima a stable community!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3fPvbWeCWLE
People & Blogs
 Music This is an unusual setting isn't it? We're actually right smack in the middle of an orchard and I thought it would be important to bring you here today to kind of set the foundation. Yakima's economy is fueled by the ag business and in particular apples. We grow Fugees, Galas, Honeycrisp, they're my absolute favorite. We've invented new varietals of Cosmic Crisp. Music Yakima County is the largest grower in all of the United States for apples with over 55,000 acres of apples. My family had an orchard very similar to this about seven acres of apples and cherries. And you come in, you plant your ladder and crawl up the trees and throw down all the apples into these great big buckets around your waist. And all that is gone now. The orchards of today, trees are planted really close together and they're on that trellis system so that the branches grow out uniformly. And then the fruit is ripened all the way around. So you get perfect color. You're probably wondering, why are my apples so gorgeous? Or just one of the reasons as well as the efficiency of spraying watering and picking ag and apples in particular in Yakima are really big. Big business. growers now. Gone are the small little charming farms. The packing houses are state-of-the-art. You've never seen anything like it. This is also allowed for us to have a stable economy. These jobs now that used to be seasonal, they're year-round. Now they live here and then they're invested in our community and that helps contribute to the stability of our economy. We should care where our food comes from and when you live in the valley you literally get to see it in your backyard and the people that grow all of this, they're your neighbors. So we're really connected to the grower and the produce that they create for us. If it wasn't for this water this would be a barren desert. In fact Yakima County is a desert. These canals and water systems were installed in 1910. They bring water from the Cascade Mountains into a large water reservoir which is then funneled down in early spring into our canal system and then it fills the entire valley with water. It's a trifecta of perfection. We've got beautiful sunshine, incredible water and very fertile soil. It's perfect for growing all of your fruits and vegetables. If you like an ice cold beer you can thank a Yakima Valley farmer. These are giant hops. Some people think that they might be giant grapevines which always cracks me up. We are the world's largest grower of hops. Who would have thunk here in Yakima County. It's pretty amazing. With new varietals coming online we have scientists and high-tech people that are creating those. We also have extract companies. So they take the bud once it comes on this vine and they reduce the resin out of it to create the craft beer that all of us enjoy. You have niche beer makers that are creating incredible flavors and the quality of jobs that this industry is attracting is really elevating the entire valley in terms of skill level education. It keeps people here because there's so much opportunity. And we have tap rooms and tasting rooms across the valley. You should probably come check it out and do your own scientific research because the beers are fantastic. As a long-time Yakima native I've watched this entire valley explode from small family farms to these giant orchards that we see today and the hop industry is everywhere. And what has been really fun is seeing how Yakima has embraced this change and now they're really leaning into the tourism. A local valley entrepreneur she started a company called the Little Hopper. So when you come to Yakima you can rent her fabulous bus and she'll take you across the valley. You can go to wine tasting rooms, farmers markets, and of course you can have as much craft beer as your heart can dream of. There's so much that this industry has brought to the valley and it's been really fun to see it evolve from being just ag-based and providing stability as well as introducing and leaning into tourism and what that means for all of us. I think I'm ready for a cold beer. I hope you enjoyed this tour getting to know Yakima at a different level and understand why this is such an incredible place to live work and play. It truly is a very unique special place. Come check us out.