Mounting and Dismounting Do's and Dont's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3GzMdSE7AiM
Education
 Craig Cameron right here talking with you a little bit about horses and horsemanship. I bet a question I get asked as much as any other is about getting off, getting on my horse. What's the best way to get on? What's the best way to get off? What do you do if they start walking off? These are important things to address because horsemanship is about habits. We want to create good ones with our horses and we want to be safe. So mounting to me is just like anything else. A lot of it is in the preparation. So when I'm going to mount a horse, one of the first things I look at is I check out his legs and feet. Is he ready to be got on? You watch all the people. They never pay any attention to this. Then the first thing they do is they walk up here and then they grab the saddle like this and they lean back. As soon as they lean back, they're pulling on the horse. Now he has to move his feet to find his balance and guess what? Just like that, he's a walking. It's because that's what we made him do. So to me, I'm looking at this horse's feet. I mean he isn't in a bad spot but he could be better or more squared or balanced up. So I achieved that by just grabbing the saddle horn right here. This is what I'm going to do. I'm going to grab this saddle horn and just kind of rock this horse around a little bit. I'm watching him just square his feet up. Now, boy, he's much more squared up, more apt to stand still when I go to get on. Plus through repetition, every time I do that, he says, I think this old boy is fixing to get on. He starts learning. He knows. Now I'm going to prepare myself to get on. And there are several different ways you can do this. You know, you watch all the people that go to get on this way and they do this, which isn't bad. But see how my foot's running into him? First of all, I can't get my foot very far in the stirrup because it's hitting the horse. Now, because my toe's hitting him, a lot of times that starts moving. And that's exactly what happens. I'm not saying you can't ever get on that way. And you could hold the stirrup and maybe do it a little better. But here's a good way if you're physically able to do it. So I'm going to square my horse up again. I'm going to just turn this stirrup to me. And look, I'm standing in front of my horse. By standing in front of my horse, he's less apt to want to walk off. I'm going to turn this stirrup and sort of caulk it down where I can put my foot into it. Then I'm going to come around the side and I'll be ready to get on. So watch. I'm prepared. I pull my britches up where I can get my legs up a little bit. Caulk that thing. And I just put my foot. See, I just put my foot right in there. Now I'm going to come around this way. Hop. Watch. I'm going to grab that mane to pull on. Grab the swell of that saddle on my seat. Pull myself up. Center up. And sit down easy. You see how this horse just stayed put? It's the way I presented myself to him that made a tremendous difference. Another thing you might think about. You just, you watch like I do. I'm always watching, observing, remembering right there of what to and not to do. You know, a lot of horsemanship is what not to do. But you watch a lot of people. As soon as they sit in the saddle, they kick that horse and they ride him off. Then they tell me the horse learns through repetition. So the horse, he knows that as soon as you sit down, you're going to go somewhere. So he starts walking. That's another reason a lot of horses will start walking when you go to get on. So if I'm in a training mode, there's not a stampede or a grizzly bear chasing me or my friend hasn't been snake bit up here. I'm not in a rush. I'm going to get this horse to wait on me. Get in the habit of waiting on me. Get in the habit of just standing still when I mount him. Shoot. I could flex him right, flex him left, move the hind quarter, the front end side, pass him a little bit, then ride him off. And this horse will get to where he just stands statue still for me. And man, there's nothing nicer when you go to get on or off a horse. Now, talking about getting off, you know, I see a lot of people doing it when I just cringe sometimes because they put themselves at risk or at danger. So to me, when I get off, I want to take care of myself, take care of my horse. How do I do this? This is what I do, not some of the time, every time I get off. I've been in enough wrecks and I'm trying to avoid those wrecks or trouble right there. First thing I do, I know I'm going to get off, got my horse stopped where I want to stop. Watch. I'm going to get rid of this right stirrup all together. Look, I got my foot plumb out of that stirrup right there. Now I'm going to back off my foot and just have the toe on my boot. You watch a lot of people, they get off, their foot's still all the way in that stirrup. Then they get off, that horse boogers and their foot's kind of trapped in there. Boy, you can get drug off and that's dangerous. So to me, it just doesn't take me any more time to get shut of this right stirrup, put the toe of the boot in this one and I got more reins here. I might mention, do not get off or on your horse without having the reins. Guys, that's just like jumping on a car with this, you know, it could just take off, you know, rolling downhill or something. Have those reins where you can stop him if he starts to move in. So watch. I'm going to prepare, make sure there's no slicker, nothing where my spur's going to catch back here, right here. I get a little bit of the mane. I got something to hang on to and I'm going to go right back where I started. I'm going to kind of step out in front of this horse, just like that, and I'm right back where I needed to be, just the toe of that boot and that stirrup where I wasn't trapped or got into trouble. Hey, it's no good if you get hurt, no good if the horse gets hurt. And the things that I'm telling you, they don't take any more time to do it and you're going to look better, you're going to do better, you're going to be a heck of a lot safer. And my friend, that is good horsemanship. Thank you.