North Carolina farmers face uncertainty as legislators consider cutting health program
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3SwG3JXPIgA
News & Politics
 Hundreds of farmers are still trying to recover after Helene now face another potential blow. State lawmakers are still deciding if they will permanently cut a program that gave farmers a reliable revenue source. Now this map shows the number of farms from Buncombe County to McDowell County who are selling crops to the Healthy Opportunities Program. News 13's Kimberly King reports from Yancey County. More than 400 farmers across western North Carolina are farming for the Healthy Opportunities Program. And the farmer whose land I'm standing on also produces produce for that program. The devastation for many farmers after Helene makes the continued funding for this, they say, so critical. We were starting to get some messages maybe like a few weeks ago that the Healthy Opportunities Program was potentially or is currently not funded in the North Carolina budget. The news startled farmer Nicole Del Cogliano. We're a farm in recovery, active recovery from Hurricane Helene. The HOP program has helped give farmers like Nicole and her husband up to 20% of dependable annual income selling vegetables from kale to beets then distributed to underserved families. For me it's life saving. Bobbi Jo Carpenter's a recipient. We get meats, eggs, milk, different kinds of fruits and vegetables. Each week we're doing about $20,000 in farmer sales for the HOP program currently. Sierra Bryant, operations director for Tractor Food Hub, said news that the program could end spread fast. The first reaction is to be a little fearful because we have several farmers that already have product in the ground. It stays our starvation. Six-year-old Guy Scott is disabled. Everything from kale to carrots to peas. In his freezer in Asheville, meals made from equal project plates that comes from produce from the program. He hopes legislators will continue to fund. With government it seems like they're giving it to you out of their own pocket. And they can afford it but we can't. In Yancey County, Kimberly King News 13. Aberdee Well, let's do this. Ladies and gentlemen, how do you intend to go? Mercedes Taylor How do you think? We know We know The reason through The The The The The The