The Secret to Weed-Free Gravel Garden Pathways
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4akwKvlLfQQ
Education
 If you're like me, you get frustrated because you feel like in your gravel walkways, you're pulling the exact same weeds over and over again. I found one tip, one action, that was life-changing for me. And if you have the same troubles, it could save you a lot of work and time too. I have not weeded this walkway in a month. You will see I left a few to come up here and here to show that this is not freshly weeded for the sake of this video. You can ask my previous apprentices, you can ask my family, my pathways were an absolute struggle to maintain. So for the first couple of years I had my garden, I had just grass pathways in between my raised beds and I was taking a weed trimmer and even a little push mechanical lawnmower to try to keep the grass at a reasonable height. But if you've ever done that, you know it can be a real struggle with trying to maintain the pathways, weed trimming around all of the beds and just to keep it looking nice. So what I did is I put down landscaping fabric and then I did my gravel pathways. And for about a month or two, it was amazing. It was pristine, it looked beautiful and it was easy maintenance. But after that first couple of months, it became a maintenance nightmare. And it has been for the last couple of years until I was talking to my father-in-law about it on a visit. He had this big pile of gravel and my husband and I felt so lazy. You know, we work on a farm and we weren't doing anything while we were there. So we volunteered to push all of the gravel out into the yard. And he said, no, no, no, I haven't taken up the landscaping fabric for yet. And we said, why do you have to do that? And he goes, because that is an absolutely ridiculous way to maintain weeds. I don't want the weeds. I got to take that all up. This was so counterintuitive to what I've read, learned, and seen. And so I started doing some research. Is it true that landscaping fabric actually makes maintenance worse? It's true. I do not know who decided landscaping fabric was a good idea, but I'm reading countless encounters of people who took up their landscaping fabric, just like my father-in-law said to do. And it was life-changing for them because what happens is the landscaping fabric, if you have a lot of grassy, deciduous, leafy weeds, creates a root network. That network can never be fully pulled up because on the back underside of the landscaping fabric, it all connects together and creates this massive web that you can't possibly pull up and out through the landscaping fabric. I started shoveling and moving the rock out of the way and grabbing up the fabric where I could. And as I would pull it, I would shove that stonework to the side, pull it up, shove more to the side. And I literally pulled all of that landscape fabric up and out from underneath my gravel walkways. I waited a month. I'm going to show you what that looked like, that web, that root system that's in that grass because it's pretty insane and you'll understand better what I'm saying. But after I took it up, I have not been fighting the same weeds over and over again. I was constantly pulling rye grass, both annual and perennial. I was pulling up crab grasses. I have all of these grasses that I'm about to show you in a patch where I purposely didn't pull up the landscaping fabric because I wanted to see if this was actually going to be legit and hold true. So again, haven't weeded. That's what my pathways are before. Constantly. You can see they go to seed. It constantly is dropping. That landscape fabric underneath creates a substrate. It creates a growing medium to hold and fix those roots in place. So here's the back of the landscaping fabric and you can see with the rock removed, how that just hangs on. Look at underneath here. That's the underside. Life changing. Maybe you don't have the same types of grasses or weed struggles that I did and maybe landscape fabric works for you. And if it does, awesome. I'm glad that you found something that does. It did not work here and it doesn't work for my father-in-law and he lives on the opposite side of the country. So with all that said, I will never use landscaping fabric again. Oh, gosh. Mm-hmm. . These are the people of the United States. And lots of friends. I spirit groups that do not work to be done that this might be veryこと. And thank you. Oh, so this is everybody. It's just connector people. It's really美 popular and healthy. You know, does it work to like eat alone? You hear. It's used all we too. There is all this kind of story that you can use by identifying from living Nh crimin and evil dude. There isно for those who went together and feeling like he was unable to survive. And it's been soerta and new 뭐가 so amazing and there are amazing. And it's really sticky and useful things. The one could have never looked for the same link on Facebook How can I learn?