John Deere Precision Ag Technology - Powered By Sunshine
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4cyKQX0yhJ0
People & Blogs
 We're helping the customers learn about the new technologies that John Deere has to offer. And that's a wide variety of things. Some of it may be Auto-Track, which is a pretty common precision ag technology that we offer and that's the one that will actually steer the tractor or combine or sprayer. We've also got section control and that's on our new N500C air seeders. So instead of going just a half of a drill at a time, it actually has four sections. So you're going to save money on seed by not putting out more seed than you need to. And that helps out tremendously. The operation center is another one. The customers will have them, farmers will have them on their phones. So they can keep track of what their other tractors are doing. If they're in one tractor and we've got guys running in another tractor, they can keep track of that. Make sure that they're getting the job done. They can see how fast they're going. They can see the work that has been completed. Work planner is another one. They can actually send jobs to those tractors or to the sprayer. And that allows that operator to just move on to the next job that they have assigned to. Work planner is a new feature that has been added. It's a place where you can go in and plan work. And then you can also have that work sent to the machine. So the operator can receive that work in. It already gives him his client form and field name. The task that he's trying to do and maybe if it's a planning operation, it would be have his rate already in there and the variety that he's using. So he's not having to go in there and type a bunch of things into the computer. He can kind of just go out there, get in the field. And the minute you drive into the field, it will populate that up. You can also put some work instructions that will pop up in front of them as well. Technology sometimes is a little scary for some people. But that's why we're here. We're here to kind of show you how it needs to be set up and ran. We do some troubleshooting. If somebody does have some issues, we're obviously going to be out there for to help them get through the issues that they're having. The most fulfilling part is just actually working with the farmers. It's fun to be out there and in the cabs with them and making sure that they're happy with the product that they have. But then showing them little tricks and things that can help them out along the way. And like I said, it's all about efficiency, so we can kind of gain some here and there. It's they're really happy to see that.