OPSC OCS Prelims Exam 2024 | Economics | Agriculture in India | Economics OPSC OCS 2024
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4dMj6NKLGRM
Education
 Thank you. Thank you. Very good evening to all of you. Is this audible, visible to all? My audible, visible to all? What are your minLET Merci? French. French. French. French. French. French. France. French. French. French. French. French. French. French. French. French. French. French. French. French. yeah yeah you are all clear you you yes yeah agriculture discussion start yes everyone join join yeah so topic of discussion start important information share we have a class OCS OCS OCS OCS assessment we have a assessment we have a assessment we have a assessment as compared to other candidates we have a performance this is the okay we have a assessment this 29th June 10 12 12 11 15 15 OCS Pre-Mock Test 2025 CS CS CS we have a top 10 rank service access 2.0 which has been exclusively designed for OCS aspirants Prelim top 10 rankers subscribe to 29th 29th CS exactly same OCS it is very much similar to OCS OCS OCS OCS subscribe subscribe attend on physics application free s s s s s join test attend 29th June GS 30 prepare to top rankers service 2.0 order class so any doubt any question topic of discussion agriculture last class last class very important topic discussion on last class what is the topic of discussion last class how many you you you agriculture food food land reform this topic is a a a a last class to planning and in India plus a a a a a a a a a there research everything and I think there in an a a arkadaşlarHHHH an what ventilationudo Cooperative Federalism and Competitive Federalism. Cooperative and Competitive Federalism. Inclusive Development. Inclusive Development. The second question is, how many sectors are there in the economy? How many sectors are there in the economy? How many sectors are there in the economy? How many sectors are there in the economy? How many sectors are there? Sustainable Development is also correct. How many sectors are there? How many sectors are there? How many sectors are there? 5 are the most important sector. How many sectors are there in the economy? How many sectors are there in the economy? primary sector primary sector secondary sector primary sector primary sector primary sector primary sector the student ओने यह ख़िश्टाआओ घे ? ओने ह dovो पैर त्टीर्शी  सव के लूट टिर मुंघ अब चांजा सही तहुए ! तातने रिलेटेटीो। my confidential Clems I'm your and and I'm I'm oh oh foreign so now primary sector is sector importance what is the importance of primary primary sector importance importance of primary sector importance of primary sector importance important point is it provides us food security food security accessibility affordability and availability of the food grains food security provide 3a accessibility affordability and availability automate disappointment employment especially thekehr yeah alito Gabay el Christopher Em態 El Elôm tu Luan hold Jim Mary R exist would he is called political significance export foreign country and especially Indian agricultural products they have a very good demand in the international market who go product demand Indian agro products Indian potato Indian tomato onion different type of spices then Indian fresh fruits fruits all to import and how to make mango and grapes mango grapes all to export export benefit export export benefit what is the benefit of export export 66% which sanjorital foreign exchange efterlyan foreign exchange foreign Exchange foreign exchange what are the factors which you have impact on agriculture What are the factors which have impact on agriculture? Factors having impact on agriculture. Factors influencing agriculture. Influencing. Factors are the factors that have impact on agriculture. Geographical factors. Geographical factors are the factors that have impact on agriculture. Yes, yes. So, message as such. Factor impact on agriculture. Geographical factors. What are the geographical factors? Factor impact. The most important one is soil. Then is climate. Then water availability. Irrigation. Water availability. You can understand. You can understand. You can understand. You can understand. Natural earnings. Available экспер amount. Highway. You can understand. foreign equator this is 23 half north 23 half south this is 66 half north 66 half south this is 90 degree north 90 degree south are BAR thepected awareness the temperature or foreign foreign foreign climate is suitable conducive climate one will this is conducive or suitable climate or suitable climate now suitable climate one will it is conducive or suitable climate that means that climate is beneficial one will that climate is beneficial for climate is beneficial for more production even for the health of the workers the worker health benefits workers the worker health better way then they can earn more to the production so climate change impact climate change impact because of climate change climate change impact production impact contribution contribution to production production production production production food production rice production contribution production production Doesn't do free indigenous variety of seed the newest company it exists so climate change impact america on the agriculture these are impact of climate change on agriculture as well as economy economy climate change only geographical phenomena no climate change is geographical phenomena having impact on the economy extreme climate extreme climate extreme climate crash in the mayor high rainfall drought high heat high heat region so low production extreme climate impact is low production is this vegetable and oh north eastern states due to tropical forest tropical rainforest backward region because of high rainfall economic activity high-tech let's do this oh then now we have impact our social factor social cultural factor the impact on agriculture is always a symbol of backwardness it is a symbol of it is a symbol of backwardness how many agro entrepreneurs are there very low agro entrepreneurs agriculture is considered to be a symbol of backwardness economic significance economic impact most important is loan loan subsidy insurance mostly crop insurance economic significance sorry economic factor political factor also political factor role of role of political party in power role of political party in power whether they are promoting agriculture or not whether they are promoting agriculture or not muzhalaらいin we are only coming to a different country म HEY स्क्रेर वीच्य्भा का इनिकेडा फहरा अगहीता नाइड़ा उडर आक्या का इनिकेड़्वा आप Improvement आसने लाग rif so so agriculture is the most important sector of indian economy gtp gtp gtp 17.5 percent contribution are but workforce workforce on an average 52-53 percentage of workforce 52-53 percentage of workforce here social society how the society accepts agriculture there of av 작은 창m consistently provinces milestones go from principal income. agriculture, Vale, Flexibility industry. There are many people earning more than 2 lakhs per month. 1 lakh per month income. In the small area, there are 670,000 square foot in the small area. There are 625,000 square foot in the small area. So, if you do this, you will continue to work. The technology requires that you can do a job. You can see that you can do a job. You can do a job. You can do a job. You can do a job. You can do a job. You can do a job. The job is also the same thing. The job is only for marriage. The job will change. We have a clear factor for security. We will have a good job. that is cool and final but there is no security and because of lack of confidence socially and culturally and most important is technological technology influence technology technology biotechnology chemical technology mechanical technology information communication technology is biotechnology chemical mechanical information communication technology you can use tractor power tiller harvester cultivator ICT information communication technology chemical technology chemical technology bio chemical technology fertilizers biotechnology you can have hyv seed high yield variety seeds . So . . . So . . . Then unorganized labor force. Unorganized labor force. 93% of the total labor force of the economy. 39.8 crores is employed in unorganized sector. India is one of the top agro exporters. Cotton, rice, meat, oil, milk, spice. So, agriculture is a good thing to export. Now, agriculture is a relationship. Is it connected to industry? Agriculture and development is a industry development. It is possible. Agriculture and development is a industry development. Is it possible? Is it possible? Is it possible? Is it possible? Tribal in??? Al discurideness. Yes, industrial siable tis. industry development in does it in in in raw material and the raw material is agriculture so this body and this body is also in industry agriculture sector grow so both are connected to each other the India agricultural export 1% increase by 1% flow 8500 perot agricultural flow more than 8500 perot the agricultural crop is from July to June the main season is called the curry crop and the raw material the curry crop is from July to October the main season is called the southwest monsoon and the summer monsoon in case of southwest monsoon or summer monsoon so this is the value of the crop the raw material crop in October and March the return in the summer between March to June March to June this is the value of the crop sorry sorry this is the value of the winter monsoon it is the value of the October November and January and March the value of the crop is the value of the Z crops as the value of the Z crops the value of the crop so it is important the raw material raw material crop raw material crop same term to use Pakistan two other countries they also use these two terms raw material crop they describe the cropping pattern raw material originate from the Arabic language raw material means autumn and raw material means spring raw material means spring raw material numлет more fingers fish fish ears seductor soy Miller seraJonas familia oh oh I bought brain vitamin brain vitamin it is full of magnesium magnesium it is a micronutrient required for brain functioning of brain brain tell the greenRP that solution is about food philosophy now i always catch 158 million pounds Alternatively seriously should I always be aware how I will give you a comment on Millet Mission. I will ask you about the OCS Mains. Write a start note on Millet Mission. Millet Mission is promoted through SHH, Self-Help Group, Mission Shakti. Mission Shakti is a good idea of Mandiya. Mandiya Momoa, Mandiya Cake, Mandiya Biscuit, Mandiya Mixture, Mandiya Products. who sat in Shannon's life Memorial Month emotional investment so whatever happens then. But, when he's around, the mechanism is made for him, he also makes difficult to catch success. Because his 목inatedpa Zazzama, he all reached global purpose. The value is a good. Money is about the end. When I say I have the cultural skills, I would be for the first 1950-80, this time period after independence. What was the main problem in this case? What was the problem? Suryo sir, what did the foot overage go? What did the foot overage go? intermediate was the meaning he has learnt. I am I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I more food grains physical access to food physical access to food production there was less production so production body of my food then national second page second page it problem economic access to food affordability affordability affordability affordable economy low cost low cost low cost cholera low cost I am going to talk about media. I am going to talk about it. In this case, we have a PIL file, PIL is called Public Interest litigation, Supreme Court, by People's Union for Civil Liberties. And national level food for work program, it was merged. National Eural Employment Guarantee Scheme was merged. The right to food emerged. The right to food comes under your article. The right to food comes under article 21. The economics, geography, politics, politics, politics, Article 21, right to life and personal liberty. Now, this is a segregated class. I am going to talk about it. Every subject is connected. Topic is connected to all 360 degree angles. The subject is connected to the subject. The economics class is connected to the subject. The economics class is connected to the economics class. The geography is pure. So, geography for social development, economics for social development, and quality for social development, connect to the government. I am going to talk about it. The right to the court order, the government will be responsible for this. The government will be responsible for this. Second phase. Third phase. 1980s onwards. 1980s onwards. So, they are a consequence for central government will be answerable to this central government will be responsible for this second phase second phase for us third phase 1980s onwards for 1980s onwards so yes some of the problem gone 1980s problem already ampari green revolution sila more production agricultural development so it is organic farming by the sustainable agriculture sustainable agriculture sustainable agriculture means for a long term for a long term sustainability green revolution green revolution food is successful green revolution food is successful and is successful in ponza oriana western uttar pradish green revolution impact in ॽating the oily solar buttoniamo impact on climate is important climate is important to improve my environment कोईल पौनक होईलें प्रत प्रसामएथ प्री प्रीशथल्चपरी ट्रीला पॉस्वइल डिखरेडेटेस्षण 3 3 on contamination the soil contamination water degradation water pollution water contamination eutrophication iso problem this and how it affects the climate I'm not often שנit bad Oh it…. lata regional disparity it was only successful in this region olga region rest of the region rest region discussion the next is land reform land reform what is the objective of land reform foreign independence for land reform first of all the agrarian structure institutional discrepancies reduce most important fragmented land the farmer the farmer the farmer the farmer the farmer theんだ Cody outta this is fragmented approach this is fragmented approach so you fragment now holistic approach cost of production reduces you most important point for land reform second land reform socio-economic inequality reduce you Boudan moment Boudan moment led by a charge in the way Odisha moment Boudan moment successful how can agricultural production so agricultural production agriculture is related to many socio-economic issues like reduction of poverty malnutrition hunger food insecurity this is a problem this is a problem reduce sorry oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh So we will propose Seaux statistical fera. For bad potential, the issue is least about in the same age. Here we will now guide just an an... Of habit. to the tenants so that landless mass you know slavecropper AM LAURA long救овор but land reform mostly it was a failure project by the government is that point of time land was considered as a matter of social prestige or social status so in land reform political will is required to some extent land reform was successful in kerala and west river because of your leftist government leftist government to some extent it was successful then corruption rampant corruption in the public life rampant corruption in the public life a carna pahin land reform was a failure then it's green revolution green revolution katham already kawali green revolution objective console and more production it is all about increasing the production it is all about increasing the production or more production then what are the components of green revolution you want to question answer someone what are the components of green revolution opposed okay wenn i you you technology chemical technology technology information communication technology mechanical technology technology where you can talk about high yield variety seeds there you can talk about irrigation fertilizer or not insurance insurance insurance insurance you have so schemes different type of schemes government of india loan waiver was subsidy subsidized subsidized loan so these are different components of green revolution then cropping pattern cropping pattern of factor impact the geographical factor like soil landform precipitation moisture altitude is not a good thing maybe but there are many ghost beneficial ghost beneficiary ghost beneficiary so cropping pattern of factor impact proper conditions of figure and demographic Señika food habits Beginning in North India, We have entered the Spektualic Food Habits Festivals' goes to this label Shkre ka announces water Soft Radiation enfim impact economic factors like financial resource based land ownership foreign financial resource land ownership fuel finance foreign fuel finance technology already created seed plant issue important foreign foreign First you Blue revolution revolution from white revolution from pink revolution and golden revolution cuz she could do a world europé agora black petroleum very good blue is fish white is milk black is petroleum pinkish onion golden duck on golden duck on golden duck on the fiber jute honey honey fruits production of it fruits honey jute silver silver production silver production is all about egg very good this is egg or i can say poultry farming or we can say poultry farming pig rearing scheme for landless rivers commercial rearing to promote the next point was msp minimum support price minimum support price farmer loss minimum support price so minimum support price ee kb ask em jesna on the recommendation of cacp important commission for agricultural cost and price which is cacp msp msp currently it is given for 24 commodities seven cereals msp msp msp msp msp msp msp msp msp msp msp msp msp so msp product product is very important these are the products on which msp is declared on the recommendation of cs50 on the recommendation of cs50 clear then mis market intervention scheme market intervention scheme vegetables fruits fruits are vegetables condition called the condition of g that the production 10 percent increase in production or the 10 percent decrease in the ruling rate rate the 10 percent rate coming as compared to the previous normal year quality mis mis mis condition now 50 50 state government union state government or central government edicate 50 50 loss so you know about north eastern state rate is 25 and 75 per union having stata 10 neues uftich under previous normal العolds by 10 percent increase percent increase this clear he is like night phone with you foreign now frp is specifically given for your sugar can minimum price for sugar can and it is released declared on the basis of again cacp commission for agricultural cost and price so frp and msp market intervention any doubt now how important point Odisha Odisha Odisha Odisha Agroclimatic zone Odisha Odisha Odisha the next point the growth pattern the growth pattern the production production production production the production of food food the production of food the food the burger the burger the burger the condom the total 36% the food the food the oil the the the the the the the the the the top five producer the the the the the the the the the the the pizza ma the the the the short refused banana and jackfruit yeah okay yeah Is you doubt? how did you show him in your class? in the class we revisited go-kong-kong richer and we appreciated text agriculture does itHey, ال change in August ismout Trump the types of crop give a tips of crop green revolution is this ml subs when 3A Accessibility, Affordability and Availability of Programs. Factors Influencing Agriculture. Very good. Factors. Factors Influencing Agriculture. Next, which I fear the oil industry. How do I see the волos involved in gas? Its domain to enter your company. in in grandchildren card CA TIPP Hangi nai? Khi ka ch? Beho ut boh hai Tal ehti ki saangsta padi kaashi be Aho jhaa chhi dekhiwa aame next class That's all for this session Yes food philosophy be padi chai Athi ki paadi kaashi be Aand na dhekhi Kune dhekhiwa aame next class Monday class Kone koriya kuwa? Monday class auch Monday class auch Monday class auch Industry kohi You Kone koriya kuwa? Yes Monday next class Kali to sonday auchi Monday kodit zhin Baandhitila maazhrekoon Takuwa me kapaap koreo Industry auchu kuchu important topic Next class auchiwa So that's all for this session Thank you Goodnight I I I I I I I I I I I I I