Unknown Title
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4eEU8saT-n8
Unknown Category
 So she's learning how to selkie plow. We're going to follow them around for about seven minutes while we also learn a few things about the selkie plow. I'm at Killers International today, which is a training center for historic farm skills like the selkie plow. Hi, my name is Chuck. The channel is Around Van Buren, and today we're talking about the selkie plow. They're working a two-acre plot along with other volunteer draft horse teams today. I caught up with Cody in the Tillers International woodworking shop, and this is what he told me. How Tillers International started. It was a forum for training draft animals, and so that two acres out there is sort of what ties everything together. It's where we practice those historic skills and make them come alive. People are welcome to come here and to learn these historic skills for whatever reason that they have. Maybe they want to use them on their own market garden farm, or maybe they just want, they're curious and they want to have the joy of learning. The selkie plow was invented by the John Deere Company in 1875, and since then it's been built by many other companies. She's leading the team, although it seems like the horse on the right is a leader too. Thank you for coming out. I'm Cody. Cody, I'm Darren. Darren, I think we met just previously. Yeah, we have met before I think. Yeah. Are you farm manager? Is that what you do? What do you do? I'm a mid-weeter. Is that right? I haven't made it to farm manager. Okay. But I hope to get a little bit. We have a couple of sections of rye and then you can see this hairy bench. Oh, that's a good one. I'm a mid-weeter. I'm a mid-weeter. I'm a mid-weeter. I'm a mid-weeter. I'm a mid-weeter. I haven't made it to farm manager. Okay. But I hope we have a couple of sections of rye and then you can see this hairy bench. Today one of the manufacturers of selkie plows is Pioneer Equipment. Another company that makes selkie plows today is white horse machine. Here's a picture of one of the white horse machine. Selkie plows. It can plow 10 to 12 acres a day. I was looking online for instructions on how to use selkie plow. I've got a link that's about as close as I can get. But I think your best bet is to sign up with killers international.org for one of their training sessions. If you visit Tillers International outside of Kalamazoo, Michigan, they've got camping and rooming. I don't understand entirely, but contact them. Also, in the southeast corner of Kalamazoo, Michigan, there's a lot of camping. There's plenty of hotels. There's plenty of hotels, and that's a short drive away from the other people. Tillers International. Tillers International. Tillers International outside of Kalamazoo, Michigan, they've got camping and rooming. I don't, I don't understand entirely, but contact them. Also, in the southeast corner of Kalamazoo, there's plenty of hotels. And that's a short drive away from Tillers International. them. Also in the southeast corner of Kalamazoo there's plenty of hotels and that's a short drive away from Children's International. Other teams are out today practicing their skills and demonstrating draft animals as well. Blacksmith at Tillers International is very helpful and he explained more about how things work. From Tillers Program's perspective we work with people from other countries frequently where there's not a dealer where you can get parts for repairing your farm equipment. So the pieces sometimes are locally manufactured or sometimes they're imported somewhere else, but if something breaks the only way you're gonna fix is to go to the village blacksmith just like they did in this country in the old days and get them to make a new part or repair the piece you have. And so sometimes it might be a modern repair like an arc weld, but it could often be just done with rivets or bolts or something and about working a forge like this one. So you're heating the parts and you're heating the parts of the top to bend around and change the shape. Okay, good. Thank you. Okay, nice talking. For their farming program, Tillers International trains anyone. Small farms, truck patch farms, subsistence farmers, homesteaders, preppers, self-sufficient, home-steaders, preppers, self-sufficient, farm-steaders, preppers, and farm-steaders. For their farming program, Tillers International trains anyone. Small farms, truck patch farms, truck patch farms, subsistence farmers, farm-steaders, preppers, self-sufficient, survivalist, off-grid, international farmers, organic farmers. Who did I miss? The Amish use horse-drawn farm implements like this all the time, but they grow up with it. For horse-drawn equipment, teams can consist of two, three, or four horses. The number of horses used depends on the equipment and the weight that's being pulled. A common setup is two horses hitched side by side. In this case, we have four horses hitched side by side. And sometimes the four horse hitch would consist of two teams, one in front of the other. Early selkie plows, like the Oliver, turned 12, 14, or 16 inch furrows, and were pulled by three horses or mules. Axle grease reduced friction. Modern selkie plows might have a dozen or more grease fittings. Now we're going to see her in the driver's seat. The 12, 14 inch furrow is very small. The 13-14 inch furrow is very small. The 13-14 inch furrow is very small. And they're very small. The 14-14 inch furrow is always very small. Now we're going to see her in the driver's seat. Now we're going to see her in the driver's seat. Now we're going to see her in the driver's seat.