Best Management Practice - Harvestable Cover Crops
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4gJz-xvMYrk
People & Blogs
 Hi everyone, I'm Heidi Messerle and I'm going to be talking a little bit about best management practices. The best management practice or BMP that I chose to research was harvestable cover crops. There's a lot to do with harvestable cover crops and how they can be put into a best management practice to better the environment and agriculture as a whole. So let's get into it. So what are best management practices? Best management practices are meant to protect the environment and to conserve natural resources, protect the environment, and unfortunately they're site specific. But usually something can be found regardless of location to implement a best management practice. For example, a best management practice that you may use in Western Australia versus Southern Kansas versus here in Blacksburg in Montgomery County may be very different. It's very dependent on location, soil type, weather type, all of those good things. So what is a harvestable cover crop? Harvestable cover crops help reduce soil erosion. They reduce erosion, which typically leads to reducing pollution. By reducing erosion, there are less sediments and less pollutants transported into water. Harvestable cover crops are something that, it's a plant, typically it's rye, wheat, there's a variety of different ones, but they're planted after the cash crop has been harvested. So they are used to kind of help the soil along while the cash crop is not in the soil. So here's two examples of some harvestable cover crops. On the left you'll see winter wheat and on the right you'll see rye. Both of these you've probably seen here locally in Montgomery County or maybe where you're from. If not, it's certainly a cool thing to be on the lookout for and see what they do. So here on this slide are five goals of the best management practice harvestable cover crops. However, there are lots of goals. Like I've said before, it is kind of location dependent. Here are just a couple that really stood out to me as probably the top goals that I got from my sources, which will be linked at the end. So the biggest goal of this best management practice is to reduce waterway pollution. There are multiple ways to reduce waterway pollution, but the best one is the one that is right above it, managing soil erosion. So by managing soil erosion, the chemicals, the fertilizers, anything that's been applied to the soil, if it's not eroding, it's less likely to get into the waterways. So that's a really, really good goal and the ultimate goal of this cover crop. So some other things that are in the goals list are to increase soil moisture. This is great for the cover crop itself while it's planted, but also mainly for that cash crop. So less precipitation is going to be needed, less irrigation if that's something that the farmer is doing. So increasing soil moisture is definitely a heavy goal of this one. Another thing is to improve nutrient cycling. That one kind of explains itself, but, you know, nutrients needed for the plants to grow. So in switching out a cover crop versus the cash crop is good to switch up the soil a little bit, balance the phosphorus and nitrogen ratios. For example, corn and rye. So corn would be the cash crop, rye would be the cover crop. Another goal of cash crop is to suppress weeds. So when a cash crop is harvested, there's barren dirt left there, then it's just kind of an area for weeds to grow. So by planting a cover crop, you're more likely to suppress the weeds and prevent it from being overtaken by weeds. Okay, so the benefits kind of tie in from the goals as far as weed suppression and prevention of soil nitrogen leaching, which is then again coming from the nutrient cycle. But having that cover crop reduces the erosion, reduces the nitrogen leaching, and overall reduces waterway pollution, which is our biggest goal. So there are some potential problems and barriers when it comes to the BMP of having a harvestable cover crop. So it is more complicated as far as management practices. You no longer have just one cash crop to be concerned with. It is now the cover crop as well, especially in a harvestable situation. They're worth money, so they also need lots of time, attention, money, resources, etc. Ties into the next one, there's less focus on just the cash crop. Say you are having a farm with a field of corn, and that's your main focus. And now you've brought in a harvestable cover crop of rye. So now the rye also needs time, effort, money, attention. So there is less of all those things for the cash crop. Having an additional crop is another time investment. So that presents an opportunity cost of what could you be doing with that land or that time or that money if you weren't planting the harvestable cover crop. I like to use the example of rye, but really it can be winter wheat, rye. There's lots of different options. So also a harvestable cover crop or cover crop in general is a huge financial investment. Startup costs are absurd. It does help if you've been in the farming business for a long time, but if this is a completely new thing to your farm, it may be a little bit difficult. Equipment, of course, is very expensive as far as harvesting in this situation, which we would need to do since it is harvestable and would likely be used for livestock feed. So thank you for listening to my presentation. Here are the three sources that I got most of my information from. Sustainable Agriculture Research and Education, Active Agriculture from Scandinavia, and the United States Department of Agriculture Economic Research Service. Thank you.