Corn Planting Depth #730 (Air Date 4/1/12)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4iHLhKgf85U
Education
 Our next topic is corn planting depth. Now we're right in front of some corn from last year so right before we started this little segment here Aaron goes hey I need to show this I bet I can so he just grabbed this old root mass from last year and you can see just about where the seed was planted last year right there. Yeah it was amazing this just happened to be laying there and this is one of the cool things. I don't know how many fields I get to a year where somebody tries to bluff me and I say well what'd you plant your corn at? Oh I planted at two inches that's what you say isn't it two and I'm like oh yeah two inches is pretty good in our area inch and a half to two and a half and they say oh yeah I had it at two inches and then I dig up some roots and I find oh you actually had it at three and a half inches or oh you actually had it at one inch. Well the problem though is when they have it at three and a half and then they have it at one then it's three and a half again then it's two then it's two and a half then it's one and a half I mean it's all over the place. But my point is I can tell where your corn planting depth was last year right now and I can tell where your corn planting depth is this year as soon as you plant it. From the day you plant it until next year when this residue finally breaks down and disappears I can tell exactly where you planted that corn. Yep and the reason why is because corn seeds are going to stay exactly where they're planted and the plant is going to grow out from there. It's different with soybean seeds. The soybean seed actually becomes the cotyledon leaves but with a corn seed it stays exactly where it was planted and it's that way with all grass crops. So any grass weed for example you dig down and you can find out exactly how deep that weed germinated at. So our question is how deep should you plant the corn and there is only one answer I don't care if your soil is wet I don't care if your soil is dry the answer is we'd like that corn planted at two inches deep. Now there's about a margin of error here a half inch either way inch and a half to two and a half inches so let's talk specifically about why we say two inches deep. When a corn seed first begins to grow the radical and seminal roots will grow down and that's to anchor the plant and to start feeding some nutrients in but the main root systems of that corn plant are going to come above the seed. So when you plant at an inch and a half deep you've got some room for that root system which is called the nodal roots. Now there will be five rings of nodal roots as your plant grows and those five rings will need at least three quarters of an inch of soil to be safe. Now once that seed starts to grow up the first part that grows up is called the mesocotyl and that mesocotyl will be at least three quarters of an inch long. Now if you plant deep let's say you plant it at three inches for example that mesocotyl is going to have to get longer to push that corn plant up and to get those root systems growing and to get a corn plant out of the ground. Yeah so like Darren's plant that he just pulled out of the field all I did is I just looked at it here and I can count one two three four five rings of nodal roots and that's in roughly we'll call it three quarters of an inch something like that and we've got the mesocotyl that hangs below there and the seed was just right below that. All we're saying is inch and a half that's the minimum planting depth because otherwise some of these rings of nodal roots some of those will start to come out above ground. That's a bad thing that's absolute yield loss guaranteed. So again planting depth on corn inch and a half to two and a half inches deep. Well we talk about an inch and a half to two and a half inches deep for corn but our Weed of the Week will germinate in the top half inch to maybe inch of soil. We'll show you how to stop it coming up next.