Southern Illinois Agronomy Observations
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4lJzIf6rx0U
Science & Technology
 Jeremiah Jones, Field Adronomist with Pioneer. Kelly Robertson, Granular CSA with Precision Crop Services. So Kelly, you and I have been talking the last three or four weeks about some observations that we're seeing out in the fields. We're starting to see a lot of problems crop up as a result of the wet spring we've had. So we've been talking about uneven stands we're seeing in corn and soybeans both. And a lot of those uneven stands first of all get attributed back to tillage done when it was too wet. So we're starting to see a lot of the results of tillage done wet, restricted layers caused by tillage, compaction and whatnot. Yes. So talking about that we're saying restricted root growth so we're seeing a lot of nutrient deficiencies showing up you know sulfur or nitrogen. So in addition to the tillage that was done too wet a lot of corn and soybeans were planted into wet conditions so we've got sidewalk compaction so we've got restricted root growth and as a result of that and the tillage the plants are just not able to get to the nutrients that are there. So we sidewalled in our nitrogen we got sidewall compaction there. Yeah we're seeing a lot of fields with pre-plant anhydrous that you can you can still see the the application pass at an angle through the field when you you can literally in some fields even after the anhydrous was applied and tillage was done you can still see where the anhydrous toolbar went through the field. When you dig into those areas what you're finding is a very restricted sidewalk compacted knife slot and so you see yellow plants that have a restricted root that can't get to the nitrogen and then you're seeing nitrogen still staying in that slot. So by no means is this the world ended but so what are we going to do about these problems? Well the the first problem is is going to be that there's going to be people that are going to come and tell you that you need to apply more nitrogen or that you need to put a foliar on to correct a nutrient deficiency or do something with an input to try to fix this and the first thing we want to recognize is is we're not going to fix these problems with any more of something. So adding more of a chemical or a fertilizer or anything is not going to fix a mechanical issue that we created early in the season. I know that in some of your updates I received from him you got a good statement it says what is goal. Yeah goal so that's our theme this year goal get out and look. Most problems can be avoided if you get out of the tractor cab get out in the field look at the tillage tool look at the soil look at the planter and not rely on a monitor or what you're seeing six feet above the ground in a glass bubble. So goal get out and look. And I would encourage you when you see these areas in the fields get out look at them look at imagery and if you have any questions please reach out to your local pioneer team. That concludes this Pioneer Agronomy video podcast. Visit our page on pioneer.com and follow us on Twitter and Facebook for more agronomy insights.