Day In My LIFE As 16-year-old FARMER |During Winter Months...
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4LNtssf0KOw
Education
 Good morning everyone. If you're new here, welcome. If you're not, welcome back. Today is a very cold morning. Yesterday it was extra cold on the farm. It seems we have a cold front moving through, which is not the best. But everyone has been okay so far. Also, if my voice sounds a bit off, it's because I have been recovering from a cold. So, just letting y'all know. Anyway, as you guys know by the title, today I will be taking you guys along with me as I start chores at 7 a.m., which is about right now. The sun just came up. And then all the way until I end the day at 10 p.m. So, without any further delay, we've got a lot of work to do. Let's get this day started. It's not funny. That was a rooster. Now I'm going to let the rest of them out. We do have approximately 60 chickens. They sent us more roosters than we actually bought. So, the sun is almost up and it is starting to get windy right now. I hope it's not too windy today because then it will be very cold. And we'll have to come out during the day and check waters because they just instantly freeze. So, I am praying it's not windy today. And just a quick little trick I use to keep me warm along with all the layers of clothes I'm wearing. We buy these little hand warmers. And let me tell you guys, they work wonders. Whether you put them in your boots or in your pockets, they really do the job. It's your milk bucket. Oh, good. Here. So, what happened was, because this pipe here froze and we had our heat lamps too high. Okay. And we had to heat rises. So, it was not getting the lower pipes. Right. And then we didn't fully mulch around the well house. So, I had to close in all the gaps around the well house so the air, the cold air draft, couldn't get under. Right. To get the floor cold. And then we moved all the lamps lower so it would hit those pipes. And now the heat rises for all these pipes. Yeah, yesterday we couldn't get water out of them. Yep. Good morning, girl. Hello. I'm going to check the thermostat right now in the barn. See how cold it is. It's 30-something degrees in here. So, here we have Miss Elias. She's our only mama in milk right now. But the next one that's going to be in milk soon is Miss Favor next month. So, I think we're going to have a Valentine's Day baby. But we'll see. I'm excited for that. Okay. I'm going to start setting up the milk cart. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay, so my mom and my older sister are bringing the Kubota in right now, and they're going to start cleaning out stalls because all the cows were in, and I'm going to start milking Elias. pathe plays came out Jose recepta wow haunting wait She's halfway milked out almost. Still got a little bit up there. Just making sure to massage her to get the rest of that milk out. Look at Bo drinking out of the milk bucket. You got your milk? Yeah. That goes for all the dogs. They always come here and get their milk. They all each have a turn. Today's Bo's turn to drink out of the milk bucket. Well, I gotta head up to the house and filter milk now. So, let's go. Hi, good morning. All we got is about to soak the milk up the milk bucket. The meal cover is designed to puerta in mom. It's the food in UCLA. Food in the oven. And even if we never have to eat a glass페al Internet card. Where are they? mu primer All right, now that I'm done with chickens, I'm going to head over to the barn, and I'm going to go help my older sister and my mom finish cleaning stalls. We let the cows out. They're already down. We might bring them back up if it gets really windy, but we're not for sure yet. All we got left in the barn is just to do shavings and hay, but before we finish, I'm going to go and fill the horse trough and the cow trough. The wind kind of died down, which is good. I'm hoping it'll stay that way. So my mom's just trying to warm up our four-wheeler right now because it won't start because it's frozen. Normally, we put our four-wheeler in the garage or up on the porch, but I think we forgot last night, so now we're dealing with a frozen engine on our four-wheeler. Now, our automatic cow trough down there stays insulated. Somehow, I don't know how, but it doesn't freeze. Crazy how that works. I have to make sure to get all the water out of these little hoses so they don't freeze too. All right. So if you guys watched my short from December, you guys would know we stocked this whole hay barn, and now we're more than halfway through hay. It's crazy. There's probably 20 bales left. Yeah. Okay. Only 20. And then we go through three a day. That's crazy. Three times seven is 21, so that's 21 bales a week. Yeah, that's wild. My older sister's going to sweep the barn, and I'm going to go help my mom get some shavings and put them in the stalls because they need more shavings. We have multiple bags of shavings that we bag ourselves, so it's pretty easy just to grab the big bag and put it in here and then go throw it in the stalls. Got it? Baby! So cute. Come here, Flo. Really, Flo? Okay. It is currently 11 o'clock right now. Just turned 11. We are practically done with the barn. We're just getting one more stall filled with shavings, and then it's complete. It tends to be a very busy morning when all the cows are in at night. So, other than that, the barn is complete. All right. Maddie's here. She's going to come help me dump a load from the barn, and we're going to bring the Kubota back up and park in. I'm going to bring her anytime. I'm going to bring her anytime. We're leaving now. We're keeping it on my seat. we got the barn done we dumped the load all that's done right now I have to go over and I have to go feed the horses I got to give them their meds and then we're gonna let them out so this is basically like Pepto-Bismol I use it for Pippin because she does have a diarrhea problem she gets this once a week and Scarlett just started having diarrhea so we're giving her some as well but Maddie is gonna help me she went down to go catch her and then we are gonna go from there and it doesn't taste bad either I just have to syringe it in her mouth because I don't think they like the texture if I put it in feed just one whole cup see it's already freezing all right now we're gonna feed them say who is that pretty girl all right everyone is eating I'm gonna head down and see if Pippin will walk up from the pasture and come get her food you gotta go through the gate go through the gate mama she does not want to walk all the way through the gate good girl it's currently 12 45 right now and I'm tired look at them oh my goodness there goes matrix and I took a little break I got all warmed up we actually started some yogurt but right about now I'm going out to feed pigs they get fed later so it's kind of like a lunch up good boy p của include Hello. Daddy Warbucks has been up in the pen for about two days now just because he keeps peeing in his bed for some reason. I don't know why. It's been very odd so we had to stick him out here. He's definitely holding a resentment against me though. Try to mix this up. A lot of y'all wanted an update on the baby piglets because I had posted a photo of them and they are just huge. I will say they are growing rapidly. I can't even believe it. They are already four months. We're trying to sell some of them and then we're going to erase some of them up. But yeah. Throw ice on it. They have a warm hose to use. Their waters are not frozen because these are water heater water bottles I guess. And they work really well when they're plugged in. Yesterday we had an incident where they weren't plugged in and they froze all the way in. So we had to bring them inside, put them in a nice hot water pot and literally thaw them out. But now that they're thawed, they're working well and definitely doing their job. first. She seems to be enjoying herself. You love it? Yeah mama? Yes. Yes. She says I'm beautiful. Look at me. Oh. It is currently three o'clock right now and I'm going to go to the well house and fill the chicken food cans and then I'm going to fill the chicken coop feeders. So I'm going to fill the chicken coop feeders. So If you'd like, I'll được a few times in order to be soMiıyor will be so negócio. So Look at them all snuggled up. Oh. Laria! Hey! Hey! Stop it! So stop it! Stop it! Okay. Oh no! So what we do with the calves during the day is we let JV and Gloria out for a short period of time. And then we let Angel and the twins out for another short period of time. So they each kind of get their own outside time during the day. Now I'm going to head down to the pasture and me and my elder sister Amanda are going to see how our big cows are doing. Here are all the girls. Also it is currently 3.55 at the moment. She's got feed so that's why she's all over her. Oh yeah girl get it. That sweatband look. Beautiful ladies. Alright it is currently 5 o'clock. The sun is setting. And me and my mom are going to head out to the cow pasture and put a bale out for them. That is where we are headed. farmers And me. hospitality excited I am the teacher. So, I am the gate opener. I am opening all the gates. It's a job. What is today? Today is Wednesday. I'm good at this. So, I'm going to do a little explanation on what is going on. So, when they're done with their round bale, we go and we put out a new one. But the excess hay that they had left under the round bale is used as their kind of like a bed out in the pasture now. And they love laying in that hay. So, that's what that's going to be used for. And we have another bale out and ready for the cows. And I got to go give the pigs a straw and bring cows up. And I got to go shut the horse gate because the horses already came in. They just come up at a certain hour. JB and Gloria are relaxing. I'm so excited. So, I'm just... I'm hoping for you to see a horse. And you will know the dog's name. But I'm not going to do anything. And you will see a bit the pigs. I did. So, let me go. They're gonna love that. Okay, all the pig straw is officially completed. Now I gotta quickly go out to the pasture and go get all the cows and bring them up in the barn for the night. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. All right. Everyone is in their stalls. Okay. Come on. in a little bit and milk the cows. And then my sister Sam's helped me put JB and Gloria up in their pen right now. I'm going to go check on her. Where is she? Alright, can you get another bucket of food? Yeah. She's a brat. Literally gave us a fight to go in. But she's always like that. Let me know if you have a crazy heifer. Dairy or beef. It doesn't matter. After a long day's work, we are always super duper hungry. So my dad ended up making sweet potatoes, steak, and some sort of green bean salad. And it was amazing. I don't know if it was just because I was hungry. But anyway, I had of course a glass of our raw milk. And it really hit the spot. I am just so very thankful that I get to have a plate of food sitting in front of me at the end of the day. And I get to sit around my family and that we're all safe. I just thank Yehua so much for all the blessings. There we go. Alright, let's head out to the barn and get some work done. I'm going to go first. It's got a really full bag. I am heading up with the milk cart and I'm going to go filter. I love how the barn lights up at night. That's my favorite thing. I got two gallons from Elias. I didn't even get a half gallon, which is weird. Anyway, I got two total. So that's it. I'm going to go put them in our cooler to rapid chill them. And then tonight we'll just put them away. Well, it is currently 945 right now. Everything's done. All the animals are closed up and asleep. Also, it is 12 degrees right now. Very cold. Thank you guys so much for watching. If you like this video, please give it a thumbs up and make sure you are subscribed. And I will see you guys in the next one. Bye, bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye.