Unknown Title
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4N42YPw2Xjo
Unknown Category
 Agriculture is the main source of livelihood in the rural areas of India. In Maharashtra, more than half of the population is dependent and engaged in agriculture. The state produces 12% of India's total fruit production and 7% of the country's total vegetable production. Despite these outputs, farmers are unable to benefit fully from horticulture as they lack access to adequate post-harvest facilities, finance and equipment. Women form a large part of agricultural labour force and play a significant role in production and post-harvest processing. Yet, they face several challenges. Sadly, they lack empowerment, representation, participation, land ownership, employment opportunities, productivity and training. To help farmers, including women, overcome these challenges, the Asian Development Bank and Maharashtra Department of Marketing and Textiles is initiating the Maharashtra Agribusiness Network project to support the development of the horticulture sector. Maharashtra Agribusiness Network project, we call it MAGNET, which is going to be implemented with the financial assistance of Asian Development Bank Manila by the Department of Agriculture, Marketing and Cooperation Government of Maharashtra. It is a project which is totally aligned with the government of Maharashtra's long-term vision. It's called Vision 2030. Under this Vision 2030, Maharashtra wishes to enhance the farm income, double it and also achieve an agricultural growth rate up to 5% per annum. Under this Vision, we wish to improve the quality and yield of horticulture and pluriculture crops. We wish to create quality infrastructure for storage and processing. We want to extend agriculture credit to all the farmers, especially horticulture farmers. The project aims to improve farmers' income, increase productivity and reduce losses in horticulture production. Farmers, especially women, will be trained on handling crops after harvest, selling their produce and new agricultural practices and technologies. Farmer organization and value chain operators, such as wholesalers and retailers, will have access to grants and loans, to develop post-harvest facilities and raise capital to improve their market activities. The project will upgrade existing post-harvest facilities and establish new ones to maintain the quality and freshness of the crops. Output 1 of the project focuses on capacity building of farmer producer organizations. Output 2 of the project focuses on enhancing access to finance. This would be achieved by providing matching grant and financial intermediaries and loan. Output 3 of the project focuses on improvement and development of 16 existing facilities of the Mara State Agriculture Marketing Board and also development of 3 new facilities. The project will work as value chain accelerator to offer crop-based support to develop FPOs and market their products with higher brand values. Magnet project directly targets 200 farmer producer organizations and 100 value chain operators to enhance their capacities and provide access to finance. The project will create 10,000 jobs benefiting women and vulnerable groups and increase farmer producer organizations annual profits by 10%. ADB will demonstrate value addition in exemplary rural and agricultural transformation in Maharashtra and Magnet is an integral part of ADB's holistic projects addressing rural and intercity connectivity, efficient energy supply, and sustainable shoreline management. The projectonductor oforar the Jane is a direct the property of leurple language bounds in them. According to Amanda Maran가요,