Saving Miller: How to control weeds without chemicals organic farming methods
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4nS2JlZ98xA
Pets & Animals
 Hi folks and welcome to Saving Miller. So today let's address the weed problem. We all have weeds on our properties and they're always going to be a challenge. There's just not a great way to deal with them. And so I have actually added to the challenge of dealing with the weeds by refusing to use any chemicals on them. Now I know some of you are going to say, well there's organic weed control. Well there is, but there's some issues with it. Most organic weed control does not deal with perennials, which is a problem for me with the nightshade and some of the grass. It tends to be either very acidic or very basic, or it might even just be really high in salts in order to poison the plants to kill them. Probably it works fairly well for emergent weed control, but then you're left with a lot of maybe very acidic soil or high salt content in your soil. And that may not be ideal over the long term if you plan to do something with that soil later on. So, really all that I'm left with is mechanical means. So let me show you a couple of the ways that you can deal with weeds. I mean the first, not great, but it's effective. You pull them. You know, pull the roots out. And that weed is done. And then you actually, since you already have your hands on it, it's not too difficult to put it on a pile somewhere. And then you can address it later by burning it or doing something like that. One method. Okay, second one. This is one that I've used a lot. Because it's pretty practical. It works. And I've got a lot of fence line here, as you can see. So, I do use this quite a bit. And it's effective to just address aesthetics, right? So it doesn't actually kill the weed, but it knocks it back. And if you do it at the right time, it allows the weed to go away. Gotta have the safety glasses. Okay. Well, there you go. You get splattered with all kinds of stuff. You know, it's fairly messy. And it works. It's probably the best way, the best non-chemical way, to deal with large weeds like this. They're well developed. They're going to go to seed soon. But by cutting them now, I should be able to interrupt that cycle so they don't come back. But, let me show you my favorite way to deal with weeds. Burn them. Not only do I get rid of them, it kills them. It reduces them so they basically just vanish after a couple of days. Plus, this is a lot of fun. And I get to play with fire. Let's check this out. So this is a propane torch. It's rated for 500,000 BTUs. And it's pretty aggressive. I made a mistake. I thought I was being prudent. But I made the mistake of saving $15 by not getting the one with an auto igniter. So if you do this, get the auto igniter. Don't do this. This is mildly terrifying every time. I'm going to get rid of them. I'm going to get rid of them. So there you have it. Now this does have some limitations. Let me show you what happened here. So here you can see the area that I just burned. And here you can see basically what it was like before. So, I mean, those little weeds are gone. So if you have a small, you know, weed that's just emerging like these, it works extremely well. They disappear and then they never mature. The added benefit of using the torch is that if you do have emergent seeds that are there just waiting to come out and haunt you, the torch will actually kill them. So that's a great way to go. I kind of like it. So I'm going to spend the afternoon doing that. Good luck with your weeds. Until next time, Saving Miller out.