Plant Life Cycle Facts For Kids
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4ODBlMzT9QE
Education
 Every plant begins as a tiny seed. It's like the plant's cozy bed. The seed has all the information it needs to grow into a big plant someday. The first part of a plant that comes out is called a sprout. And when the seed gets just the right amount of water, kind of like a drink, and the warmth of the Sun, it starts to change. It's like when you wake up after a really good night's sleep. A little shoot or sprout pokes out from the seed and soon little roots start growing down into the soil. And the roots are like the plant's feet, helping it stand and get water from the ground. As the shoot grows up, it turns into a little plant with leaves, like a baby plant. And those leaves reach and stretch out for the sunlight to make food for the plant. And those roots keep growing deeper to find water in the soil and hold the plant in place. Now the plant is like a small kid. The shoot grows up and starts to have little leaves. And just like you and I need to eat food, well plants need food too. They use a magic trick called photosynthesis. Plants use sunlight, water, and CO2 or carbon dioxide to make their food. And this process of making food is called... photosynthesis. The leaves use sunlight to turn sunlight into food. It's kind of like the plant's kitchen where it cooks its own meal. As days go by, the plant keeps getting bigger and bigger. It's like when you grow taller, more leaves and branches come out. The plant also drinks water from the ground using its roots. Just like you drink water to stay healthy. And when the plant is all grown up, it might start to make flowers. And flowers can be very colorful and also very pretty. They have a special job of making seeds. Bees and butterflies come to visit and they help the plant make new seeds. Inside the flowers there's something called pollen. Bees and butterflies come to visit the flowers and carry this pollen to other flowers. And this helps the plant make more seeds. After the flowers do their job, the plant starts to make seeds. And you can think of seeds like the plant's babies. They hold all of the information to make new plants just like their parent. And the plant can drop the seeds on the ground or let the wind carry them to new places. When the weather gets cold, some plants take a rest and go to sleep during the winter. It's kind of like when you curl up under a cozy warm blanket when it's cold outside. These plants wait for the warm sun to wake them back up again in the springtime. Some other plants only live for a season. And when it gets too cold, they die. But don't worry because their seeds start to process over again next year. And as the weather gets warmer, the seeds sprout and new plants begin to grow all over again. Well, hey, guess what? That is a plant's life story. And just like how you grow and change over time, so do plants. And just like how you grow and change over time, so I can get a new plant. And it's a new plant. Thanks for watching. Don't forget to smash that thumbs up button. It really helps out our channel. It sure does. Make sure you subscribe. Bye.