Stocking Up for the Future: Long Term Storage Food Haul
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4RaIIkRn414
People & Blogs
 I've been doing a lot of thinking about long-term food storage and emergency preparedness. If you want to go on that journey with me, keep watching this video. Hey garden friends, it's Chris from Gardening at the Simon Getty North located in central Northern Lower Michigan Zone 5B. And today I've just been doing a lot of thinking and watching a lot of homesteading videos on emergency preparedness and long-term food storage. So today I'm going to go into Saginaw, which is supposed to be snowing there right now. That's the south behind me. It's looking kind of dark, so hopefully I don't run into too many issues. But I'm going to go to the Sam's Club and buy some stuff in bulk. And then I'm also going to run over to Costco and buy some stuff in bulk. I just recently purchased a Sam's Club membership for only like 20 bucks. They were having a deal on it. I'll put it up in the corner. So if you're interested, it's only, I think going to last a couple more weeks. So yeah, $20 for anyone who's new. Well, I used to have a Sam's Club membership when I lived in Saginaw, but then when we moved up north, we got rid of it. But since they're having that $20 sale, I thought, well, heck, let's get it and go see what they got. So I'm going to drive down to Saginaw and I will show you what I end up picking up from Sam's Club. So here I am at Sam's Club and you can see it's snowing here. It was raining probably most of the way and now it has turned to snow. So I'm going to go inside and go see what I can find. Let's go along. So Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. So here's my haul, haul in the back of the car. Last year, I didn't work for the first two and a half months of 2022 and the last half. So I was basically off five months, you know, without an income. So, you know, it's not always, you know, necessary, you know, that it's for the end of the world, but it could be. But also my husband was in a motorcycle accident back in April and we were without his income for at least three months. And, you know, he's been slowly getting back to work and he's doing definitely a lot better, still has a lot of healing. But, you know, it's a good thing, you know, to have backup food supply. So now I'm going to run over to Costco and see what damage I can do there. Okay, I'm here at Costco now. Let's go in and see what kind of damage I can do here. Let's go in and see what happens here. Let's go in and see what happens here. Let's go in and see what happens here. Let's go in and see what happens here. Let's go in and see what happens here. Let's go in and see what happens here. Let's go in and see what happens here. I usually get the purple, but they're all out. They're $4.99. This is a good deal. These are made in Michigan, Traverse City. What happens here? I'm sorry. It's a good deal. I'm sorry. It's a good deal. It's so good. It's good. It's so good. I'm not kidding. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Otherwise I'd get some. So we're all Michigan honey. I already have two, so $13.49 for three pounds. $6.99 for two pounds of Red Star Active Yeast. Use flower. King Arthur All Purpose for $9.49. Two 10-pound bags of All Purpose. Kirkland Flower for $17.99. I already got two of those and I just bought a whole bunch of flower from Sam's. Brown Sugar. $5.79 for seven pounds. Brown Sugar. $5.79 for seven pounds. $5.79 for seven pounds. Powdered Sugar. $5.79 for seven pounds. And then organic cane sugar for $9.49. That's 10 pounds. How about this? And again, she needs a 20illed home season. So. She knows what to do. Then what do the 320 are? Wetheyan I don't know! We got a lot of armor And we also have the ultimate hai That is why it's like my love We don't have to be explored On the left, this is what happened only ten fifteen pounds noise Let's see, I bought this race at Sam's. Costco is $19.49. I'll have to see what my cost was from Sam's Club. I packaged up this rice already. It was good too. Tried it. I'll try some of those. Alright, I think I better get out of here. Oh, that was more than I planned. Time to check out of Costco. Here we go, out into the snow. Here at the Costco in Midland. I just spent a small fortune at both places, but we should be stocked up for a while. Heading to the car. Some of us are going to have to go in the back seat because I don't have any room. So we'll get back home and then we'll show you everything I got. Or most of it anyway. So here's all, most of the stuff from Costco. I did get some in the back, but most of it is in the back seat. Alright, let's go home. So here's my haul combination from Sam's Club and Costco. This fried bean salad is good for pantry stores just like any other canned foods and it's a nice treat to have. I got the powdered sugar. I got the rice. I got the Morton's iodized salt because you gotta definitely have some iodized salt every once in a while and not just the pink Himalayan. And then a big thing of Hershey's cocoa and the tall house. Semi-sweet chocolates and this egg noodles. This pasta here. I got two bags of this. I'm going to store them in containers. I got more pasta that I can store in containers. I got the corn flakes. That's so we can make the Christmas cookie wreaths with the marshmallows. And then look at this baking soda. That thing is huge. You can use baking soda for all sorts of things. For cleaning. Not just for cooking. So it's good to have something like that. And then I got some poultry gravy mix and some brown gravy mix. I wanted Belle to do meals in jars where you can get all the air out of it by using the sealer with your food, like your food saver attachment. And then I have some Hungry Jack potatoes, a dehydrated. And just, you know, some yeast to be able to make bread. And that's baking powder. Some more yeast. Some Lipton's onion soup mix. You can use that for different things. Brown sugar. I got a 25-pound bag of all-purpose flour. And then batteries. You definitely want to have an assortment of batteries if it's just for when the power goes out or when the grandkids' Christmas presents are coming or just for everyday use and also for emergency preparedness. Costco had these bags, starter kit. It has the different rolls and some pre-made bags. This was $19.99 for this variety pack. So I've been definitely, I've been using my food saver a lot more and we're going to definitely use it more. And then butter. You can store butter in the freezer. So I buy it and then put it in the freezer and then swap it out. So you use first in, first out method with all your stuff. So I will do a video and show you how I'm going to store all this stuff. So watch for that video coming out. And yeah. It's a lot of stuff here. But some of this stuff was things I needed for right now. And then some of this stuff is for long-term storage. And then rotating it out as we use it. So once we get low on something, I'll go and replenish it. And yeah. So there's a lot of meals here with this pasta. You know, there's six different kinds in here and in this one. This is six boxes of elbows, six boxes of thin, and this is a six pack of pasta. You can just keep these in their containers the way they are. Just date them when you bought them. And then put them in a cool dark place. Preferably in a container where critters can't get in them. And this will last for a long time. You can just rotate. You know, make sure you rotate your stuff. So, you know, first in, first out. So with the pasta, my husband and I usually eat about a pound between us. Sometimes with the little leftovers. So this is at least 35 meals right here with the pasta right here. And then I also have the other two bags over here. And the rice here. This is a 20-pound bag. I'll put the price difference between Costco and Sam's Club because I don't remember offhand what I paid for at which place and how much it was at the other. So I'll put that up in the corner. And then here's another 25-pound bag. You know, with just me and my husband, one cup of rice actually is enough for a meal for us. So I just packaged another 20-pound bag of rice. And I got 41 one-cup packages. So that was like 41 meals. But these, I think I am going to clean out one of my five-gallon buckets that I have a gamma lid on. And store that right in there. And this one here. And along with this flour. This is 25 pounds of flour. I will also put that in one of my five-gallon buckets. And then there's the sugar down below the domino sugar. I will also put that in a five-gallon bucket. I have six five-gallon buckets that I haven't used yet. And these potatoes. I plan on doing like meals in a jar with these. I'm looking to see what they're. Oh, here it is. It says best by October 2nd of 2024 for this one. But I think if you put them in an airtight container, they'll last even longer. This one says by August 2024. And then you just make meals in a jar. You know, for, you know, when those nights that you just don't have the time or don't feel like cooking. You already have it ready to go. You just throw it in a pot with some water. Or throw it in the oven. Whatever it is. But I'm planning on doing some Christmas cookie baking. So we definitely got all the stuff for that. This is good for making pumpkin pie. And making key lime fudge. Or even chocolate fudge. Real vanilla extract. I only buy real vanilla extract. And then there was another one at Costco. So I bought this one too. Here's the baking soda. I believe this says best use date by 11, 2026. But I think it goes longer than that. It's got a resealable bag here. 100 plus uses. So it's not just for baking. So it's good to stock up on some of this as well. And this pasta here, there's two of them. Three and a half pounds each. So there's seven pounds of pasta between these two bags here. So there's seven meals. So when you decide to go out shopping in bulk and for long-term storage, you don't have to spend as much as I did. You can do, you know, do a gradual, you know, a little bit at a time. Each time you go shopping, you know, things are on sale. Just pick up a few extra things. I don't get to Saginaw or Midland very often. So I kind of do like a big bang. And then I don't go there again for a while. So you can definitely, you know, just continue to pick up a few things here and there and start your journey in long-term food storage and emergency preparedness. So I hope you found this video helpful with thinking about doing long-term food storage for yourself. Let me know if you're going to start doing it or if you already just started. I'm kind of a newbie at this as well. So I'm just kind of learning as I go and thought I'd take you along and show you my journey and my long-term food storage and emergency preparedness. Thank you for stopping by. Live, love, laugh, and garden. Hope to see you at the next video. God bless. Bye. Bye-bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye.