Discover the Agricultural Economics major
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4V33p95k8Z8
Science & Technology
 Agricultural economics is an applied social science and quite simply it's economics applied to agriculture but it's so much more. Economics is core to any agriculture degree because economics is an integrating discipline. It helps us to understand the relationships within a system and between systems. Our students learn not only the theory, they learn how an economist thinks about issues like climate change, feeding the world, running out of resources, biosecurity but in addition to that our students also learn skills like how to do a social benefit cost analysis, how to do investment analysis, value chain mapping, price risk management and risk analysis to name a few. Agricultural economics is important because whenever we make a decision we use economics. Resources are scarce, we have to make decisions about what to produce, how to produce it, how much to produce and who to produce it for. So we need to make decisions and economics is really powerful because it organises information into a form that a decision can be made. Now we're in a time of rapid change. We've got globalisation of markets, we've got advances in technology, we've got a changing climate and the need for agricultural economists is as great as it's ever been. I think studying agricultural economics in the Bachelor of Agriculture at the University of Melbourne is worthwhile because of the teaching team, our excellent facilities and our industry contacts. Our teaching team are all teaching and research academics. So we're not only teaching you but we're actually applying what we're teaching you in our research. So we're doing projects across Australia, Asia and the Pacific and we bring those examples of our research into the classroom. We're all passionate and we've all devoted our careers to agricultural economics. This major is unique because a lot of our problems and the assignments, the tutorial exercises, the assignments are all case study based. We go on field trips in some of our subjects. They're all real world based problems that students solve either as a tutorial exercise or as an exam question or as an assignment question. The students who leave our major walk away with real world practical skills. Our graduates go into a diverse range of careers from farm level, government, research, consultancy, banking sector. Our graduates have gone into jobs into say research consultancy like RMCG or Deloitte's. I think the market generally for agricultural graduates is huge for the reasons of increased need of food and fibre needing to deal with climate change and rapid technological advancement. And understanding economics gives us the frameworks to be able to evaluate the best way to use our scarce resources to tackle these wicked problems.