Good Agronomy Practices
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4wxneAdIr8A
Gaming
 My name is John Barsera, Citgo Head of Agronomy Services. We will be taking you through the GAPs or the Good Agronomy Practices series, whereby we are giving much needed technical support or technical expertise to our farmers on how best to produce food crops, be it mails, be it soya beans, be it small grains, that is so gum. Cow peas and so on. To kick off this series, let me start with the adage or a principle which guides us at Citgo. That is, there are a thousand reasons for low yields, but there are only two good reasons for high yields. That is, Citgo seed, number one, as well as good agronomic practices. So, farmers need to take cognizance of those two points for successful crop production. Now, let me go into our topic today, preparations for the season. We encourage our farmers to prepare because at the end of the day, we want them to have a very good establishment in terms of mails production, in terms of soybean production and small grains and other crops. We also recommend that farmers will provide the crop establishments, crop establishments will contribute significantly to the success story of the farmer, because that is where the game begins, that is where the yield game begins. Now, our farmers need to make sure that they are apt with their land preparation, we mean deep plowing if there is need. Number two, we also mean secondary tillage, that is disc harrowing, to prepare the soil to a fine tilt. And we also recommend that farmers should concurrently, with the disc harrowing, pull what you call rollers, so that we achieve that fine tilt. It is very, very important. But also, let me point out the issue of soil conditioning. It's very, very critical that we attend to our soil with regards to the soil condition, that is the pH especially. pH is a measure of the quality of our soils, and we need to make sure that we assemble our soils for testing and analysis. And then from there, we can get some recommendations or prescriptions on how to address or on how to condition the soil. At the end of the day, we want a soil with an optimum pH range of between 6 and 6.8. That is for most of the food crops which are grown in summer. So farmers, that's it for now. Be sure to watch the next episode in the series. Thank you.