Unknown Title
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5am4ZjEZ4wc
Unknown Category
 Hello and good morning on a Saturday morning. I am super glad that you guys have joined me here today. I cannot believe how many of you have showed up already to watch this about bleach. It's one of the questions that I get asked the most and I'm super excited that we get to have this conversation here today. Now one of the things that I'm most famous for is giving you tips and techniques and today I'm going to give you the tools and hopefully I can go through every single one of the tools that we have that are linked below so that I can explain to you why we use them and then how to use them properly and then answer any of the questions that you guys have. So before we get started I am going to play a pre-recorded snippet and the snippet is going to show you how we use bleach. It's going to answer a lot of questions up front. It's also going to probably spark some questions for you and so my goal for you is that we get all of your questions answered in the short time that we have here today. I really respect your time and especially that you showed up on a Saturday morning so I'm honored. I'm delighted to get to spend this time with you and so we will jump over and we will watch that pre-recorded clip now and then I will jump back in and we will answer your questions and we'll rock and roll through this whole thing. So here we go. Don't do it very often but when you do you want to make sure you have all the personal protective equipment that you need and that you have a proper system in place and that once it's clean we're going to maintain it with just regular everyday cleaning chemicals and we don't need really strong cleaning chemicals most of the time. But if you do have a shower like the one we're going to clean today we do need bleach and here is the process. The first thing we're going to do is start with personal protective equipment. I've got a bib apron on that covers all of my clothing to protect it from any spray. We're going to be using a spray bottle from any spray getting on my clothing and then also my shoes. So as part of our personal protective equipment we are going to wear shoe covers. Now we never wear shoe covers in the shower except when we're using bleach and that way it keeps it from getting on our shoes. We're also going to wear a pair of gloves. The gloves are going to keep any spray from getting on our hands and we are going to wear a face mask to protect us from breathing in any fumes. Now quick tip, once you are ready to spray you're going to hold your breath while you're spraying. When you have to take a breath dip out of the shower take room temperature breathing because it's an enclosed space and if you breathe in the fumes it will make your eyes red and it will be hard on your breathing. Okay? So we are still going to wear a face mask but we're going to breathe outside the shower. When we spray we're going to hold our breath inside the shower. Okay. All right next thing is I have personal protective glasses that I'm going to wear. This will keep any spray from getting inside my eyes. All right so now that we are personally protected for climbing inside our shower before we do we're going to remove the bath mat. If in the event we end up spraying anything on the floor and then we step out onto the bath mat it's going to ruin that bath mat. So we want to make sure we remove the bath mat before we climb inside the shower. Now once the bath mat is removed I have two terry cloths and these terry cloths are folded in half. I'm just going to lay one down right where I'm going to step out. So my foot will step on one of these on each side as I climb outside the shower. Okay? And I will have my shoe covers on but anything that touched the shoe covers I don't want to transfer that onto the floor and I don't want to transfer it onto the customer's carpet or anywhere else in their house. So as I step out of the shower if I have bleach on my feet I'm going to step on a terry cloth the shoe covers are going to come off. I'm going to wipe off the bottoms of my shoes then we're going to be good to go. All right the next thing I have is a great big old bath towel and you say what is the bath towel for? Well we're going to use ozone for this project and this is an ozone generator right here. The ozone has three oxygen atoms that are connected to it. So it's a molecule of a light blue gas and ozone is also known as smog and so what's going to happen with this ozone generator is once we spray the bathroom down we're going to have a lot of fumes inside the bathroom. So we're going to let ozone go into the air and create a pocket of ozone around my bathroom and then it's going to decompose all of the bleach smell and then once all the fumes and all the smells are gone then we're going to go back in and we're going to clean the bathroom. Okay? So we're going to spray it first we're going to leave for about an hour and a half. That's where this bath towel comes in. So what I'm going to do in order to keep ozone and bleach fumes from circulating throughout the house we're going to turn off the air conditioning and we're going to turn off the heat and we're going to turn off the ventilation. So we're just going to create a packet of ozone and bleach inside the bathroom. All right, here's where the bath mat comes in. I don't want any person plant or pet inside my ozone chamber. So I'm going to take my bath towel and I'm going to open it up and I'm going to roll it sideways and I'm going to plant it below the bottom of the door and that way when I close the bathroom doors and it's on the bottom of the door no ozone can escape. And I'm going to turn the ozone machine on. This is perfect for a master bath. It has a timer on it and I'm going to set the timer for 30 minutes. So 30 minutes of ozone. Then once the ozone dies down I'm going to let it set for about an hour and that way all the ozone can disintegrate out of the air. Okay, now for the bleach part. We're going to climb inside the shower. We're going to spray the bleach and this is just an empty bottle. I've just got regular straight bleach. The regular straight bleach goes inside the bottle. We're not diluting it. We're going to use it full strength. Okay. The full strength is what's going to make your eyes turn red if for any reason you don't wear the glasses and you're inside breathing the fumes. Okay. So this is the reason that we're going to do such personal protective equipment and then also our spray. All right. So once we have the spray, we're going to spray the shower from top to bottom and we're going to let it just set. We're not going to agitate it. We're not going to scrub it. We're not going to anything. We're just going to spray the entire shower down. Okay. There's a catch. The only part of the shower that we're not going to spray is all of the hardware. That's the faucet. That's the faucet head and it's the rim around the glass because we don't want our bleach to eat all that up. Okay. So no hardware and no chrome or no bronze or anything gets sprayed with the bleach. We're going to come in after we're done and we're going to use a steamer for that. Now in chemical safety, we know that we can't mix anything at all with bleach. So we're not going to come in with another cleaner after we're done. We're going to come in, we're going to hose the whole shower down and we're going to be done with all the bleach. Once we're done with the bleach, we're going to come in with a steamer. This is just water. Okay. Taft water we're going to use on the shower itself. Now in order to clean the glass, because we have not sprayed the glass with bleach, what we're going to do is just use a steamer pad and we're going to use steam and we're going to clean the walls with the steamer pad. Then we're going to clean the grout with the steamer. And you'll notice on the steamer, there's a little tiny head. It's very skinny that will fit with the grout. And so with the grout, we're just going to go up and down very lightly, very easily with the steam. And then we're going to go ahead and steam the rest of the walls down. We're going to squeegee the wall down. We're going to scrape all the water towards the center of the floor and we're going to be done with our shower. So instead of it taking us hours to do, we're going to do this setup, which is going to take a couple of minutes. Then we're going to let the chemicals and the bleach do all its work. Then we're going to go clean the rest of the house. When we come back, everything will be nice and tidy, but we'll wash everything down and then we'll just do the steamer. Quick, quick steam up job. And then we're going to be done with the project. And then we can go ahead and clean the regular bathroom. It was just a regular bathroom. So we still have the bathroom to do. But here's the secret. When you go to a customer's house, if you're a professional house cleaner, you're going to do this process at the very first of the job. That way you can be cleaning the rest of the house. Then when you come back, the bleach and the ozone will have already done its job. And then you can go ahead and clean the bathroom just as you would normally clean the bathroom. And the whole bathroom is not a deep clean project. All right. So I hope that set the stage and we did get some excellent questions that came in. So thank you so much for your participation. This one is from Laura and she says, so straight bleach will just clean my soap scum. Let's be very clear about what bleach is. Bleach, and this is the one that I'm referring to today. And there are different brands of bleach and stuff on the market, but this is the one that we're going to reference today. Bleach is not a cleaner. Bleach is a disinfectant. And so we're going to treat the bathroom after we do the bleach. So the bleach is going to be like the first step. And the reason we're going to do this is because if you are a house cleaner, and I don't know, are you guys house cleaners or you guys homeowners? If you're a professional house cleaner, type house cleaner in the comments. If you are an Airbnb host and you sanitize between guests, type Airbnb host in the comments. And if you are a homeowner, type the word homeowner, and then I will kind of know who's here. And then we can guide our comments toward that. But if you are a professional house cleaner and you show up at a customer's house and you're doing a walkthrough, when you get to the customer's house and you walk in the bathroom and you see like a really icky bathtub and it has the soap scum and it has the buildup, or maybe the tub has backed up and there's like all this gunk in the tub. The first question we want to ask is how did it get that way? And so once we determine how did it get that way, it will help us determine what the gunk actually is. So if it's soap scum, that we're probably going to use a degreaser for, right? Because the soap scum is what comes from body proteins and it comes off our bodies. It is the gunk, the dirt, the germs that we have that we've washed down the drain. It's other soap products that we've used, either shampoo or conditioner or things like that, that have mixed with water and they either set on the side of the walls or they splashed on the sides of the walls and then they got stuck because they weren't rinsed off properly. So once we know what we're looking at, that's going to help us determine how exactly we clean it. Now, if you go into a customer's home and the tub is backed up, and I say the tub is backed up, you usually see a ring around the tub. And what that suggests is that there's hair clogged in the drain. And so as the water was trying to go down the drain, it did not drain properly. Therefore it backed up and it created that soap scum where there's body proteins and dirt and grime and shampoo and stuff like that, that has settled in the tub and then it slowly drained. And as it drained, it didn't have a chance to rinse off the sides of the tub or the shower. Therefore it's stuck in the bottom. So if that's what we have, we may have to use a D-clogger, which also has a really potent smell. So if you are in a shower, for example, and the one that we just looked at had some of that serratia marcessans, which we call pink slime, and that is very toxic to our bodies. And we don't want that in our showers at all. And that's where the bleach comes in. So once you're aware of what it is, you might just determine that you are going to use bleach. Now we do not use bleach very often. I want to make it very, very clear that bleach is a specialty product. It's used for special cleaning situations. Okay. And I have links below so that you can see what I'm talking about. But I really want us to be aware this is a specialty product and should be treated with the utmost respect. And we can't get mad at bleach for what it does because it's very strong and it's very designed for a very specific use. I want to stop for a second and say that for every chemical that exists on the market, there's what's called a safety data sheet. And that is designed by the globally harmonized system. And it's now mandated. It's worldwide. Every chemical must be provided by the manufacturer sheet. There are 16 sections on the sheet. And the very first section will tell you the manufacturer and their phone number. And if you have any questions about the product whatsoever, you can call the manufacturer and there's like a chemical safety person that will answer the phone and they will answer your questions. So that's always really good to know. The second thing that's really important to know is if there are any hazards associated with the product, it will also tell you that as well. And that's in section number two of the 16 sections. If you go to section number nine, it will tell you where on the pH scale the product lies. Now, seven is right in the middle and that's neutral. Zero is all the way over to the side. And those are going to be your acids all the way over to your side on 14. That's going to be your alkalines. So we have acids, neutral, and then alkalines. And so every number you go from seven in any direction, it's going to be 10 times stronger than the number before. So number eight is 10 times stronger than number seven. Number nine is 10 times stronger than number eight, right? All the way down. Bleach. This particular bottle of bleach is 12.5 on the pH scale. So that is really, really, really strong. We're not talking about just a couple numbers away from seven. We're talking about a couple of thousand numbers away from seven, right? It's very strong on the logarithmic scale. All right. So that said, how do we use bleach? When do we use it? Why do we use it? I know it gets really kind of like, should we use it at all? It does have a purpose. And so if you know how to use it, you're not going to be scared when you do use it. So a couple of things that I want to talk about while we're still talking about bleach is bleach first and foremost, I don't know if you ever noticed this or not, but it comes in a jar that you cannot see through. And this is to protect it from sunlight so that it stays stable. So even if you pour it into another container, it must also be a non-see-through container, just like hydrogen peroxide, for example, comes in that brown container. That's a plastic container that you cannot see through. It's to prevent sunlight from coming through. So all bleach containers will come in this really durable, thick plastic. It's not a regular plastic container. This is a heavy duty, durable plastic that it won't eat through and that also the sun can't see through. Did you know that? That's a fun fact, right? How cool is that? Okay. So the next thing that's really interesting about bleach is most of the time, depending on the size of the jug and really, really every bleach container that I've purchased has this wide lid that is typical of gallon jugs. So if you are using this for regular cleaning, and we saw a lot of people using this for regular cleaning during the pandemic, and I don't mean to clean things, but to sanitize and disinfect after they've cleaned things. So it was a two-step process. But what they did then is they were asking lots of questions on how do I measure the bleach, right? How do I know that I got the right amount of bleach? So that's a really great question. So in the links here, let me see if I can find this. There is a, there's a, and let me remove this here. Where is that question? I've got homeowners here. I've got house cleaners. Hey, Nick. Hey, Anna. This is so exciting. If you guys will type in queue before your question, then I will know if you're just saying hi to me. And those of you that have questions, because I do want to come back and I want to answer all your questions. We've got house cleaners in the room. We've got Airbnb hosts. We have lots of homeowners. This is so awesome. So I'm super excited. All right. So this is a pump spray that we use in professional house cleaning. And the cool part about this is, is this little adapter right here holds one ounce of Clorox or one ounce of cleaning solution. So if we buy any of our concentrates or we buy a gallon container, which is what we have here, you can just remove this lid and you can put this in here and one pump will be one ounce. And so if we have a 32 ounce container, let's say that we were going to use this, this is the one that we used in the demo. This is 32 ounces. So three pumps would be one part to 10 ounces of water. And so that's how we would do it for a 32 ounce container. We would do three pumps and that's for regular sanitizing, disinfecting spray. So if you were going to use it to disinfect, like we did during the pandemic, you would use three pumps to a 32 ounce container. And so this is very helpful for measuring. But the thing that I like best about this is it's scalable. And so if we have employees, for example, that we have sent out to do their own measuring of cleaning chemicals, we don't want them to use it straight if they're going to use it as a disinfecting spray for flat surfaces, for example. Right. So we want to make sure that it's measured properly. So that's the reason why I included this here. Also, these are kind of hard to find. And so I'm really keen on having these. And so I just wanted to recommend these to you. If you have a jug and you'll notice that this one where the lid goes, it's a little bit longer than the jug itself. Because this is plastic, you can just cut that off so that it matches the size of your jug and still reaches to the bottom. So there's a helpful tip right there. All right. So the next thing about the bleach, when we're using the bleach, if we're using it to clean out a shower, like the one that I mentioned, when you get to a customer's house, the very first thing that we're going to do, like, let's say that this is the first time that you've cleaned the house. And if you don't use bleach, and you don't have a system, you're probably going to end up spending a lot of time and energy going through the house, making sure that you are cleaning the house, doing a regular maintenance or deep clean. And then you're going to end up spending a lot of time, maybe an hour or so trying to clean those icky showers. So the very first thing that you want to do is you want to budget your time properly, because time is money, right? So the first thing we're going to do is we're going to treat with bleach, then we're going to get out of the room, and then we're going to go clean the rest of the house while the bleach is doing its job. And so the first thing that we're going to do is we are going to use straight bleach if you have a really icky shower. Now what we're looking for in the shower is we're looking for mold, and we're looking for that pink slime. And so if there's anything that's stuck on the bottom that's just like really nasty, and you're like, oh no, it's going to take me an hour to clean the shower, and you'll start recognizing after a minute, like it's one of those showers. Okay, the first thing that we're going to do is we're going to go to the sink in the bathroom, to the sink in the bathroom, and over the sink, we're going to pour the Clorox or pour the bleach into a spray bottle that we can use. And I do have, and I do recommend, a funnel. The funnel, the purpose of the funnel is that we will not spill it on the customer's countertops or, I don't know, on ourselves or any of those things. This is a regular funnel, and I just cut the end off so that it flows quicker through the jar instead of, it comes down to a little tiny point. And it then takes forever to put it inside. But when we're done with this, remember how I said we can't leave it inside the container? We're not even going to take it out of the bathroom inside this container. So what we're going to do is we're going to take this to the customer's house just like this. It's got a lock lid on it, so it's not going to spill in our car. It's not going to spill in the cleaning caddy. And I think this is the only product that we actually carry in its original container to the customer's house. All the other chemicals can be mixed in our inventory and we just take a bottle of spray or whatever. So many things have happened and I don't want to run the risk of the lid coming off or this leaking in your caddy or it getting dumped over or anything. And I will stop for a second and say these are phenomenal spray bottles. And they've got the lock lid where you just unscrew it and it can go from spray to stream depending on what you need. So I really like the container, but we don't want to leave it inside the bottle for a couple of reasons. If we leave it inside the bottle around the edge where we have sprayed, it's going to crystallize. And it's going to crystallize on the inside where it gets sucked up the hose and into the sprayer just because of the nature of what bleach is. So then when you go to spray it next time, you're going to do the pump thing 20 times and nothing's going to come out. Not only that, but because sunlight has gotten through your bottle, if you leave the bleach inside the bottle, it will have oxidized some and it will not be effective. And then you'll be using your bleach and you'll be going like, well, I just used it the other day. How come it's not working? That's why it's not working. And so you want to make sure that when you are done spraying, that you pour it back inside the bottle. Now, the exception is you can wait until it does its job. When you come back in the bathroom, because we're going to leave the bathroom while it does its job, you can just leave it inside here for a minute. When you come back, then you will pour it in before you go to the next step of cleaning. So these are our tools for that icky, icky, icky bathtub. Okay. I'm glad we got that taken care of. Okay. Now, another thing that I want to mention while I'm on the bottles before I move on, and I should mention this. If you're using a bottle like this, nobody except you knows what's inside. And I really want to stop for a second and say that responsible cleaning means that you need to label all of your containers. And because we're going to be the only one in the bathroom and we're going to be the only one pouring this in here. It's okay if we don't label it for this one job. Before we leave the bathroom, we're going to empty this out back into the original container. And we're only using straight bleach. So it's not diluted with anything. Okay. But for your other bottles, and this is a note for your other bottles, for your other bottles, we need to have a label. And this needs to be in your care, custody and control 100% of the time. If someone else takes the lid off and they dump this out and they pour something else in, whatever is inside the bottle that you use, whether you're a homeowner or an Airbnb host or professional house cleaner, whatever is in your hand, if you sprayed it, it's inside your care, custody and control. And if you sprayed something and somebody switched out the chemicals on you, the insurance company will not cover it if there's property damage. And that's because you are in control of your chemicals. So I cannot stress the importance enough of you got to know what's inside your bottles. And I love these bottles because we do use lots of concentrates as professionals. And so as professionals, this is a bathroom product that we use, but I have a label here. And we use a lot of the Otoban products and Otoban is phenomenal where they provide the labels for you on their website. You just download them, print them, and then put packing tape over it and tape them on your containers. And you'll notice that here, if you look up closely, this is the dilution ratio. So if I have a 16 ounce container, I have one of these pump sprays. And if I'm doing a heavy duty cleaning, check it out, this is where it gets exciting. Then I would check this box, which is, I have it, I have it here for, for the 32. So is it one ounce for 16 or is it one ounce for 32? So you have a choice. And so by doing that, this is the heavy duty version because it's only, this would be two pumps for 32 ounce, right? And then one for 32 would be for your maintenance clean. So you can use the same chemical for maintenance or deep clean. All right. That leads me to my next topic. When we're cleaning a bathroom with bleach, that's going to be considered a deep clean or a special product, a special project that is not a maintenance clean. Okay. On a maintenance clean, we do not bring the bleach into people's houses. That's a special product. It's a special job. It's a special everything. And you need special personal protective equipment when you use it. And so we are not going to bring bleach with us on a regular maintenance clean. Got it. Okay, cool. All right. Now that said for maintenance cleaning, we'll talk about that after I answer some of your questions. And we do have some questions here, which I'm super excited to answer. Thank you guys so much. Smoky Stormwind says, I would recommend using some sort of a mask, N95, a respirator and safety glasses if you plan to use a spray bottle for bleach. Also clean the spray bottle with soap and water to stop the pump from getting blocked. Yes, all of those apply. All of those apply. Now, if for any reason you decide that you don't have respirators and you're not using the N95, you can use a regular mask. This is not going to protect you from fumes. Okay. What we're going to do is this. If you go inside a bathroom, this is on a deep clean, you're going to go in a bathroom and you have one shower, one icky shower. Spraying it down is going to take you about 60 seconds. That's it. 60 seconds. So what we're going to do is we're going to put the mask on and the mask is for us. The mask is to remind us that we are inside a shower. And while we have it on, we are not going to breathe. You're going to dump yourself inside the shower. You're going to grab your spray. You're going to hold your breath and you're going to spray the shower down. You're going to step out of the shower. You're going to turn your head and take a breath, but you're not going to be breathing the fumes inside the shower because it's a really tight, tiny, closed space, right? Then you're going to get out of the bathroom. So for 60 seconds, most house cleaners, and the reason that I say this is most house cleaners will not carry big respirator masks with the big, you know, we're not, we're not going to be spending all day in there. We're going to spend less than 60 seconds spraying the walls down and then we're going to bolt. Okay. So it's going to be quick in, quick out, and we're done. All right. And I love this question because we do have to think about safety, protective equipment. One of the things that, Anne says, Odoban, what is your experience with this cleaner? It smells nice. And it says disinfect, but being a bleach fan, I'm doubtful. Okay. So it does do a phenomenal job for disinfecting. And I think Odoban is one of the few products on the market that is grossly miss marketed. They're a phenomenal company. They've been around for 30 years. They are, all of their stuff meets all of the EPA regulations, and it is on the Safer Choice. Most of their products are on the safety choice. What is it? Safer, Safer Choice products that are registered by the EPA and the AP EPA. When they register those products, they don't just register the regular product. They register every single ingredient of those products. And then they determine whether or not it meets its competitors' brands that have more toxic fumes and stuff like that. Odoban is a phenomenal product. Today, we just happen to be talking about bleach. And because bleach will like bleach your clothes and it stains things and, you know, people are scared of it and it smells bad and all that stuff. And I'm not knocking the product because there's a very good use for it. And when used properly, you can be safe. All right. So that said, Denise said, I'll jump in here real quick. Denise said, former custodian and homemaker now, wear a white t-shirt if you can to prevent bleach stains. Absolutely label. Put it on a high shelf. Yeah, that's a great, a great suggestion. And if you are a homeowner and you have that ability, that's awesome. Some house cleaners that are professionals are required to wear their uniforms while they're cleaning. And so in this particular situation, they may not be able to wear a white t-shirt. If that's the case, what we do want to do is we want to wear our bib apron. And the bib apron is, the one that I recommend is adjustable. And this allows you to put it on over your head and then adjust it so that it fits you perfectly and get it up tight over your clothes, like scooch it up near your neck so that it covers you and it doesn't get any of your clothes. This one also goes all the way down past my knees, almost like three quarters past my knees down almost to the floor. And the thing I like about this is it is water resistant, so it will repel water and it's, it doesn't absorb so fastly into your clothes. If you get some bleach on it, it will stain, but it's not going to stain your clothes. And so I really like it for that reason. These are fairly inexpensive. But I do recommend that you wear something to protect your uniform for the very same reason I recommend. And this is, this, this goes against everything that we've trained before, but I recommend that when you are doing bleach and a shower that you also wear shoe covers. Now we wear shoe covers as house cleaners when we're inside someone's home because we want to prevent ourselves from tracking and dirt from outside. And so if we are at a customer's house and we are, we are wearing our shoe covers when we get inside their house, that's cool, but we usually take them off when we get inside the shower. And the reason for that is when you get inside the shower, we don't want to slip and fall, right? But for this particular situation, we're not going to be climbing inside the shower unless we absolutely have to. What we're going to be doing is we're going to be reaching inside the shower, we're going to be spraying, and then we're going to be dipping back outside the shower again. So this is for our feet in the event that there's any overspray. We don't want it on our nice expensive shoes. And so I do recommend these shoe covers while you're doing the bleach application. Okay, so for this particular time, we're not going to take the shoe covers off when we go inside the bathroom, we're going to leave them on. And I recommend the kind of shoe covers. Again, I've got links below so that you guys can learn more about this. You can add some to your cart if you want. I have gone through all of the products that I'm sharing with you today. And I found the very best prices for these products. And I will, I will tell you, I do make a commission if you buy them. And that's not why I'm here. You're going to buy them anyway. I want you to buy the right ones. And I want you to understand the products. And then I want you to save some money at the same time. Okay. And if you can do something else without spending the money, I will tell you that as well. But I want you to buy the right stuff the first time. There's nothing more that makes me sad than people buying a whole bunch of stuff. And then it's the wrong stuff. Either they bought the cheap version and it fell apart or it was not, it wasn't quality and it didn't do the job or they bought something that they got price gouged on. Right. So I just want to tell you, but to have the ones with the treads on the bottom, that's a non-slip protective protection. And so for all of the shoe covers that you buy, these are not the cheapest on the market, but these will prevent with the non-skids. These will prevent you from slipping like on hardwood floors or whatever. We buy one kind and we use them for all of our cleaning. So if you're on ceramic tile floors, if you're on hardwood floors, if you are cleaning anywhere in a customer's house, this is going to prevent your shoes from tracking in anything from outside. And some house cleaners have asked me the question, so I'll just answer it now. Should we take our shoes off when we go inside a customer's house? And the answer is absolutely not, because you are on your feet as a house cleaner all day. And so if you're cleaning from sunup till sundown, that's a lot of time that you're putting pressure on your back, your hips, your knees, your spine. You need the support that good shock absorbers can provide from really great quality athletic shoes. And so the shoe that I use is a, I believe it's an excursion, a trail excursion. It's a cross cross shoe between a trail running shoe and a running shoe. And so it's got a lot of shock absorbency in it. It's got the high arches. It's got a really flexible toolbox. I'm not here to sell you shoes, but you need to be wearing shoes when you're cleaning house. So even if it's your own house, if it's someone else's house, if you're cleaning for an Airbnb, please wear your shoes and then just cover a shoe cover to protect your feet so that you're not upsetting a homeowner that's like, I don't wear shoes in my house or whatever. You need to wear shoes to protect your back, your spine, your hips, and your knees. Okay. So I'm glad we said that. Yay. I feel so much better already. All right. One more piece of personal protective equipment while we are talking about the shoe covers is I want to talk for a second about gloves and gloves are really important. I always wear nitrile gloves and I like the nitrile gloves better than the latex. I find that over the long haul, they work with more house cleaners. Some house cleaners have latex allergies. The nitrile seems to just be a good middle of the road glove that you can wear. And I like it because they're really durable. They don't rip as easy as some of the other brands that I've seen. And the thing that I like about them is if I'm running my hands across a countertop, I can feel the grit with my fingers, with the gloves on. And so I can tell like, oh, is this dirty or is it clean? Even without looking at it. Like sometimes you go to clean something and you hit like a piece of gunk and you can't tell that there's gunk. This allows you to sense that while you're wearing these gloves. This will also protect your hands from getting bleach on them. Okay. And it's really important because even if it's just an overspray and you're using that motion with the spray bottle, it can leak and it can get on your hands and it can eat through your hands because it's a very strong chemical, right? And we want to be sensitive to chemicals, especially if we're cleaning all day. All right, I'm going to stop for just a second to answer your questions and then we'll jump back in. Marilyn says, best product found for the bathroom is Clorox cleaner and bleach spray and done. Okay. Yes, that is awesome. Marilyn also says, if you have hard water stains in the toilet and you've tried everything, endless chemicals didn't work. You can clean without chemicals if you want. Get some gloves and like grit, wet, dry sandpaper and go to town. So we're not going to talk about cleaning toilets today because we are going to talk about bleach, but I do want us to be really, really cautious. And that's, that's an excellent tool. Thanks for recommending that. I do want to recommend that while we're using bleach, again, to be very painfully clear that this is a specialty product, not to be used by anyone unless they've had proper training on your team. So if you are bringing house cleaners in, it is your job as a professional that you do provide personal protective equipment. One of the personal protective equipment that we also recommend are safety glasses. And these safety glasses are really great because they wrap around your eyes and it will prevent you if you are spraying that any back spray would flip inside your eyes. So it's not going to completely cover your eyes, like if you were to have goggles that were sealed, which would be awesome if you covered those too, but that's like the respiratory mask. Most people are not going to go that severe. Your basic tools that you are required by OSHA to have are enough that will remind a house cleaner that you are in an environment where you must be careful. And it's that being on high alert and that situational awareness that protects us. It's going to help you protect yourself from spilling stuff. You're going to be very careful about where you stand. You're going to be careful about if you lean up against a shower that you've just sprayed. You're going to be careful about all of those things. And you want to make sure that you're very careful. And the personal protective equipment from top to bottom, and that's your eyes, your face mask, your gloves, your shoe covers, your apron, your from head to toe, you're covered. And so that's just going to be an awareness to you that, ugh, I got to be careful, right? I'm doing this bleach project. All right. Smokey of Storm, and says, and if you're using bleach, you want to protect your skin and your feet from bleach. It can make skin start to peel if exposed for a long time. Yes, that's true. We want to prevent all of our skin from touching it. And we want to especially prevent our eyes getting it in our eyes. On the safety data sheet, going back to the precautions, it is very harmful to your eyes. And if you do get it in your eyes, you want to stop what you're doing and you want to flush it with water. All right. So that said, I want to jump over to what is the process of using bleach. Okay. So once we've showed up and I said already, this is a special project, right? If you are going to a customer's house for the very first time, and you know, you're going to do a bleach, this is a special project. So you need to, you need to bill for it. You need to bring your special training, your special equipment, and your special caddy that has your bleach, and then also your ozone generator. This is an ozone generator. We need to talk about this for a second. It's about the size of my head. And so you can see how big it is. It's really not that big at all. It comes with a three-prong plug. And so it fits into a regular outlet. Can you see that? And then this is the other side of it. So it's a little plug that fits into the back of this right here. All right. And then there's a big fan on the back here, which is going to help circulate the air. And on the front, there are different timing timings. So you can set it for 20 minutes, 30 minutes, 60 minutes, 90 minutes, all the way up to three hours. And then it has a hold button down here. So you can see the hold and you can turn it on and leave it on if you need it. But for most circumstances, like if you're in a master bathroom and you're going to be using bleach, probably 20 or 30 minutes will work. Now let's talk about ozone for a second. And what is this? This is an ozone generating machine. And the purpose of having an ozone generating machine is that it's going to remove the smell from the bleach. That is what causes us to go like that if we breathe it. Okay. But ozone also does that to you. Ozone also creates its own nasty smell. So if you've ever been outside and there's like lightning and you go outside and you smell that, it just kind of smells like a musty dirt smell and you're kind of like, like that, that's ozone. So having bleach and ozone in the same place, it's just like double nasty, right? So what we're going to do is we're going to create a ozone chamber and then we're going to get out of the bathroom while it does its work. Now, here's how ozone works. Regular oxygen that we breathe is O2 and it has two molecules of oxygen. Okay. That's normal everyday oxygen that we breathe. The ozone, which are little short rays from UV that come from like the light of the sun that is O1. And so like when lightning strikes, for example, it connects to the regular oxygen molecules. And now instead of having O2, you have O3 and the O3 is a really unstable oxygen. So what happens is it kind of like fights to get back to its equilibrium, which it dissipates one of those oxygen molecules. And as a result of it, it's kind of cool. Well, what it does is it grabs the odors, the molecules that have odors in them, and it breaks it down and decomposes it and oxidizes it. Then it goes back to normal. So what we've discovered over the course of time is that by having an ozone generator, we can use it for cleaning chemicals like bleach. So this becomes a really great powerhouse. And the reason this becomes a special project, because when you go to a customer's house and you're bringing extra equipment, you got to pay for the extra equipment. You have to know how to use the extra equipment. It's extra training because it's not a regular process that we're going to do, like when we're regularly cleaning a customer's house, right? So there are rules and regulations for using an ozone generator. So if you are going to clean a customer's house with bleach, and you bring your ozone generator, you also have to bring a couple other things. So one of the things that you're going to bring with you is a bath towel. And I have added a couple of bath towels down here, and it's because you need a really heavy duty, durable bath towel. It doesn't matter what kind, it doesn't matter if it's old, it doesn't matter if it's stained, it doesn't, it doesn't matter. But it's going to be a great big heavy duty, durable, thick plush bath towel. And you're going to lay it down and you're going to roll it sideways so that it will cover the bottom of an entire door. And what we're going to do is we're going to block off all of the air that's circulating in the room. Now you'll notice in really fancy homes, especially, you've got these huge palladium windows in their bathroom and it lets in all this beautiful light. And they've got these big tubs and big showers, but they have really poor ventilation in many homes because those windows do not open. And so they might have a little fan, which they're required by law to have that meets the builder's code. But the builders, the fan in the bathroom often doesn't have proper ventilation. And then in the next room, they might have a bedroom or something. And if the windows are not open, it's common to get all kinds of mold inside these really fancy expensive showers. And so if you're going inside one of those bathrooms, what you're going to do is you're going to close off the bathroom. You'll go inside, you'll spray the bathroom with bleach, and then you'll close the bathroom off and you will turn on the ozone generator. And then you're going to leave and go clean the rest of the house while it does the bleach part and while it does the ozone part. Okay. So what happens is in this ceramic, inside this machine, it has a ceramic plate and this electrically creates that ozone. It's just like lightning. And it creates the ozone, which is like a smog, has that really awful, nasty smell to it. We don't want that smell circulating through the house because now you've got bleach and you have ozone that would be circulating through the house. And so the rule of thumb is if you're going to use an ozone machine, get everybody out of the house. Okay. Don't use it with people, plants, or pets inside the house because it's not healthy and it can be toxic to plants. For example, it can kill your plants. As far as people and pets, it's just going to make you sick. It's like when you breathe fumes and you get that feeling in your lungs. It's the same kind of thing. So we don't want that to happen as far as us breathing that. Smokey of Stormwind says, used to use ozone generators when guests would smoke in the rooms. It gets rid of cigarette smoke smell and it works awesome. That is so true and I'm so glad you brought that up. Thank you so much. There are lots of Airbnb hosts that use the ozone generators between guests to get rid of stinky sock smell or if there is a, like if they did smoke or if they smoked marijuana or something on the property there were no smoking policies. Sometimes even if they vape or if they burned incense, it can be really nasty smells that you're not accustomed to. I know another one is cooking with curry. Curry has a really strong smell. And so if you have an Airbnb and then you come in to clean and you find that, whoa, somebody loved curry while they were here and they did lots of cooking and it's that the smell has lingered. This is a great way to get that out of the air for Airbnb hosts. And one of the reasons it's so popular with Airbnb hosts. I'll share this with you. It is also really, really popular with flood and fire restoration companies. And for the reason that if there has been a fire in the house and the smoke alarm goes off, even if there wasn't a fire, but there was lots of smoke, for example, if something overheated or something, you know, burnt pizza or whatever it is, the smell of that can get stuck on things like oil paintings. And you can't grab cleaning solution and go spray oil paintings and get the smell off. You can't do that. And so the smell, the stink and the smell will get embedded into like fabrics and wall hangings and drapes and carpets and furniture and clothing. And if you have a basement, for example, let's say if you have a carpeted basement that is close to the cement floor, oftentimes it can, if it rains or it's moist outside, it can absorb a moisture that's in the cement and it can bring that into the basement where there's not a lot of circulation. And then it will smell bad and you have these musty, dank smells. You can grab an ozone generator and you can turn it on and you can create an ozone chamber and then you can lock the door and leave. And while you're gone, it can do the ozone, the ozone thing. The ozone, we want to leave it for about 20 to 30 minutes. And then the ozone breaks down. It's got like 50% life every half hour. So the next half hour, it's going to be 50% less potent as what it was before. And then the next half hour, it's going to be 50% of that. Then the next half hour, it's going to be 50% of that. So it breaks down over two or three hours and then it doesn't smell like anything at all. So it's like coming in after a rainstorm and everything has broken down properly. And then you're not smelling it so that it's not it's not, you know, hurting your lungs or any of those things. So one of the things that I do want to mention, if you are using it as a, as a smell, as a smell replacer, as a smell destroyer, just be aware that it's not great for people, plants or pets. And if you are going to use it while you are at a customer's house, the proper way to do it is to lock the bottom of the door. If you look in any room of your house, if you if you are in a room right now where there's a door, if you will look in the bottom of that door, you will probably notice there's about this much underneath the door where air can get through. That's what you want to block with the towel so that nothing comes through. So the towel is going to be on the outside of the door. The the ozone chamber is going to be inside the bathroom. You're going to turn the ozone on inside the bathroom and you're going to put it at about vanity level so that it circulates evenly through the room. You're going to turn off any air conditioning and any heat if you can. If you can't, let's say you're in an apartment complex and it's central air and heat. You're not going to be able to go in and like, oh hey, can like everyone in the building turn off their air while I use the ozone. You're not going to be able to do that, right? Nor should you. So one of the things that I've linked to below are magnetic vent covers and the typical vent, if you look, there's probably one in every room. By builder's code, there has to be a vent in every room. So there's probably one in a small room. There are probably two or three in a large room. And so one of the things that we want to do is we want to put a magnetic piece over the top of that vent just to block it. And when you put them up near the vent or on a floor vent, it usually smacks on and there's a lot of metal there. So it holds it in place. The ones that I've linked to are, I believe they are 13 by eight or something. And the average vent is five and a half by 12. So this is going to over cover it. It's going to do its job. And then if you have a big, big vent, you may want to put two of them on there just to cover the central air so that if the central air is on, it's just going to block those while you're doing the ozone thing. And that's going to protect you. It's going to protect the smells circulating through the house because there's nothing worse than having a really strong bleach smell and then really strong ozone smell while you're trying to clean somewhere else in the house. That too will make you sick. So we don't want to do that. Let's see. We have, we've got so many folks here. Hi, Glide and Glow. Hi, Denise. Hi, Nick. Smoky Winds. Anna, Violotex, Juliet. You guys, I'm so excited that you came to spend some time with me today. This is so cool. And I just, I really appreciate your comments and thank you, Marilyn, as well. Okay. So one of the things that I want to talk about is if you are inside the shower, there's one more thing I want to mention when we talk about towels and it is terry cloths. We're going to use terry cloths and I use the white ones, especially if I'm doing bleach for the fact that if for any reason I spill something, it's white. This goes back to the the conversation about having a white t-shirt. If you're using a white terry cloth, it's not going to stain as bad. When you step out of the shower, if for any reason you stepped on something in the shower and you stepped out, whatever you step on is going to be the customer's floor. We want to make sure that before we do the process, we remove the bath mat to get outside of the bathroom. We don't want to risk getting any bleach whatsoever on the customer's bath mat. Where the shower is, when you step out of the shower, you're going to step out onto your terry cloths. And so now you've got your shoe covers on and you're stepping onto a terry cloth. That's going to absorb anything so that if you step out on the customer's floor, you're not going to get any gunk on the customer's floor. I do recommend before you leave the bathroom that you take those shoe covers off and then when you go outside the bathroom that you get another set of shoe covers for the rest of the customer's house. We don't want to risk at all under any circumstances having gotten bleach on the bottom of your shoes and then tracking it anywhere in the customer's house because you are responsible. Again, it's in your care custody and control. And if you use bleach, you're 100% responsible for whatever happens. So if you have to wipe up any bleach and I'm not kidding, even wiping up, whoa, even wiping up the bottle, the side of the bottle, if some spilled on the side of the bottle and you have to wipe it up, you want to make sure that it is 100% wiped up before you take this bottle and put it back inside your cleaning caddy. You do not want to stay in your cleaning caddy. You don't want the bottle to leak anywhere in the customer's house. So if you've used this bottle to spray bleach in a customer's house, you're going to want to rinse the bottle from head to toe and then dry it off with a terry cloth. And that way you're covered and then there are no surprises. So as part of the training that we do for all of our employees, or if you're an Airbnb host and you work in Airbnbs, you want to do the same process. There's nothing worse than having a really nice, dark carpet in a bedroom right off the side of the bathroom. And then you walk out with your supplies and you leak bleach on it or something, and then you got to buy them a new, whatever it is, a new carpet, a new rug, a new whatever. So it's your responsibility. You got to be super careful. All right, let's see. Do I have any questions about the products that we've talked so far? Denise says, yes, please don't mix bleach with fumes like ammonia. It's toxic and deadly. I think that goes without saying, but I'm so glad that Denise brought that up. We don't mix anything with bleach ever. We don't mix anything with bleach ever. Let me say that again. We don't mix bleach with anything ever. Okay. So you can dilute bleach and we use the word dilute. You can dilute bleach with water, and that's technically mixing, but we're going to use the word mixing. We don't mix with anything because we want to know and we want all of our employees to know that mixing bleach, like Denise said, can be deadly. And every single year, there are house cleaners and homeowners that go to the hospital because they've mixed bleach with something because in the back of their mind, oh, it did such a great job with this. And this does such a great job over here. If I mix them, it will be twice as good, right? Not twice as good, twice as stupid. And I have to say that because we are not, for the most part, we are not chemists. And I'm really, really keen on this. If you are not a chemist and you did not go to school for chemistry and you are not in a lab situation where it's a controlled environment, where they have eyewash stations and they have emergency ventilators and all this kind of stuff to protect you if something goes wrong, you have no business, no business guessing on your own like, oh, this is not like cooking where you're mixing a couple of ingredients together. We're talking about really specific varieties of chemicals that have been tested in controlled environments for a very specific task. Okay. And so with that in mind, we have to, we have to respect the bleach. Bleach is very, very, very strong. I love the Clorox company for the things that they've done. I just want to stop and give them a shout out. During the pandemic, Clorox had to kind of retool all of the stuff that it was doing. And it became a pandemic awareness about cleaning, sanitizing and disinfecting. And the Clorox company went to task and they started producing Clorox and bleach in 55 gallon drums because one 55 gallon drum would clean 14,000 hospital rooms. And the hospitals were overwhelmed with people that were rushing to the hospital because of the COVID virus. And so because of that, their attention was, how do we serve? And so in a place where it was tough, I mean, remember in the, at the beginning of the pandemic, how nobody, nobody could get cleaning supplies, you would go to a store and there would be like nothing, nothing, there's nothing there. You couldn't get the cleaning supplies because the shipments had stopped. So all of the chemical products that they used to make Clorox and all the stuff that they, all the, all their processing had come to a grinding halt as well. And they were paying exorbitant fees to try to, to stay in mass production and create the stuff that they normally do. And so they were charging the same prices. They weren't doing any price gouging whatsoever. And they were working overtime, literally around the clock, 24 seven to try to provide enough Clorox that it would support the people that were doing all the disinfecting and all the cleaning and all that stuff. And so I really applaud them because they jumped through enormous hoops that cost them millions of dollars in order to be able to satisfy that need. And granted they're a public company. I mean, they're, they're here to make money, but the things that they did went so far above and beyond just regular customer service. And to be able to just ship out these big 55 gallon drums to help the hospitals and to try to keep everything sanitized, to protect our health. So I'm, I'm a really, really big fan of the company. And I love the fact that even though they have this very strong chemical that they were able to provide service. Now, one of the things that's really cool about the Clorox company, because we got asked a lot of questions during the pandemic about, can I use this on my hardwood floor to disinfect my hardwood floor? Guys, can we have a conversation for a second about hardwood floors? Why are you disinfecting it? Like most people don't eat off their hardwood floor, like the hardwood floors for walking on. And if you walk inside a house and you take off your shoes for the most part, and you're wandering around your own house, you shouldn't have like really dirty floors. And if you do, you can sweep and mop them, but we don't need to be spraying bleach on our hardwood floors. And during the pandemic, I saw so much property damage of people that used bleach the wrong way. I got calls from churches and they said, you know, people came in and they sprayed bleach all over the wood, like where people put their hands when they kneel down to pray, or the racks where the hymnals are. They said they sprayed them on the cloth, which are those velvet pews. And then they would leave it on for 10 minutes, hoping that it would disinfect. And it ruined, I mean, bleach is bleach. It's gonna bleach. It's gonna take the color right out of that. But it did. It bleached the pews. It ruined the velvet. It ruined the wood. It ate through the varnish on the church pews, the church benches. They mopped the floors with bleach. I mean, you're not going to believe the kind of property damage. There were people going inside office buildings. And for the few people that were still working before the stay at home mandates, there were people that were spraying like these really nice office desks with bleach and leaving it on there for 10 minutes. And it would just eat through the varnish. And then like, they're like, Oh, no, what did I do? And then the offices would call me and the churches were calling me. And I'm like, Well, the good news is your your cleaner is insured, right? I'm sure like you hired a reputable cleaner. They're like, Oh, no, like the church is like, no, no, we had parishioners that volunteered. And then I was like, Oh, no, this is on you. I mean, like, you're not you're not covered. Right. And as a as a cleaner, we had to have like these emergency conferences and tell all of our cleaners, this is in your care, custody and control. And if it comes out of your spray bottle, and you are paid to be the cleaner, you're also being paid to know how this works. And this is the reason why I say bleach is a special project, it requires special training, special equipment. And I mean, you're going to be bringing with you stuff that we don't bring to our normal jobs, right? If you're going to be doing an ozone job, you're going to be bringing with you special equipment. And so for that you should charge a special fee. And if we do a special project, like if we have a couple of showers that we're doing, we'll just bundle those together. And we'll add that maybe to the first cleaning. But that's going to be an extra $100 or so to come in and treat that whole shower. But it's going to cost them $100 anyway. Because if you don't use the bleach, then when you come in, you got to get your little scrub brush. And what are you going to use cleanser or something, and then you're going to have to clean that and it's going to take you an hour, an hour and a half to do it anyway. Right. So you might as well do it the first time and kill those microorganisms that you find with the pink slime and the mold and all that stuff. I'd rather treat the customer the right way, give them the right kind of cleaning, and then they might have to pay a little bit more, but they're going to pay a little bit more anyway. Right. If it takes you an hour and a half to clean their shower, why not have it just take the normal amount of time, but you cleaned it the right way and you were able to kill that bacteria. So that's how I feel about that. Okay. So I've got a couple of comments here. Hi, Jay. Hi, Romy, Denise. You guys, it's so good to see you on a Saturday morning. This is fun. VioletXOXOXOXO says, people today think you can just use bleach for everything. It's scary how people go bananas using it. That's true. That's true. It is, it is scary how people think it's good for everything. And like I said, it's a maintenance, I mean, it's a special project. And then we do maintenance cleaning after that. So I get asked the question a lot, especially if we've done a deep clean on a shower, which is a special project, and we use the bleach. I get a lot of questions where people say, after the bleach, how do I maintain the shower? And it comes down to training your customers how to clean their showers properly. And so whether it's a bathtub or whether it's a shower that has a glass door that we have to squeegee at the bottom. One of the things that I recommend, and I'm a really big fan of this, there's a product and it's a Mallory. Do I have one here? I do check it out. I have one here. It is a scrub sponge that has a nylon net over the top of it. And then on the other side, it has a squeegee. And this has a really long handle. I'm not a fan of the long handle, but this is the only way I can find it. This is actually found in the automotive department. And this is designed for getting bugs off the windshields of cars. Now, sometimes you'll go to a gas station and in the little thing with the water in it, you see these. This is phenomenal. And this is the best tool that I've ever seen for cleaning your bathroom shower and then squeegeeing it down. And so I've linked to this below. And here's how I use it. I grabbed the one that, I hope this is not gross. I grabbed the one from my bathroom this morning and it's older. So it's kind of a little bit used and it's wet. But what I did is I just took a pipe cutter and I just cut the handle in half so that it's more user friendly for my shower. Okay. And so what I do then after I am ready to replace it, like if I'm ready to replace it, it just unscrews like this so that I can unscrew the short little handle and I don't have to keep recutting it because I can only get it. You can only buy it with the long handle. Anyway, this is phenomenal. So going back to the question we had about the soap scum, how do you get rid of the soap scum? Hang on. I just dropped this there. It disappeared in the back. I use in the shower Dawn dish soap. So this is what Dawn dish soap looks like. Most of you are familiar with it. I know in the European continent, it's called Ferry. So Ferry or Dawn, this is what we use. And I love the blue stuff. I think it's just great. I have added to the links here also a pump container and it doesn't matter what kind of pump container that you use, any kind of pump container will work. But I think it should be clear. And this is my own personal preference for this reason. I can always see at a glance how much I have. Am I getting close? Am I getting down to the bottom? You know, I can see if I can see. It's also anybody that's in the shower and this one goes in my shower. So I'm the only one that's there. If you share a shower with someone else, you may want to put a label on it so they know what it is and put the tape over the front of it so that other people would know that what it is, right? Because that's just chemical safety wise. But I like the clear container for this reason. So after a shower, this is how you do a maintenance clean on a shower after you've already done the bleach. You just put a little couple of drops on the top here while your shower is wet. This goes back to the concept of, you know how when you soak a pot and pan, like it has gunk caked on the bottom of it and it's not coming off with the scrubby and how you like fill it up with hot soap and water and you put dish soap in it. This is the same concept. So you're inside the shower, it's hot, it's steamy, you've got nice hot water in there and it's been going for a couple of minutes. Everything in the shower is loose. So if you have a whole shower door full of soap scum, a little bit of dish soap on the side, and this is a sponge with a scrubby but it's not going to scratch the glass. So then you can use this and go back and forth along the sides of the shower glass and you'll want to go up and around the corners and around the handles. And because this is a scrubby, it's not going to scratch, but you can also go around the hardware. You remember how in the video I said don't use the bleach on the hardware, which is going to be your faucet, your shower head on a hose, the metal rim around the doors. We don't want to use bleach on that because it will eat away the finish. We don't want to do that, but you can with this go up and down all the hardware and around the faucet. You can grab the shower head on a hose and go up and down on both sides and clean it with the soap. Just imagine if it was a pot and a pan and you were using dish soap. So it's like the scrubby with the dish soap. It has the same exact effect. And the dish soap is a degreaser. So back to the question about the soap scum, it removes the soap scum. So for regular everyday cleaning, you just clean the walls with the soap and your sponge. Then you use the shower head on a hose and you hose the entire shower down. When you're done with that, you turn the squeegee over and then you just squeegee the walls. Now your shower looks brand new. And when you get to a customer's house and the customer has done this process, the showers are going to be super easy to clean. And if we train our customers to do that, it's going to save them a lot of money because it's not going to take us a half hour every single time we come to their house to clean their shower. And so with this, this is safe for use on fiberglass. It's safe for ceramic tile. If you have like a ceramic tile shower, like the one we saw in the video, it's safe for shower glass. It's just phenomenal. So while this was designed for automobiles and the bugs and the tar and stuff, it's fantastic for showers. And so I'm a really big fan of this. All right. So with that, I think, I think I've covered everything. I didn't cover everything. Oh my goodness. I forgot. Okay. I have one more thing to tell you. When we get out of the shower and we've already done the whole process with the bleach and we use the ozone generator, and then we left for a little bit, I forgot to tell you what happens when we come back. When we come back into the bathroom, we're not going to mix. Remember how we said we're not going to mix bleach with anything. There's residue of bleach in that shower because we just sprayed the whole entire shower from top to bottom with bleach. So there are still, there's still residue of bleach. We're not going to be bringing in any other chemicals to put inside that shower. Okay. Not cool. So what's going to happen is when we come back in, the room is going to smell nice. It's not going to smell like bleach. It's not going to smell like ozone. We've been gone for a couple hours. We cleaned the rest of the house. We're going to come back in now. Everything's going to be sort of tidy, like all the gunk in the, in the shower, it's pretty much going to be gone. It's just going to look like, oh no, somebody was in here and they did some weird stuff and now they left, right? You're going to remove the towel, remove the, the things that are sitting in front of the shower. You're going to remove the bleach. You're going to remove, you're going to pour the bleach back into the container. You put all your stuff away and that goes in a special kit. Okay. You're going to put all that stuff back away inside that kit. You're also going to bring a steamer. This is a handheld steamer. It's one of my favorites. This is the Bissell steamer. And this steamer is really great for a whole lot of non-chemical cleaning. And I like to use it in addition to the bleach because it's just steam. We're talking about just water to combat whatever we just did inside the shower. Okay. So the bleach is going to get most of it out. We're going to come in with our steamer. Now this steamer, I love this steamer for a couple of reasons. It comes with this kit and this kit has 25 attachments in it. And it has everything from the attachments that you use for the barbecue grill to the grout brushes that you use if you're doing grout. I showed you one of the grout brushes inside the video, but it has just a whole bunch of attachments. This also has the attachment that the little bonnet goes on that I showed you inside the video where you can use it to remove soap scum with nothing but the steam. And a couple of things about the steam. We're just going to use regular water. We're not going to use vinegar in here. We're not going to use essential oils. We're not going to use anything but water. And I get asked this question a lot because I don't know, people are tempted to add other stuff. The steamer is designed to remove 99.9% of bacteria with just the steam. It's the heat of the water that makes it so sanitary, right? It's like boiling something. Remember back in the days where a kid would drop the binky or the pacifier on the floor and we would boil it in water? The reason we did that is because the boiling of the water would disinfect and it would kill the germs. By the time the kid is one, why? You just pick it off the floor, you blow it off, and you give it back to them. But in the beginning when they're new, we would boil them so that there's no germs, right? This goes along the same concept. And the thing that I like about this unit is because it's just water, we're not mixing anything. It's easy to use. When you're done with the job and you dump the water out, we always store it with the door open. And that way the air can circulate and dry it out so that it doesn't build bacteria inside our reservoir, okay? So a couple of rules about using a steamer. And this has a really long cord. One of the reasons I really like this unit, it has a super long cord so that I don't need to bring an extension cord with me on the job. But the other thing that I like about that steamer, and I just happen to have this here with me, is it also has another adapter where you can use it as a regular mop. And this just pops off so that you can use this and attach this to the handheld unit. So if you have to go up to the top of the shower and you're going to steam off, you remember how, you've probably seen some of these online hacks where there's like gunk on a shower head and people will take like vinegar and they put it in a bag. They try to tie a twisty around it and leave it overnight. This is all kind of weird stuff. If you're using a steamer, and this is a great way to do this, you just attach this to the steamer head, it goes something like this. And now you have a long stick. So it allows you in a tall shower even to go up to the top of the shower head on a hose or the shower head. And you can steam that and just by steaming it, you can remove all of the gunk. So it's a seamless process. Then when you go to mop the floors, there's a little tongue and groove here. And the tongue and groove just fits right inside here. I don't know if you can see it. But anyway, it just goes like this. And once it snaps in place, you hook that on. And then you can go ahead and you can mop and steam like your ceramic tile floors. And again, no chemicals are required. And so this you can use is either a damp mop, a dry mop or a steam mop. And so I love it for that fact, because a lot of times like if you have hardwood floors, or you have luxury vinyl plank flooring, and you don't want to use steam because of course you don't want to use it unless you absolutely have to for like dog puke or you know, whatever. This gives you the opportunity to do that cleanup with the damp mop or the dry mop. And so there are lots of opportunities for using it. But I love the steamer because it has so many different utilities. And the steamer, we do carry on a regular maintenance job with us. We do carry this with us. But it's also one of our best and favorite tools for the special projects that we do. Because like if a customer wants you to to clean out their freezer, when you unplug the freezer, you've got five to eight hours of defrosting before it's actually going to make itself, you know, what do you call it, defrosted. And so you can go in here after it's unplugged. And don't hit the coils directly, but you can hit all the areas and the shelves around it. And as it drops, it's going to air out all that other area. And you can do it in about, I don't know, a tenth of the time. So we use this for a lot for the defrosting of freezers and stuff like that. You can also use it on ovens, inside ovens if there's somebody with chemical safety, chemical sensitivities. You can also use this for that. In the video you saw, we also used it to clean up the rest of the shower. If there's any residue in the shower, after we've already rinsed it, we're going to come in, we're going to rinse the shower with the shower head on a hose. Then we're going to use our steamer for the last little bit of whatever we have to do in that shower to get it clean. So for using bleach, bleach when you absolutely have to, make sure that you take your precautions and make sure that you're wearing your personal protective equipment. Make sure that when you come in to do the after cleaning, when you get ready to do the actual cleaning, because again, bleach is not a cleaner, it's a disinfectant. What you're going to do then is you're just going to use your steamer and that way you can use any of the attachments that we have that will do the job for what you need. So if you decided before you started the job that you have some mold or something on the walls, you may want to go over it with the steamer attachment that is designed, and this is what this looks like, that is designed for the grout so that it just gently removes all of that and it steams it and disinfects it as you go. So let's see, we've got some questions here and I want to, I really want to make sure that I get all these answered. Jay said I had to report our housekeeping depart for spraying bleach in the air after cleaning a room in my hospital. Oh, that's not cool. I'm sorry that that happened. Again, it comes down to just being aware. There are a lot of people that don't know the rules. I know during the pandemic we had a lot of people that didn't know the rules and so they were, they were using and misusing bleach. And back to the, back to the Clorox company, they made sure that during the pandemic when people were spraying bleach on floors and leaving them on floors, they came out with a Clorox wipe that would go right over like a Swiffer duster, for example. And it fit the Swiffer dusters perfectly. So you can use existing tools that are out on the market. They weren't even selling new tools. This was just stop whatever you're doing, you know, with mopping with the bleach and use these wipes that have a limited amount of chemicals on them. And it's, it's not a bleach. It wasn't a bleach situation, but it was like 99.9% sanitizing of the floors. And we determined that that was good enough because for most people 99.9% was sufficient for flooring. Unlike Jay, we're not doing medical procedures on our hardwood floors in our homes, for the most part. And so, I mean, I hope not at all, unless, you know, I hope not at all. So these, these tools that we use, it comes down to, are you, are you working smart, not hard? And are you learning the proper tools and techniques? And so that's what the whole dog and pony show is today, to let you know about the proper ways that we're using this. All right. I want to open this up for questions. Do we have any other questions here? I see lots of people saying, Hey, how you doing? And, hey, how you doing back? Nestor and Denise and Pam. Pam says, could you please explain the difference between Clorox Anywhere Hard Surface Cleaner, pet friendly, which I can't find anymore, and Clorox Hard Surface Cleaner commercial grade? So I don't know without looking at the safety data sheets, the specifics between those two products. And one of the things that I want to pay attention to is, Clorox can only be used on sealed surfaces. And so it's not designed for porous surfaces. And so how do you know if you have a sealed surface? So if you take some water and you spray it on a surface, like let's say that you spray it on a porcelain sink, and it beads up on the porcelain sink, it doesn't sink in, then you know you have a sealed surface and it's okay to use the Clorox spray. And the Clorox spray would be the dilution version that we're using inside a spray bottle. And this is three, one ounces to 32 ounces of water. So we're diluting it. And that would be the equivalent of one of the ready to use sprays. And that's something you need to be aware of. If you go to a store, they have concentrates and they have ready to use. When I buy a gallon of bleach like this, this is a concentrate. And so this is what we're talking about diluting. And so diluting this is, we're not going to use it full strength except in those icky showers and exactly how I explained it. That's the only way we're going to use it. And for the rest of everything else that we use it for, I think it's going to be a diluted version. If you buy a ready to use spray, you're going to go in and there's like a spray with a fancy bottle and it says Clorox bathroom spray or something, that's a diluted version. It's going to be the equivalent of the three pumps and the rest of it is water. So you're mostly paying for water and they have different varieties. Some smell like lavender, some smell like lemon. They have different scents that some are made for the bathroom. Some are stronger. What I recommend is that you read the labels and that you make sure you only use it on what it says. Because here's something that most people don't know. When you use a cleaning chemical and you use it as is directed by the manufacturer, you're good. And if you use it for other things, and I see a lot of TikTok hacks, don't get me started on TikTok hacks, but I see TikTok hacks where people are like mixing chemicals and stuff and they're using it inconsistent with the way that the manufacturer intended it. Not only can that be toxic, but if it ruins the surface or it plugs the toilet or it ruins whatever, it's not under warranty. It will completely void the warranty on whatever you have, whether it's flooring, whether it's an appliance, whether it's the fridge, a sink, a stove, a cabinet, a countertop, whatever. If you use the products inconsistent with the manufacturer's specifications, they will not stand good for it. They're not responsible. And so don't try to call them and say, oh, I used your product and it ruined such and such. You're supposed to know better. So yeah, please don't use the TikTok hacks. Most of them are just for entertainment only. And I hope that nobody ever gets hurt from the damage that's caused by those. All right. So I said that. Okay. Let's see. Do we have any other comments here? Uh, someone here said to mix bleach with thick toilet cleaner and leave it to sit on grout. Uh, no, we're not going to do that. I don't know who said that, but we're not going to do that. We just agreed as a, as a collective group that we're not going to mix bleach with anything. We might dilute it with water only, but we're not going to mix it with anything. And we're certainly not going to mix it with toilet bowl cleaner. One of the things that we have to be painfully aware of, and this goes back to the pH scale again, seven is neutral all the way over to the side. The zero are the acids and all the way over to the other side, we have 14, which are the alkalines. When you mix a product like Clorox, this is a number 12 and a half, and you mix it with something all the way over to the other scale. That's an acid and it does. Clorox does react to acids. And so what happens is you are creating toxic situations where either the fumes are going to be so strong, they'll knock you out. And I promise you this, there are people that are hospitalized every day for making stupid things like that. And I say stupid, because they're really, really, really stupid decisions. Please do not mix chemicals. Do not mix it with toilet bowl cleaner. Toilet bowl cleaner is a one or a two on the complete opposite end of the scale. And while you think it might cancel each other out because it neutralizes, you know, acids to alkaline, the mixtures are so toxic, they can be fatal. And so if I could implement or impart one piece of wisdom, do not mix anything with bleach. Bleach is very, very powerful all on its own. It doesn't need anything else. The only thing it needs is extreme caution. Got it? Okay, cool. All right. Do you guys have any other questions? If not, I'm going to let you guys get back to your day. I loved spending my Saturday morning with you. And we're going to do this again next week so that we can cover new tools and answer some of your questions there. So if you have any questions, now's the time to ask them. Jump in here. Tell me what you have to say. Violet XOXO says, people today think you can just use bleach for everything. Oh, I already read this one. This was awesome. Yes, it's true. And no, you can't. Please don't. Denise said, I think spraying bleach in the air was to fake people out into thinking it was cleaned at all. A lot of people do that. They'll spray stuff with a strong chemical smell. And I want you to be careful. Please be careful with chemicals. If you're in the house cleaning industry as long as I have been, 20, 30 years, your body has chemical sensitivities. And you have to be really painfully aware that there's only one version of us. So please protect your lungs. Please. I know for a couple of years, it's been really unpopular to wear a mask. And there have been people that have been really polarizing on both sides of it. Like, yeah, don't wear a mask. We've been wearing masks for 30 years. And this was long before the pandemic. If you're using strong chemicals, please wear your masks. It has nothing to do with the pandemic and everything to do with your lungs. Protect yourself. And if you're going to use like a really strong fume, like for an oven cleaner, for example, which is on that side of the pH scale, really close to the top and super strong, you're going to need an ozone generator for that room when you leave. You don't want the family coming home smelling a whole house full of fumes that are going to affect their lungs. Right? Like, let's protect each other. Let's take care of ourselves and let's protect each other. All right. That's it for today. I'll let you guys get back to your Saturday. Thanks again so much for joining me. I've really, really enjoyed our time together. And like I said, we'll do this again next week. All right. With that, that's it. See you soon.