Rural Economy Focus | Agriculture and Rural Development
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5ISFuDeqZpU
News & Politics
 Farms can be equated to factories in the rural areas. They absorb large numbers of unemployed South Africans. However, their potential to create employment is under threat. Of the thousands of farms which have been bought over by government, only 10% of them are operational. According to KZN-MEC for Agriculture and Rural Development, Bongiwe Sitole Moloi, her office will be working towards addressing the issue of unused farms in the province. This as farms form an integral part of rural development and growing the rural economy. The section that deals with land in our province that report direct to the national, and I'm hoping that as we are going to emerge, the land reform is now going to be made with agriculture, and rural development is going to make this process seamless, because it has had this up and down, and we were unable to be hands-on in it, because it was not our jurisdiction to deal with issue of land. But there are people that have been given land, they have not utilised them. Hence, ADA is dealing with that, that how can we make those 36 farms that have been given to people, but they are not utilised them. The farms have been a source of employment for Ndigelelo Baleni, who manages Mern's dairy farm in Moy River. His journey started as a young boy in rural Umzimkulu, where he grew up around livestock. He says he knew from an early age that this is the work he wanted to do. He joined the Future Farmers Apprenticeship Programme, after he matriculated, which gave him the opportunity to work on a farm in Australia, where he completed his diploma. So my journey started in Great Town in 2011, where I did my internship. I did two years there, minimum experience, and I did basic labor. I used to milk cows, I used to fix fences, I used to wash up the dairy. I was just general worker on minimum wage, and then I had a placement in Australia in 2013. I got a placement in Australia, and I spent three years there. And part of the Future Farmers' model is that you go overseas for a year, and you come back. You don't spend anything more than that. I was very fortunate, because my employer wanted to keep me longer, but I told them on the terms that I get further education. So I enrolled in an institute, where I did my dairy management diploma in Australia. Ended up spending three years, and I came back in 2016 to manage my first farm in South Africa, in Hawick. He is using the skills he obtained while learning and working in Australia to help beef farmers in parts of Umzinkulu. Baleni started the program after some farmers asked him how they could get a better price for their beef. So I started a little project. I invited all my local cow owners to give me two cows each, aging from the age two years to four years, because I didn't want cows older or younger than that. So the aim was to just, I just recently bought a pramand pool, and that's going to improve the genetics on that herd particularly. And we're going to run that herd, like a commercial beef herd will be ran. We're going to vaccinate it. It's going to have all vaccination history. And hopefully when we get back to the markets, we're going to get a better price. The farms have become a refuge for Lindogut Lezwane, who is a student working on the Moans farm. He started studying towards a diploma after getting involved in a life that almost put his family in danger. People should never look down on themselves. I used to be a person who looked down on himself. But today, I cannot believe I'm where I am. I used to look at farms from a distance and wonder what it takes to work there, and if I would ever work on those farms. Even though Lezwane is studying to complete his diploma, he has also joined the Future Farmers Apprenticeship Programme. The program has placed him on the Moans farm on a paid apprenticeship to gain experience. Some workers on farms around Wazulu Natal have lauded farms as the only source of employment in the rural areas. They say being employed has improved their lives. It's easier to get a job working for a farm than anywhere else because even graduates can't find jobs anywhere. Working at this farm has helped me a lot because jobs are hard to come by. But I managed to get a job at a time when I thought I was just trying my luck. Working here has made such a huge difference at home because now I'm able to plant my own food so my children can eat. While the unemployment rate sets at an all-time high of 29%, farms seem to provide an answer for unemployment in the rural areas. However, more needs to be done to ensure that the land allocated for agricultural purposes is used to capacity. Balint Lim Taitwa, SBC News, Johannesburg.