PHYSICAL/ STRUCTURAL METHODS  OF SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5jxq8pC5P38
Education
 Physical or structural methods of soil and water conservation. These involve mechanical constructions that drain waterway, help infiltrate excess water, and help retain moisture content in the soil. Examples Use of trash line or stone line. Cut vegetative materials or stones are heaped along the contours to trap eroded soil and reduce the speed of running water. Use of bands or off shots. Bands are formed by heeping soil along the contour. Grass is planted on top of the heaped band to hold it together. Bands control soil erosion by blocking surface run of rainwater. Use of cut-off drains or diversion ditches. A cut-off drain is an open trench with a wall of heaped soil on the lower side. The trench slopes down gently ensuring water flows slowly and is directed to a natural waterway. Cuts-off drains are constructed in areas with steep slopes with large quantities of water flow during heavy rains. Use of gabions or porous dams. Gabions are boxes made of wire mesh filled with stones placed across galleys. Gabions control soil erosion by trapping eroded soil. And reducing the speed of running water. Use of terraces. Terraces are stair-like strips of land cut across the slope, along the contour. Terraces slow down the water as it's flowing down the slope allowing most of it to sink slowly into the soil. Importance of terraces. They create a wide flat area making mechanization possible. They trap and retain runoff thus allowing water infiltration into the soil. They allow soil contained in runoff to settle down. Terraces reduce the speed of water flowing downhill thus making it less erosive. Types of terraces used in soil and water conservation. Fanyaju Terraces. They are made by digging a channel across the slope and heaping soil on the upper part of the slope. To maintain the heaped soil, grass is planted on top of the heap. Fanyachini Terraces. They are made by digging a channel across the slope and heaping soil on the lower part of the slope. To maintain the heaped soil, grass is planted on top of the heap. Bench Terraces. They are made by digging a channel across the slope and heaping soil on the upper part of the slope. A stone wall is constructed to support the steep part of the terrace. The lower part of the terrace has a drainage channel running along the contour. Bench Terraces. Bench Terraces are best constructed in steep areas where high-value crops such as coffee are planted. Broad-based Terraces. The terraces are wide while distance between terraces the stair-like strips of land is shallow. The terraces are wide thus allow machinery to pass over them. The terraces are narrow thus do not allow machinery to pass over them. We have genetic choisices in the Cornell For example, the bottom line is located in Tiniba's area.