What I Wish I Knew BEFORE Getting Backyard Chickens
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5n452vfBX8U
Pets & Animals
 My purpose is to save you heartache and worry because this is supposed to be stress-free. It's supposed to be fun. That's what raising chickens is. Otherwise, why do it? This is Goo. Hey, Gooey. Hi, Gooey. Your name is from Gumby. Remember the show Gumby? Yeah, she does. I'll put you down. Hello, friends. Welcome to Chickenlandia. My name is Dahlia. I'm a backyard chicken educator, also known as the president of Chickenlandia. Raising chickens has been the best way for me to find peace and joy in my life, and I want to help you find that, too. I have been teaching people about how to take care of their chickens for a long time now, over a decade. And believe me, I have seen and heard everything. I have heard everything. But I will say there's really nothing that can replace personal experience. And, you know, I have made some mistakes. So that's why today I want to tell you what I wish I knew, even before I got started with chickens. So that it can help you to have a different experience and a better experience. Okay, I'm moving over here because my roosters are being so loud. So when I got my first batch of baby chicks, I did not know that it is super important to keep an eye on them in that first 24 hours. I mean, like, watch them like a hawk and make sure that each and every one of them is eating and drinking. Baby chicks have about 48 hours after they hatch to get to food and water. Now, if a baby chick is born underneath a mother hen, they hatch out at different times within, like, a 48-hour time frame. Baby chicks can, during that time, absorb the nutrients that they had from within the egg. So they have a little window where they don't have to eat or drink. And they'll stay under their mother during that time. And then once they're all out and they're all fluffy, the mother hen comes out and she will take her baby chicks to food and water and start teaching them how to chicken. Okay? But in a hatchery situation, which is where I got my baby chicks from, I got them from a farm store. I wasn't, like, really thinking, okay, they came from a hatchery. They've been delivered here. They've gone through the mail. They've had this very stressful experience. And because of that, you really have to keep an eye on them for those first 24 hours to make sure that they're eating and drinking. Because if they don't eat and drink within that time frame, they can have something called starve out. Okay? And that's basically failure to thrive for baby chicks, which is what you don't want. You can get, you can end up with dead chicks if that happens. So make sure your baby chicks are eating and drinking. If they're not, you may want to check out, I do have a video. It's called, like, how to, how to, what is it called? I can never remember my video names. I'm going to link that in the description. But don't go watch it yet because I have some more important information to share with you. Okay, so another thing that I think is very important for new chicken keepers to know, and something I wish I knew when I got my first flock, is that baby chicks, from the time that they're little fluffy chicks until they become adult chickens, they will go through several, like, mini molts during that time. They will look scraggly. They will look raggedy. They will look busted. Okay? So if you see, like, you know, a little patch at the base of the tail, a few missing feathers around the neck, I don't want you to immediately assume, oh my gosh, they're getting picked on, they're getting bullied. That does happen. It can happen. That usually happens because baby chicks don't have enough space, or they don't have enough enrichment within their space. You will see that behavior happening. But if you're not seeing pecking and bullying going on, and you don't see any mites or lice or anything like that, it's very likely that they're just going through that really awkward juvenile stage where they just look like, you know, little hairy velociraptors, okay? And that is totally normal. And I was like, oh my gosh, I've got feather eaters. This is going to be a problem for, you know, the lifetime of this flock. You know, luckily I had somebody in my life that was like, look, don't, don't worry, you know, chill out, okay? And so I did. Okay, so I actually think that this is the most important thing I wish I had known from the beginning. I know it now. So you guys might see this during this video. I have my sweet rooster, Philippe. He is old. He has been chronically ill his whole life. And he's been having a little bit of trouble lately. So I do have him separated from the flock right now. But he really, like, he really wants to be with his flock. So I have him outside right now. But if you see him in the background and he's in his little run, I don't, you know, I'm not, I'm not keeping him in prison. He's just out here so he can get some fresh air. And I'm trying to keep him healthy. I don't know how much longer I have with him. But I just wanted to offer that explanation so you know that I really love this, this chicken, Philippe. If you want to know more about him, I'll leave some videos about Philippe and his journey here on this earth in the description. You know, when I first got chickens, I was confused. There was a ton of information out there. You know, I was in, like, chicken groups. Everybody was telling me different things. I would worry a lot. I would stress out a lot. And I really felt like, you know, I had to, like, reinvent the wheel. I learned about all these different things. And I bought a whole bunch of stuff. And now looking back at it, I really wish I would have understood that humankind has been keeping chickens for thousands of years. Like, millennia. Okay? A long time. Now, of course, it wasn't always like this. Like, what you see in my chicken yard. I have a way that I do it. It's a chickenlandia way. But there are many, many valid ways. The one thing that I didn't think of is that, you know, this should be the most natural thing in the world for me. It's literally, it's in my DNA. It's in my heritage. It is in your heritage. And we should feel confident about it. Because we're not reinventing the wheel. We are doing something that many people before us have done. And many people after us will do, hopefully. I was really lucky when I had my first vlog. Because I was nervous. I was anxious. And I didn't want to make any mistakes. And, of course, I did. But I had someone in my life who was a mentor to me. And this person had been a farmer their whole life. They had grown up on a farm. And I could just go to him and ask him questions. And he would always have an answer for me. And so that really made my experience so much better. And I really wish there was a way that I could offer that to everybody. And believe me, I get a lot of questions. And I just can't. Like, people just email me all the time. Or they message me on social media. And I just, I can't answer all of them. Like, that's impossible. I would be only doing that. And not putting out these videos and putting this information out there. Which I think is more valuable in the long run. So I can't be your personal mentor. But what I can offer you is something very, very close. It is an online course. It's called Chickenlandia's Backyard Chickens 101. A chicken course for everyone. This is a great course for beginners or intermediate chicken keepers. In this course, you're going to learn how to easily decide how many chickens you can have in the space that you have. You will learn how to keep baby chicks healthy naturally. You will learn how to have a user-friendly coop that your chickens are going to love. You'll learn how to keep chickens safe from predators without having to harm wildlife. And have healthy chickens without loading them with a whole bunch of unnecessary medications. So here is how this course is almost like having your own personal mentor. As you take the course, you can ask questions. And I see those questions or my co-instructor will see those questions. And we try to answer them usually within 24 hours. Which is way faster than I will ever get to any other question that someone just randomly emails me if I get to those at all. I do prioritize the questions that come from my students. And you will have access to this course for as long as the course is on the internet. So if you want to make your chicken keeping experience more fun, more entertaining, stress-free. Okay, that's a big one. All you have to do is click the link that I've left here on the screen. It's going to take you to a page that gives you a little bit more information about the course. And you can purchase it through that page. So I hope to see you there. And in the meantime, remember, you're always welcome in Chickenlandia. Bye!