Proper Pesticide Use in Agriculture
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5wkmOaVdDT4
Science & Technology
 On this Earth Day, we dive into the use of pesticides and spoke to two organizations, Western Plant Health and United Farm Workers. While both agree that improvements can be made, they each have their own views. Renee Pinnell with Western Plant Health says California has strict laws in place for the use of pesticides and that each product label comes with specific directions on proper use. Farmers are very educated, very knowledgeable, and they know the conditions of their farms. They know the pest pressures that they're under. On average, it takes anywhere from 10 to 15 years for a chemical product to be approved. And the process includes over 300 scientific studies on the product itself. But Heriberto says more needs to be done. The solution would be stronger enforcement of current pesticide regulation rules that protect farm workers. Currently, there are dozens of new and improved pesticides waiting to hit the market. Until we get them registered, then that's the challenge. The pests aren't going to wait until we have these new products. They're still going to be out there. If pesticides are not safely applied, farmers risk being fined by ag commissioners and can face civil penalties. The idea that ag commissioners are out there to protect farmers. Again, they're regulators. They're there to make sure that a product is used safely. Part of the issue, Heriberto says that more increasingly, corporations are taking over agriculture and family farms. But the fight towards improved safety regulations and chemicals continues. We're certainly not advocating that it's good enough. Everybody wants to do better. Our members spend hundreds of millions of dollars in research every year. Regardless, both parties agree the goal is to find the safest and healthiest way to produce the 400-plus commodities the state of California has to offer. I'm Cassandra Gutierrez in Fresno, ABC 30 Action News.