How the summer heat impacting Missouri farmers' market
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5wWia0YTADY
News & Politics
 Alla, thank you. Triple digit temperatures forcing many people to stay inside this weekend. Fox News Mallory Thomas shows us how the dangerous heat is impacting a local farmer's market. You were asking what crop is really taking a beating. It may be the cucumbers. It's probably the one that's not producing the way it should just because it's so darn dry. The leaves are wilted, vegetables are sunburned, and some crops are even producing less fruit this year. Cantaloupes are one of the things. They're corn, not as plentiful as last year. Waldo Holloway is stopping in at Thieves Farm on his way home. His weekend plans are to stay out of the heat. The extreme temperature has some customers changing the time they're out shopping. On weekends, there's a line of people to get in here at 9 o'clock. Sunday's 10 o'clock. There's 10 cars that are lined up to get in here because they want to beat the heat. So I don't blame them. So when I get in here, pick the fresh stuff as I get the can, get home, get in the refrigerator and relax in the cool air. Andrew Welly is the general manager and says the early morning hours are the busiest time of day. He says they're even starting work as early as possible before the sun is beating down. At 530, it's just getting light out. So the guys are getting all prepped up, ready to go, knives sharpened, sanitized jackets. Depending on what they're going to do, if you're picking okra, almost everybody wears long sleeves because that stuff just makes you itch so bad. As for Waldo, he says it's hot, but it could be worse. I'd probably make this a good 8.5 or 9. I've seen hotter than this. I mean, I've dealt with hotter than this, but this is a hot one so far. Welly says despite the heat, he still expects a lot of customers to come out next week again just first thing in the morning before that afternoon heat really hits. In Maryland Heights, Mallory Thomas, Fox 2 News.