CVTC | Agronomy Management Program
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6-zNi5pyZ3I
Education
 Music The Agronomy Management Program is a two-year associate's degree program. Within the two years they get a pesticide applicator license, a seed treatment license, also a Class A commercial CDL. So the students are a pretty good mix between having experience and not having experience and regardless of your experience there's a place for you in Agronomy. So the students who don't have the experience we upskill you very quickly in our first semester and upon graduation you are skilled the exact same as all the other students with experience. I grew up on a small dairy farm and really don't have all the nice new technology we're pretty old school so I really wanted to see what ag had in the new world or what's up and coming and I'm really glad that I came to this program. I thought I knew a lot coming in but once I got here it definitely was like a shock there's a lot more here than what I already know. I've learned how to do like the pro farmer like calculations for yield and then soil testing and even being able to run a combine and planter that was a very cool experience. This program it really helps you get ready for your job outside of the program. We work with a lot of partners along the way so they're getting exposed to the businesses that they could potentially work for someday as well as equipment that they maybe didn't have the chance to get in otherwise and so gives them a pretty well-rounded experience while they're here. All the equipment dealerships let us play with all the brand new equipment. We got case tractor and planter and then John Deere brought their version of that for corn. Pretty cool to see all the brand new stuff to work with. It's always something a little bit different. So they're going to learn everything from soil to equipment to plant science all the way up to the financials and how it all makes sense and really everything in between. The students are pretty unique in that at CVTC in this program they get to actually farm and so they're working at Right Choice Acres there's about 200 acres the students manage and farm themselves they make the decisions along the way. We get to work with a full year cover crop different varieties of corn different varieties of beans oats. So the agronomy management program we're going to get you everything you need to do to be successful within the industry. So you're going to be on the farm working with your hands doing something different every day. We're going to give you the skills that you need the hands-on skills the professional skills as well as the financial skills to be successful in our industry.