Episode 2: “Turning Soil & Feeding Calves | Ray County Realism”
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=66aEYAKqZtI
Gaming
 Welcome back to Rake Mountain. The ground's been tested and the gear's been serviced. Today we officially get to work. We're cultivating every field with second-hand equipment, bringing in our first calves and putting those free bales from John to good use. Enjoy this journey with me. As you can see, we are already busy with our first field, cultivating our smallest field. This is only the beginning of the 76 acres that we need to cultivate this week. So yeah, I'm using the John Deere 4440 and the cultivator that we picked up second-hand on the budget. So I will be not showing you everything because then this video is going to be extremely long. But sit back and relax as I show you some highlights and some clips of where we cultivate our fields. And then once the fields are done, we'll pop in again as we get ready to bring our first calves back to the field. Thank you so much for joining. Please like and subscribe if you haven't done already. It will help the channel a lot, will mean a lot to me. Please let me know if you are enjoying this and if there is anything else that you think we can do to make this series even better. Enjoy! Enjoy! Music volume…<|ms|> clips Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Alright, so we are finally done with cultivating our fields. I must say it's been quite the journey sitting in this tractor for the first time to cultivate our fields. But man, there's beets 9 to 5 every single day of the week. So, we just quickly need to refill this tractor because obviously it really took a beating when it comes to the amount of fuel that we used. So, we're just quickly refueling this tractor and yeah, just quickly going to grab something to eat. And then I am very, very, very excited to get our first, to get our first, let me just take a nice selfie here. There we go. That looks quite nice. Fiasa, very excited for our first calves. So, I'll be back in a second. See you guys in a bit. Yeah, we've got our animal trailer hooked up. I feel much better after some lunch. It's just still very misty. The sun hasn't come out. The weather forecast shows that next week should look a lot better. So, hopefully when we are starting the planting and seeding of our crops, then it will look a little bit better. But for now, we deal with it and there's beauty in every single season. So, we take it to heart. But I did speak to the animal dealership a little bit earlier while I was in the tractor. And it does sound like they do have some animals for us to look at. So, hopefully. Now, I'm not. I guess I should go straight here if I remember correctly. So, yeah. Hopefully, they've got something for us to look at. And that we will have a few beautiful calves on our farm within the next hour or two. So, I'll bring you guys up to speed in a little bit. Guys, guys, guys. Just look at this. Look at that. Look at that. And look at that thing. Well, small thing. We managed to buy our first calves. Well, the one is one month old. That little one. One month old. And the bigger one is, I think, 11 months old. So, we're going to get these back to the farm. And there is a few more that we've purchased. And that we are going to come and collect within the next hour or so. They're getting everything ready for me. So, I am. Well, I'm just so excited. I'm a little bit nervous, to be honest. I haven't looked after cows in my life. I mean, I had a dog. But that's it. So, yeah. Hopefully, this works out. All right. I'll see you in a bit. Okay. So, I just moved the one month old into the weaning barn. That's this one over here. Shame. Why is she struggling to walk like that? I think she's all right. I hope so. Let's go have a look. Shame, girl. Oh. Both of these are female. Yeah. You all right? Oh, here we go. Okay. Okay. So, she's just like the old tractors. Taking a while. Okay. Anyway. Both of them are females. So, the one to let's say around six months old. I'm going to keep them in the weaning barn. And then from six or seven months old, I'm going to put them in the cow barn. Let's see if we can spot this little lady here. Let's just close this gate before she decides to run home. Well, this is a new home. There we go. There we go. Okay. So, that's the 11 month old. Yeah. You're going to produce some milk, girl? I hope so. All right. Zero, zero, two, four. Okay. Anyways. So, just to show you guys. I'm off to the animal deal again. And I'll check in in a little bit. Okay. So, we're pulling back into the farm. And we bought another two cows. This time, we got two bulls. So, my idea is to get right about six to eight female cows. And two male cows. So, at this stage, we've got two female and two males. This one, one is 10 months old. The other one is 12 months old. Two very good cows. We'll show you their details now. Let's just quickly open up this gate. Get them in safely. There we go. Okay. Without the other one running out. Okay. Now, she's minding her own business there. She doesn't know I brought her future husband husbands. Okay. So, here we go. We've got one 10 month old and one 12 month old. Okay. So, we're going to move both of these into the husbandry. There we go. And you. And you go. There we go. Let's close this up. Go a little bit forward. Just close this gate. Right. Cool. Okay. Off we go again. Just wanted to give you guys an update. So, we'll see you guys in a little bit. Yeah, we're finally done moving in all our animals into the different places where they need to be. So, in the weaning barn, we've got four Holstein cows. We've got June, which is one month old. And at the bottom right, you can see the report I got from the animal dealer. Then we've got Shadow. Shadow is two months old and her report looks really, really, really good. Then we've got Ruby. Ruby's four months old. Also, a very good report. And then we've got Hazel. Hazel is five months old. Also, with a fairly good report. Okay, so that's on the weaning barn side. And then if we move to the cow barn. Here we go. Here we've got another five Holstein cows in. We've got the females are Sadie. Sadie is a 10-month-old Holstein. Also, very, very good report. Josie is on a vacation. No, I'm joking. She's not on a vacation far away. She's in our cow barn. Josie is an 11-month-old Holstein. And then we've got Nelly, also 12-month-old. And then our two bulls. We've got Duke, 10-month-old. And we've got Maverick, 12-month-old. So, yeah, very, very, very excited. it. So, we are now going to give these cows some food, and then we are going to call it on this video. Right, so, stick with me as we give these cows their first taste of their new home and food they're going to get over here, and hopefully they'll be happy, happy chappy. All right, so, let me get everything set up, and then I'll check in with you guys in a little bit. All right, so it kind of looked like I need to throw in a straw, like in the middle of this weaning barn. I'll still play around with it, maybe there's another way to do it. I'll have a look. Okay, so there's this bale done. Just make sure I don't drive over one of my new cows. That won't be very nice when, that won't be very nice when, will it? Okay, just close this gate. There we go. Okay, so we're only going to put one straw bell in there for now, and then we'll put the other one in, put one, or maybe put two straw bales in the, in the cow barn. this is quite a cool machine. I like it. Uh-oh. Why is that thing stuck? Go, drop, there we go. Okay, there we go. Ah, let's go out of the way. Oops. Oops. Oops. Oops. Oops. Oops. Oops. Oops. Oops. Oops. Oops. Oops. Oops. Oops. Oops. Oops. Oops. Oops. Oops. Oops. Oops. Oops. Oops. Oops. Oops. Oops. Oops. Oops. Look how excited that one is. Oops. Here you go, buddy. Here you go. Warm yourself up. It's quite cold out. Warm yourself up. Okay. For those of you watching, thank you very much. Um, every single person who watches the video, it's very special for me. Um, so thank you so much. Um, I'm gonna end off this episode over here. Well, I'm gonna stop talking over here. Um, I'll still continue feeding the cows. Uh, whereafter, we will call it a day or an in-game week for that matter. And, um, yeah, then episode three we'll start by, um, getting our first crops in the ground and hopefully we can, hopefully there's some grass ready to be mowed for us to start produce our own, our own, um, hay bales. Right, so thank you so much. Please, um, if you haven't, like and subscribe. Um, as I said before, it'll mean a lot to the channel. If you haven't watched episode one, please do. And, um, until next time, have a good one. Stay on the D