Animals for Kids 25 min Farm animal sound
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6ATbwi4kJ0w
Pets & Animals
 Kids Channel, My Little Star Cow Cow Cow Horse Horse Like and Subscribe Pig Pig Sap Marco Don't danach эконом심 HOW WOULD THEY WEIRD? It's a faultyport. They are worried about you. Look while from a two-and-a-man-man illustration. Where to keep your animal and capture more laughter? Donk... There's a place where you can accomplish all the places. It's the place where you found sleep, Where you found their ability dog dog dog Meow. Meow. Meow. Meow. Meow. Meow. Cat! Cat. Rabbit! Evidently excited. Cat. Cat. Cat. Cat- Cat- Goose! Goose! Goose! Rooster. Rooster. Rooster. Chicken Chicken Chicken Like and Subscribe This is a chick This is what the chick looks like It's a hen Hen This is what a hen looks like This is a rooster Rooster This is what a rooster looks like This is a family of chicken Let's get to know them better Here is a chick that has just hatched from an egg Now the chick is very small and defenseless While the chicks are small, the mother hen is always with them The mother hen builds a cozy straw nest where they all live together When the chicks are three days old, they leave the mother's nest Chicks eat cereals and drink clean water When the mother hen is not around, the chicks huddle together to keep warm Little chicks like all children are very playful If you hang a swing for them, they will be happy to ride on them Like and subscribe When the chicks grow up a little, the mother hen takes them out to graze on the grass She teaches them to extract bugs and worms from the ground Watch out, it's a cat It looks like the cat wants to grab the chick But the mother hen is always on the alert She is always ready to chase the cat away and protect her children Not all cats hunt chicks Sometimes kittens and chicks can make friends The chicks are growing very fast Soon they will be able to live on their own, without a mother hen Now it becomes clear which of the chicks are hens and which are roosters Hens live in packs During the day they walk around the yard They peck at grain, drink water, cackle and lay eggs At night, hens enter the chicken coop There they sleep on perches Hens huddle together to keep warm In the same place, in the coop, the hens incubate eggs, from which little chicks will then hatch When the chicks grow up, they will also become adult hens and roosters The rooster always lives with the hens One, sometimes more A rooster is easy to distinguish from a hen Its feathers are very bright and colorful On the head is a large comb and a large beard But the main difference is the song of the rooster The rooster In the morning, the rooster takes the hens out of the coop and begins to crow This is how he meets the new day The rooster is the most important among chickens He always keeps order and protects his hens and chicks Now lets listen to a fun song and watch the chickens Now lets listen to a fun song and watch the chickens Little horn Where old McDonald had a farm E-I-E-I-O And on his farm he had a cow E-I-E-I-O With a here and a there, here a there a everywhere Old McDonald had a farm E-I-E-I-O Old MacDonald had a farm E-I-E-I-O And on his farm he had a pig E-I-E-I-O With a here and a there, here a there a everywhere a Old MacDonald had a farm E-I-E-I-O Old MacDonald had a farm E-I-E-I-O And on his farm he had a dog E-I-E-I-O With a here and a there, here a there a everywhere a Old MacDonald had a farm E-I-E-I-O Old MacDonald had a farm E-I-E-I-O And on his farm he had some ducks E-I-E-I-O With a here and a there, here a there a everywhere a Quack Quack Old MacDonald had a farm E-I-E-I-O Old MacDonald had a farm E-I-E-I-O Old MacDonald had a farm E-I-E-I-O And on his farm he had some sheep E-I-E-I-O With a here and a there, here a there a everywhere a E-I-E-E-O Old MacDonald had a farm E-I-E-I-O Old MacDonald had a farm E-I-E-I-O Like and subscribe E-I-E-I-O Look, it's jungle Looks like someone is hiding in the bushes Let's watch Who do you see here? E-I-E-I-O E-I-E-O Elephant And local Grovan Heikes And there John And 450 Andマッ Who And My Er Ale With Well I I I I I I I Like and subscribe Who else is hiding in the bushes? Monkey Who else is hiding in the bushes? Monkey Who else is hiding in the bushes? Monkey Monkey Who else is hiding in the bushes? Monkey And he is hiding in the bushes Monkey preachinggive Monkey Wait Let's find more animals. Sloth. Sloth. Sloth. Sloth. Sloth. Sloth. Who do you see here? Sloth. Sloth. Sloth. Sloth. Sloth. Sloth. Sloth. Sloth. Sloth. Sloth. Sloth. Sloth. Sloth. Sloth. Sloth. Sloth. Who else is hiding in the bushes? Ah Like and subscribe Who do you see here? Parrot Let's do it again Elephant Monkey Zebra Leopard Sloth Parrot Lion Clownfish Clownfish Clownfish Clownfish Like and subscribe See yours. See yours. Crab. Crab. Crab is like a new experience forWork while receiving lists. Exciting. Shark Shark Shark Shark Shark Shark Shark Jellyfish Jellyfish Twoけるற Octopus Octopus Octopus Octopus Octopus Octopus Octopus Octopus Starfish Starfish Squid Squid Like and Subscribe