I DESIGNED my own FARM MANAGEMENT SOFTWARE!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6c-Kwe9iUvQ
People & Blogs
 Oh, sneaking up on me are you? No, you found me in my office. I'm working on a spreadsheet here. Let me show you the spreadsheet I built for the farm that contains our seeding of the fields, what crops we seeded in those fields, the acreage for the acreage reports that we need to turn in, the harvest bushels. How do we account for the bushels as they come to the bin and also as far as marketing? So without much further ado, I don't think there's much do around here. All right, let's just get it done. Come along. All right, let's get started. So on my spreadsheet that I built, first thing I do is I put in the year 2023. That will tell the rest of the sheets we're working with 2023 on all the data. Then I go down and here I have individual fields and tracks and there's many, many tracks. Let me just scroll down and show you how many fields there are. There's over 125 fields. And so each one of those need to be accounted for. When you hold the mouse over, it gives me a map of those of that track and the fields that are contained in that track. And that's cool because then you can visually see, oh yeah, I remember that, which field that is. And so it's just, it's a nice addition to when you're doing the data input. Also, we have the proposed acres and seeded. This is where we start out the year in planning where we're going to seed the crops in which fields. These are the history of the fields from previous years, what crop was on those individual fields. And this is all the years of the totals. And this is the total of the whole farm. But each unit has its own boxes here. So you can check and say, yeah, there's this many acres in this one, this one, that one. As we're planning here, we look at this one. This reflect of last year. Last year was seeded spring wheat. Let's just go ahead and say, we're going to seed, or not seed, we're going to chem follow this one. All right. It's going to automatically check this box as CC because it sees there was a crop on it. If there's not a crop, it's going to be automatically summer fall. So this one here was summer fall last year. Let's go ahead and do some winter wheat. Winter wheat, we planted last fall. I would have had this done. And so we'll just call it that. We had it, had planted winter wheat in that one. Yellow peas. Let's seed some yellow peas on this one because that's recrop. And then this one here, let's just go ahead and we're going to seed spring wheat on this summer fall. Then we go across this summer fall. Oh, that was winter wheat last year. And then we'll finish up with this example of barley. Okay. So we've got these four crops. And then as we're seeding, we'll finish that field, we'll check that box. And what that does is that will add up those acres tied to the crop reflective on the upcoming sheets. Okay. So we've got all our crops seeded. We're done. We need to start doing reports. So we've got to fill out two reports. One to the government FSA office. And then the other one is to insurance, crop insurance. So the first one, the FSA certification sheet. Every field has to be identified of what was seeded. Also the date. So you can put the date in here. So we've got those done. That's pretty much all filled out for federal crop. And it goes across all the other units that's on the farm will be filled out automatically just by the seeding, just checking that box. So then we go to the federal crop to do it. And that's different because they go by units, not individual fields necessarily. So it's going to be different totals. And so as you can see here on that one unit, unit one, we've got the summer fall of 208, 290 on winter, yellow peas 152, 151, 9. And so that pretty much fills it out. We can put the plant date in and that's the information we need for federal crop. So how we do this one is we'll start bin one was 2023. It was the year that we were doing the harvest was winter wheat. We had seeded when we harvested winter wheat first. So let's go. And that was summer fall. Let's go 200 inches. We measure how many inches of each unit is in the bin. There might be more than one unit in there. And this way we can keep each unit separate. And it was off of unit one. There's many other units, as you can see by this drop menu here that has to be accounted for. And all you do is you click down instead of having to type that unit name in. So it really makes it handy. So it's already populated and calculated the bushels in that bin. The reason why it's important about the date, let me do bin 6. And let's just put in not 24, let's go into 2019. We've just kept that bin. We never sold it. Don't ask me why. And it was canola. And it was unit one. All right. Now let's put some 45 in there. Okay. We had 1400 bushels of canola. I'm going to show you why that's important. So those bin levels are translated into where the unit is. And that also will populate these cells that are important because this is a share crop, the crop shares. And so this total of the 48 will be divided amongst those who have an interest in that crop. Here we have the acres from the previous report when we were planting. And this is the bushels that came out of that bin. And it gives us a yield. It's automatically calculated. I didn't have to put any of this data in. Same with the winter wheat. We had this many, almost 5,000 bushels of winter wheat. And we had 290 that gave a yield of 17.2. Same thing with yellow peas, 26. And barley of 23. Okay. So after harvest, we have the harvest bin totals. This is just reflective of this sheet of what we harvested this year. And the reason why I was telling you about the date as far as the current date on that one box. Here's that 2019 canola. There is no bushels because it was not produced this year. So that's what's important about the dates. If we need a CC loan on it, we can check that. Add the amount. Who took the loan out on it. And so we'll get a good indication. So this gives me a snapshot of what came in at harvest time as the bins. And also, there is a box in each one of the bins to check for protein. If you want to add the protein, it'll show up here. So it really helps in marketing. The bin inventories are your current grain on hand. Could be over multiple years. And so look at this canola. See where that canola now shows up. And so this is the total grain. And it can also be, if we put in a seed, it'll show up in our seed bins as far as seed availability. So we can keep an inventory of that also. I have a sheet here for contracts. I've redacted a ton of them. I just put in a couple examples here just to kind of show I can keep track of the contracts. Whenever we make a contract, I can put it in here. And I can see when the dates do. And it'll let me know. Okay. And then the last sheet is the share crops. All those crops will come into a total of the different kinds of crops that are planted on those. And then as I can want to know, you know, what their share is worth, I can put in the price. I can put a general price up here. And then they all get that price at that certain date. Or I can put individual prices, discounts, whatever. And then it'll come up what their total worth is. And then I can put a check to see if it's paid or not paid, the date it was paid. And so I can keep track of all that. Hopefully I didn't bore you. You probably finished your popcorn a long time before this. But this is how we handle our grain. And then also the seeding and keeping a history. And so next year, this will be 2024. And then it will clean itself up when I hit a button. And then it will start over and I can start the next year. All right. I'm going to turn you back over to Bob. Okay. Thanks, Bob, for that short presentation. I think you spread yourself a little thin. Anyway, guys, take care and we'll catch you on the next rerun.