Georgia Professor on Sustainability Safety of GMO Crops
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6eYYXZD3fUg
Science & Technology
 I am Wayne Parrott and I am a professor of biotechnology in the Department of Crop Science at the University of Georgia. And today I am here at the University of Illinois to look at the Morrill Plots. These have been in place since 1876, which makes it one of the oldest agricultural sustainability experiments that we have in the country. It turns out that in agriculture we have been concerned about sustainability since really the 1800s. There's just nothing new that was just invented by the environmental movement. In agriculture we realize that if you're not sustainable there is no future. When proper crop management techniques are used, yields are sustainable over long periods of time. There is a right way and a wrong way to do things. And one of the contributions that biotechnology has made is it has made it a lot easier for farmers to crop the right way. Due to advances in biotechnology, farmers say are plowing a lot less than they were. The worst thing you can do to soil is plow it. It washes away. It loses its structure. And in general it uses a lot of fuel, fossil fuels, to plow it. With modern crops we're not plowing as much. The soil quality gets better. A lot of other wildlife comes into play with insect resistant crops. We're not using the insecticide amounts that we used to use, which again just makes for a healthier agro ecosystem on the farm. In contrast to the crop varieties that we have been developing over the past century, biotech varieties are subjected to a very stringent period of study before farmers are allowed to plant them. And the idea is that by using biotech crops, we want to solve problems. We don't want to be creating new problems. There is a whole series of criteria now around the world. Anywhere where these are going to be planted have established their own criteria that they will study for a few years to make sure there's nothing different from conventional agriculture before the seed reach the farmer. During the trial phases, before anything reaches market, environmental safety is done by a wide different range of groups around the world. Certainly the companies themselves do a lot of their own work, but there's many universities or colleges of agriculture, particularly those with good extension departments. They have done a lot of the work historically. And again, depending on what country you're in, it may be their Ministry of Agriculture or it may be one of their institutes or one of their universities that carries out the safety research. You know, at this point, biotech crops have been grown for 14 years on over 2 billion acres in more than 29 countries around the world. So when we talk about their environmental safety, we do it from experience. The real world use, the real world information. We don't have to resort to guesses and theories. But based on their large-scale use and based on all the pre-market studies, our understanding of these crops is that they have not posed any problems that are different from conventional agriculture and in many cases have helped solve the problems of conventional agriculture. At the end of the day, an engineered corn plant is still a corn plant. An engineered soybean plant is still a soybean plant. And really the only difference between them and their non-engineered plants is one gene. So they may be easier to plant or they may need less insecticides. But if you didn't know that, I think most of us would never tell or could tell that they were bioengineered just by looking at them. But finally they were воз зач 될 the liverpa idiom of wheat kelps and будущ creatures, as well as nesting for the Scientists, who are so hyper tourist container based onREY, it was fairly heavenly, i. The one thing that this planet was called the Realty 좋은CE