Sustaining Our Ranching Heritage - King Ranch® Institute for Ranch Management 2023
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6hBgcI6ZQMg
People & Blogs
 Born in July of 1824, Richard King was a riverboat captain who was accustomed to commerce on the sea. But when he came to South Texas, his entrepreneurial vision told him that there was money to be made from the oceans of grass he saw while crossing what was known as the Wild Horse Desert. The King Ranch Institute for Ranch Management was born from a passionate dedication to ranching in celebration of the 150th anniversary of King Ranch. The mission is simple, to sustain our hard-earned ranching heritage through education, innovation, and outreach. We were created to advance the skills of exceptional ranch managers to manage the complex operations in this country. There are about 50 King Ranch Institute for Ranch Management alumni. They manage 7.2 million acres of ranch land and wildlife habitat, more than 150,000 cows, and over 500 employees under their umbrella. From classroom instruction to internships with large diverse ranches, students spend two years being immersed in learning the business of ranching and developing innovative techniques to meet the challenges the industry will face in the future. They are stewards of the land and its resources, business managers, and they lead charges for the rural communities in our industry. I think the Institute gives you confidence and gives you the ability to know that you now have a seat at the table. My name is Clint Richardson. I'm the general manager at Deseret Cattle and Citrus. I think what drew me to it mostly was just growing up in that lifestyle, having the opportunity to work alongside my father and my brother. Really, it's been in my blood. It's been something that I've wanted to do and always felt like there was this something just inside of me that made me want to be a rancher, made me want to work with cattle and horses. One of the greatest blessings that I've had in my life is to be able to come to the King Ranch Institute and to see my own potential, but also to develop the ability to see the potential in others. You know, when you're 30, 40 years old working on a ranch somewhere and you have a family to feed, it's a tough decision to decide whether or not to go to the Institute. My name is Hank Willemsma. I'm the ranch manager at the Beaverhead Ranch of Matador Ranch and Cattle Company in Dillon, Montana. By investing those two years at the King Ranch Institute, that put me 10 years further ahead than I would have been if I hadn't gone there. The classes that we got were, they were things that I was really interested in and realized that I needed. You've been in the industry, you've lived life, you kind of know what you want. So most academic institutions, you show up and you're just a number. You show up to the Institute and there's like, there's two other guys in your class. It's pretty unique. My name is Darrell White. I work for King Ranch. I oversee cattle operations at the Norris Division. I'm not from a multi-generational ranching family, but I saw the potential that I felt like I had. It really wasn't a sacrifice. I had a blast for the two years that I was there. I made some lifelong friends. When I came out of school, it allowed me to basically set a new benchmark for the expectations that I have for myself. I've been in a city of all the time. I've been in a city of all the time and I've been in a city of all the time. Times have certainly changed and though the dust stirred up by our ancestors have long settled, the passion, grit, and determination remain. The commitment to ranching, its heritage and lifestyle is still as strong as it was 100 years ago. There are new challenges, and many of the challenges our industry has faced over the years remain. Successful navigation of the ever-changing agricultural arena will demand the best resources, knowledge, and management skills. That's why the King Ranch Institute for Ranch Management exists, to ensure the next generation is well prepared to carry on this ranching heritage that we love. ... I would have been having a strong farmorboon now since I was 1.3rdowing from …. 我必须十秒 境端 I