Good farming practices for soil conservation
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6PsLdddG_2Q
Science & Technology
 Good evening ladies and gentlemen and thank you for inviting us to take part in this event. I represent ITER, a small company which has gained expertise in the study of soils. ITER also cooperates with the University of Sacro Quarry with the viticultural part being taken care of by Professor Pony. We have 10 viticultural estates that are part of this work group. We wanted the number of companies to be high because we wanted to submit a project that would really represent our local area fully. And it's a soil-based project. It's within the 4C focus area that concerns soils. It's a three-year project. It began in April 2016 and it will end in March 2019. We produced our own logo, so it's not artwork, it's something that we came up with ourselves. And it represents Emilia-Romagna as a sod. And it's important to manage that sod well so that the soil is conserved. What do we mean by terre or earths or lands or soils, whatever? It's the idea of land as Americans refer to. It includes the soil, but also the geology, morphology, the use of the land, and also the human activities that take place on it. What do we mean by soil? Soil is often referred to, and that has been the case today again. We deal with soil in terms of soil science, and we study the first meter and a half of the soil, the part where the vine roots can spread in and looking for water. Soil is also referred to as the soil. These pictures represent the main interpretations of our connection to the land, and also the definition that the Italian legislation provides. There is a definition that dates back to 1989. I did not summarize it. This is the full text. It says it's the territory soil, subsoil, the urban centers, and the infrastructure. That's all it says. While in the European Union the description is much more extensive. It says that soil is a precious resource that needs to be preserved, just like water and air. So there's the soil science, and it is what we are putting to good use in this research work. This research aims at identifying environments, reconnecting the soil and the climate, and we classify the soil according to the world reference that was defined by the US researchers to identify the types of soil. So we identified these 10 estates that partnered with us. In Emilia-Romagna we have an extensive history of viticulture and soil studies, thanks to the University of Piacenza and the Centro Produzioni Vegetali Plant Production Center that exist in our area. All the designation areas were studied in terms of both soils and also in terms of crop load. The 10 companies that represent this group represent two different environments in terms of soil and climate from between Emilia and Romania and account for 60% of the hillside viticultural area that are the focus of our project. One of the areas is what you see here. It's what we call ancient red soils. They can go back hundreds of thousands of years. No lime. The river is a plateau of 300 meters approximately above sea level with gradients that are very, very low. It's almost flat. Maximum it's 20%. These are very deep soils and you will not find rocks up until 3-4 meters in depth. The other environment that's typical of our area that we took as a reference is the fossils of the Piacenza area. These are soils that are very ancient. The rock substrate is 5 million years while the soil comes from erosion. The soil as you can see here is calcareous with rock inclusions around 1 meter deep. So it's two very different types of soils and settings. Actually, if we have to provide guidelines, which is the goal of this project, we have to do so by environment, by local area and also in terms of gradients and texture. These are the soil that are clay rich soils, the others being more rich in lime. And so they also have different draining capacities and water retention potentials. The project aims at identifying guidelines to protect the soil and the soil. And that can also support the farmer, trying to take care of the farmer's financial sustainability. We deal with soil erosion and soil leaching. And that's the thing. What's the situation in Emilia-Romagna after years, when part of a local area was regularly grassed every other alley 10-15 years. This is not an experimental test. that what the advisors recommend to make it possible for the soil to capture more water, the land, some alleys are plowed. So after extensive grassing all over the vineyards now they are plowing some of the alleys to retain water. But that also has other implications, for instance the ability to retain nutrients because grassing serves that function too. And this is one of the many activities that we have that we carry out monitoring how the soil is managed in terms of grassing and plowing. We wanted to define and share guidelines with the growers and ProViterre means exactly that, protecting viticultural land and the role of the viticulturists in preserving these territories and conserving them. We do that on top of our research activities through also popularization activities with debates and other demo based activities. Now eight of the wineries are in Piacenza, two are in the Romania area south of Bologna. The companies in Piacenza decided to partner with us because we've been active in the area for very long now. These work groups are based on a formal commitment that all the partners sign in front of a notary public and that lasts five years. For a grower that's very meaningful I think. It's something that is really binding. Organic matter monitoring and I was referring to the statistical data that we have in Emilia-Romagna and the content of organic matter tells us that with grassing there has been an improvement in organic matter. Here we have the adaptation of a methodology used in other research projects such as life in Emilia-Romagna. We take samples using the drills and studying soil sections as you've seen in the previous images down to one and a half meters deep. For organic matter we have two analytical methods, the element analyzer and the AFRSS. We have lots of historical data associated with other methodologies and so we decided to take both references. In terms of soil leaching we've analyzed the two pedological settings and we've used a rainfall simulator that has been used by other European researchers that proved that has proved that to be reliable in this kind of monitoring activities. There is a part followed by the new university catholic and the sacred water associated with the fruit to leaf ratios and how productive the vineyard is based on whether they are plowed or grassed. And we have a production area production lab at a winery where we use a diversity of cover crops to see what the productivity of the vineyard is affected. This is the estate where we have the demo plots. And here's the detail of the types of soil and the ability of the soil to retain water, which was already provided an early response on our initial studies. Thank you very much.