Ditching the Guesswork: How Online Irrigation Scheduling Apps Can Improve Crop Yields
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6scUcWc0fdM
Science & Technology
 Welcome and thank you for joining us for another episode of the Jane Irrigation Training Series. I'm your host, Richard Restuccia, and today we'll be talking about ditching the guesswork, how online irrigation scheduling helps improve crop yields. And that's a mouthful, but it's a very important mouthful because as we know, the better you are about managing your water, the better your yields are going to be. And especially in tough years when pricing is usually very good and this might make the biggest difference for you as a grower and the success of your farm. So this is becoming more and more important every year as we're starting to see some real temperature variances and things change with weather. So I'm really excited today because we've got Dr. Conger from the LSU Ag Center helping us out with this today. Now, I know Dr. Conger for a long time. We were talking earlier, maybe 12 or 15 years ago, she came out of the University of Florida with a group of people that I still keep in contact with today because they've made such a big impact on irrigation and have stayed in the irrigation world. I know at my most recent IA show, I made the comment where all the young people in the industry, well, Dr. Conger is part of this group that is younger and in the industry and really making a difference. I think she's got a great career ahead of her and she's had a great history already behind her in her research and contributions she's made to water management. So Dr. Conger, thank you for joining us today. I know this is going to be a real important webinar. Well, thank you so much for having me, Richard. It's a pleasure to be here. Yeah. So when I started thinking about online apps to schedule irrigation, I get excited because, you know, I used to joke a while back, you know, I need an app for my apps. But what I also think about an online app is that it makes my irrigation scheduling more simple. And I like that, right? I've got so many things to do today that I want to make that simple. And, but I also know in talking to people about, you know, are you using an online app to schedule irrigation? One of the things I get back is, you know, I would, but I feel like I have to bring so much information or gather so much information before I use that app that I don't get out of the gate. I know it'll help me, but I just can't get past that first speed bump. What do you have to say to those people? Yeah. I mean, it's, it's definitely a struggle because, you know, if you don't put in good information in the beginning and set everything up properly, you're not going to get good information out. And so it is important to, to be able to put in that information in the beginning, but really on the other side of that, we have to balance the simplicity with the complexity, you know, complex isn't always better. And so if we can get enough information to approximate the system, to start us off, we can always refine it in the future. So if we could just get past that initial input of, well, this is what I, I'm working with. And the farmer, for example, a farmer who's going to schedule irrigation, they're the only person who knows their field really, to the level that, that they can put in that information themselves. We can't really do that for them. Other than, you know, we can pull some, some approximations for them, but that's, that's pretty much it. They're going to have to get over that hump if they really want that irrigation schedule, I think. Yeah. I think that's a really good point. What you just made there, because again, if somebody is going to ask me about my business and I say, well, I'm going to have to spend a bunch of time researching before I talk about it, that might be a red flag for my business, right? So sure, ask me whatever you want about my business. I know it. It's not going to be that hard to, to talk about or give input about. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah. Okay. So would you like me to go through what we've put together today? Yeah, this is, yeah, I really want to, because I see a few, not a few, but quite a few now, people are developing apps for irrigation scheduling. Some are specific to the state that you're in or areas. And so these are some of the things we want to learn about today. You know, who can use this app? Who's it available to and how's it going to work? Yeah, absolutely. So since I'm in Louisiana, my thought process is really to focus on Louisiana conditions. And so that's our first goal is to capture this humid climate where we get a significant amount of rainfall and figure out how to schedule irrigation around that, because we always want irrigation to be supplemental to rainfall. And so really irrigation is a risk mitigation strategy in the humid states. And so, you know, we can't set a schedule and keep to it for the whole summer, because rain is going to make that a very dynamic process. Some of my colleagues did an evaluation on different natural disasters that will affect the state. And they found that drought is actually the most expensive risk to agriculture here, with 95% of projected crop losses by 2050 accounted to drought. And so that's in a big natural disaster prone state where we get hurricanes and tornadoes and drought and other flooding. We have it all here. And so really, we like to think of it as either insurance. I've heard people talk about irrigation as an insurance policy, where if we have drought, they have the capabilities to handle that. But also reducing that risk and making sure you do everything you can to get that crop harvested at the end of the season. So do most of the growers in Louisiana have irrigation? So we're about 56% irrigated at this point. That's the best that we have. And 91% of that is furrow irrigated, which means it's gravity fed and basically flooding the field. Right. The rest is pivot, basically sprinkler packages. Yeah. But for the most part, they're putting out a lot of water at once. And so we need to make sure they're putting it out at the right time. Yeah. And so if you look at this drought map from last summer, this is actually the map we use to justify this project. You know, Texas was in worse shape than us, and I wouldn't even dream of putting California up there. It's all the dark red. But we experienced drought last year. And that was actually what started this process of getting the web tool out. Also, the last few years, I worked with a scientist out of USDA ARS, Dr. Clement Soluand, who is an agricultural modeler. And we looked at historical rainfall in the state of Louisiana and created regional patterns to see if we could give irrigation recommendations based on historical rainfall as opposed to looking at real-time rainfall. And so we found that the only months where there's any difference in rainfall patterns in the state are those summer months. And North Louisiana is much drier than South Louisiana. And so June, July, and August, which are our irrigation months, are the months where we cannot count on rainfall, is basically what we found. Yeah. It's kind of the opposite of what you would want. Exactly. Exactly. The rest of the year, it's a swampland. But those three months, and sometimes a little earlier and sometimes a little later, those three are, you could be monsoon season, or you can be completely dry. And we have no clue what's going to happen. So the graph I'm showing now is the national water consumption for different categories. And if you look at that blue line at the top that has a dip in the beginning, and then it flatlines, and then you see the increase in the more recent years, that's agriculture. And really, the decline that was happening from 1950 to about 1975 was the onset of pressurized irrigation. And so even though we continually add acres for the most part in the US that are irrigated, we were seeing a decline because we were getting more efficient. Well, NRCS has developed some programs in Louisiana back in the 1990s, early 2000s, in Louisiana, early 2000s, early 2000s, early 2000s, early 2000s, early 2000s, early 2000s, early 2000s, early 2000s, early 2000s. And so we had a lot of farmers to land level their fields for drainage. But that has cut that fertile topsoil with all the organic matter away from that field. And so now water runs right off it, which means now it's not storing water and you have to irrigate to grow that crop. And so the Mid-South has added irrigation. And so we're starting to see that incline again that we hadn't had before. And the Mid-South is… I think I saw a slide on this a few years ago from the Irrigation Association. I was really surprised that they were showing where acreage was reduced and where it was gaining and refer to it as the Mid-South. It was really incredible how much it has increased over the last 20 years. Yeah. Arkansas, I think, is one of the biggest water users in agriculture for irrigation purposes. Right in there with California and Texas. And I think Nebraska is at the top of that list. Yeah, it's pretty incredible. Yeah, I think Idaho's in there too for potatoes. So… Yeah, probably so. Yeah. So this is basically from the Irrigation Water Management Survey that's done with the Agricultural Census every five years. And this is where producers have reported how they're scheduling their irrigation. So if you look across the bottom there… And they can pick multiple methods. They don't have to use just one. So these won't add up to 100%. But they can just look at the crop and see if it… They decide it needs irrigated by looking at how the crop looks. There's the feel of the soil. There's using a soil moisture sensor. Using a commercial or government scheduling program, which is like what we're talking about today. That's the apps and the spreadsheets and the web tools that are being developed. Some states receive daily crop ET reports. There's the calendar schedule method, where basically it's Monday. So that's the day I irrigate that field. And then they just know every day they have a different field to irrigate. And then when their neighbors decide to irrigate is how they decide when to irrigate. Which is still pretty substantial at five and a half percent on a national basis. So you can see a majority of people are really still looking at the crop and the soil to determine when to irrigate. That's a very manual process. Right. That look and feel method. Yeah. Yeah. But I was actually very encouraged here when I saw 7.2 using daily crop ET reports. Yeah. And I wonder… I actually wonder where that comes from. I may dive into that later in the data just to see. Because I know we don't have that here in Louisiana. That's not an option for our producers. But I would find interesting where ET is actually being given out on a daily basis. Right. Right. Yeah. No, that's great. So if we compare that to Louisiana, we're still very much in the crop condition and feel of the soil. So if we compare that to the soil, we're right in the soil. We're right in that range. We're perfect for soil moisture sensors. Right in that national average range. But we do not have the apps available. And so they're really not using… Any of that 2.5% is likely coming from a private company where they're using some irrigation scheduling tool that comes along with some other program they're using for farming. And so we're also not using those ET reports because we don't really provide those. But they did say less people are using the calendar and looking at their neighbors than the national average. And I compared that to Nebraska. Because Nebraska is a big irrigated state. And they have a lot more resources. So I wanted to see the comparison there. And they're still doing a lot of the crop condition and feel the soil. But they do have more tools available. So they've been better on soil moisture sensors, using the scheduling programs, and crop ET reports. So they must be one of those states that provides that to their farmers as an option. And really a combination of these are what's going to be the best option. I'm a big fan of everybody thinks differently. And so here are all the tools available. Use the combination that makes the most sense to you. So I like the idea that they're looking at the field. But I also like the idea that they're using science to help them as well. Yeah, I've seen that a lot. Right? It's the trust and verify. Yes. And my app or my soil moisture sensor is telling me one thing. But intuitively, I'm uncomfortable with it. And I've seen growers that have gotten the backhoe out and, you know, have dug a giant hole just to verify that the information they're getting is correct. And We did that last year. They're always surprised. But, you know, I get that intuitive feeling you have, you have to honor it. Yeah. Yeah. That was actually a really cool thing that I had never done that before. But I showed up at a farm, a sugar cane farm, and I'm helping him on learning how to schedule irrigation and developing recommendations for sugar cane. And he wanted to field check the soil moisture sensor. And he got out a big backhoe and took a big hole out and got in the hole and was marking the soil level. Like you could see the water in the soil and feeling the different depths and comparing that to what the sensor said. It actually came out the same. Yeah. Yeah. You were right. But it was validating. You know, it was nice. So one of the things you kind of asked me ahead of time of what is the difference between an app and a web tool? I think that was one of your questions. Yeah. And there is a difference. So the back side is still code, right? It's still programmed to work just like any other code, but it's more the way that you interact with the device that you're using to look at it. And so an app is actually a standalone program that you would download on a device and it lives there and you would open it. Everything's in that program. A web tool is basically a website. And so it's going to live on a website somewhere, but you can pull it, bring it up on a browser on your phone and have something on your home screen to open that page immediately, just like an app. But everything lives on some website server somewhere. So go ahead. Is your tool an app or a web tool? Ours is going to be a web tool. And that is because apps are really hard to support. Every time there's a software update and it doesn't matter, it could be Apple, it could be Google, Samsung. If anybody updates the software on a phone or a tablet, it is likely that that app will need to be updated for it to continue to work properly. That's a lot of backend support that we personally do not have. Whereas we have people managing our website and our website will not update as quickly as our phone will or our tablet. And so the web tool will take a lot less maintenance and updating, whereas the functionality for the end user should be close to the same. So we went the web tool route. Yeah, which is the direction most people are going these days. There are a lot of people are going these days just for that very reason that you mentioned. That's right. That's right. And so our process was to develop the methods, which is the science behind what we're doing. And then I made that into a spreadsheet. And so we had people come behind me, take that that tool, that spreadsheet, and code it so that it is now something that can function as a computer program. And then we connect that code to data sources, which we call the backside when we talk about it. It's basically making all of that function together, pull in that external weather data, pull in that, that soils information from where you said your field is located and, and all the different pieces of data that will make everything function. That all happens as one process. And then there's the front side, the front side is what you use and what you touch and how you interact with that code. And so the front side is the part that we're still kind of finalizing right now. Whereas everything else in our web tool has already been developed. And then something that we did for this specific project was have an advisory process, because the last thing I want to do is develop a tool that no one's going to use. Yeah. And so we developed, I contacted as many people as I could reach out to that I thought would help. And so we have a board of a handful of producers and some industry professionals that know the state very well, who are advising us on what it should look like, and what features it should have, and, and how they would interact with it to make it better so that hopefully their peers will be able to use it and see the same benefit that they see in it. Yeah, that was so smart of you guys, right? Because I'm sure you heard some things where you said, Oh, I wouldn't have thought of that and makes it so usable to, to the users. Yeah. And it comes back with, you know, I think in one way, but not everybody thinks like me. Yeah. And so something that I think it should be doesn't mean that's what everybody else thinks it should look like. That's just how I think about it. And so to hear the different perspectives and almost give the same information in different ways, we think is going to be very helpful in the end, because not everybody processes the information identically. So when I developed the methods, I started with a spreadsheet and the spreadsheet is just doing the soil water balance. So you have your input information, like when you planted and what your field capacity and permanent wilting point and all these, these details at the top to set up basically describe your field. And then below that, it was putting every day from your planting date and growing the roots and keeping track of the water moving through the system from ET and rain. And so, so that was very simple. That's the way I think, I think in spreadsheet terms. But I don't know any producer other than maybe a handful of producers who are also engineers that would really enjoy pulling out a spreadsheet every time they want to talk about irrigation. So even though this has been developed now since probably 2015, I've never publicly released it as a tool, because I just didn't think it was in a form that people would actually use it in. And so we're using this opportunity to take this spreadsheet and make it into that web tool. And with my interactions with farmers over the years, they've always told me they never sit down at the computer unless it's like the end of the season, they're doing all their, their end of the year reporting or, or, you know, things that they have to do on a computer. Otherwise, it's their phone, and they're in a tractor. Yeah, you know, they're scrolling on their phone for the tractor. And so I'm like, well, a spreadsheet is definitely not going to work on a phone. So really, our only option is to go the app or web tool route to have it be usable. Yeah, what a great point, right? For all our front end developer friends. Think about on your phone in your tractor, because that's really where it's going to happen. I talk a lot about in the morning, when you're having coffee, you can look at your computer, well, guess what, that's probably not happening. What's happening is I'm rushing to get to my tractor, and that's where I'm going to do my searches. Yeah, you're taking your coffee on the go and meeting the crew and making sure everybody knows where they're supposed to be and everything they're supposed to be doing. And, you know, the computer may be the end of the day, but likely, you're going to bed to start the next, the next crop day, right? You know, you don't have a lot of free time during the crop season. So with the spreadsheet method and the soil water balance method, there's always the opportunity for error. And so sometimes you get something that looks like this. This is where I measured soil moisture with a sensor, and then I used my soil water balance to approximate that soil moisture. And they pretty much line up, like good enough for irrigation scheduling. Because really, we're just picking the day that we're going to turn it on. Because my farmers, they're, they're flooding the field. So they're just picking the day they're going to turn it on. And then they're going to turn it off when the water hits the end of the field. Yeah, we're not, we're not doing an amount like we would for landscape irrigation. Right. So you're really doing frequency, not, right, time. Right. And so this lines up pretty well. But sometimes you have something that looks like this. And really what is happening is that our soil types, they have some issues. They get hydrophobic. They, they like to have runoff even when there's storage within the root zone. And so the soil water balance assumes if you have storage space available, water is going to go in there if you have a rain event, or an irrigation, water will enter the root zone. If there's room. However, it is very possible for us to get five inches in the day, even a couple hours like that, that does happen for us. We've had 17 inches on a day before. And so when you get water coming at an intensity like that, you know, five inches in a couple hours, that's a high intensity rain event. That is going to run off even if you have storage space because the intensity is larger than the infiltration rate. And so the soil water balance will get off like at the end of that second graph. And in August, we had a whole bunch of rain that came very quickly. And so the soil moisture that was predicted was very high because it was storing that but in reality, that water was running off and not entering the root zone. And so there's always the possibility for this to happen. And there's definitely improvements we can make on how the web tool works in that way in the future. But right now, we're just focusing on getting the tool out there. And also, if you're having rain, you're not irrigating. Right. So that the air doesn't matter as much unless it's dry. And when it's dry, we're approximating very well. And we get enough frequent rainfall. I mean, there's three portions there where we kind of got off track. But they always seem to come back and line back up eventually. I don't think that would be true in an arid climate. But that does happen here. Right. Yeah, I know you can see that very well in June when you get the big separations. They do come back at some point. Yeah, absolutely. And so if we're just looking at scheduling irrigation, I believe that that that increase in soil moisture on 729 was an irrigation event. So we were able to predict that irrigation event fairly well with the tool even though we were off in the rainy periods. Right. So going from that spreadsheet, we're basically going to what you would see on that front side. And this is really just a rendering like it's not you're going to see some terms that aren't quite right because this is it's version of what they think it's going to look like we're going to go through and refine all the details. So we are going to have a login because we want everyone to be able to own their own stuff in a portion of the website. And that way they can pull in future year or past years and look at what they've done in the past. And, you know, we'll be able to store that information for them. We are going to focus on using external logins that we're not going to store any passwords. So if you have a Google login and Apple login, you know, some other organization that's going to handle the security of your your login can be used on this. That's great to know. And I think it's important, right, that we are getting an early look today and we're getting a behind the scenes look at this app that nobody else is getting. That's right. Absolutely. This is the first time that we shared this publicly. Yeah. So once you log in, you'll have your fields there and these might change and how they look exactly. And then I asked for color changes because I wanted very quick determination of what they needed to focus on once they got into the app. So if it's not close to an irrigation day, they shouldn't need to go into that field and look at what's going on because it's not important that day. And so right now we're going to focus on trying to have color coding. So like when it gets close to an irrigation event and we're trying to communicate with that person, it may turn red or if they're fine, they may turn green. And we may play with that. We may put up the deficit percentage right there so they can see exactly where they are in terms of the soil water balance from the screen. But this is just a summary to know, okay, what fields do I have to target today? Yeah. And then once you go into a field, this is where you can edit it. So you can add your irrigation events if you know them. You can add, you can change the information at the top, which a lot of that will be brought in automatically once they define the field. So they can edit the field here. Right. So I only have to do this one time though. The data is saved. Is that correct? Exactly. Yes. So you do it the first time to set up the field and you would only come in here if you were adding an irrigation event. And realistically, we're looking at on average, probably five events per year. So you wouldn't come in here very often unless we are in a drought like we had last year. So then if you want to go in and see how that field is doing, like if you are close to an irrigation event, this is what that would look like. So the top still has that information about the field. And then right below that is your deficit value. And you can see there's two bars there, the red and blue and then the yellow that kind of looks like a rain gauge. Mm-hmm . We're still trying to decide which way it should look. So if you have an opinion, I'd love to hear it. I like the red and blue, but I've had some people tell me recently they like the rain gauge look. Huh. So if I understand right, the red is actually showing you that deficit Yeah. Yeah. amount coming down, right? Yes. And I like that better, but that doesn't mean anything. Yeah. I know what you mean. Yeah. The deficit is something that once I got to agriculture, I found that a lot of producers understood the concept of deficit instead of what your soil moisture is relative to field capacity and permanent wilting point. And so yeah, basically your deficit is the amount of water that's been lost from your root zone where target would be probably about 50% to target your irrigation event. Growing degree days may change. That was an idea. We're going to play with that as well. And then as you move down that page, this is where you're going to get your over time soil moisture. So you'll get that instantaneous deficit, but you can also visualize the moisture over time. And this is probably the one that I need to work with IT the most because they don't quite understand the terminology, but basically that green band is kind of a target that we will adjust to be to be closer to the real values of our target. And the reason it's it's banded that way is so that we don't over irrigate at the beginning of the season or at the end of the season, which is not the critical growth stages for water. Really the critical growth stages of most crops are in the middle during the reproductive periods. And so we're trying to target good soil moisture in the middle of the season and allow some deficit when you're trying to plant and spray and also trying to harvest. You don't need to be irrigating up until harvest. And so that'll just track over time. And then it kind of looks like a little tab there where it says irrigation activities. So if you go to water deficit, it's going to look closer like this. And this is the same as the little bar where we saw the instantaneous number, but it's tracked over time. So it's going to be the same as that line, but it's just a different way of thinking about it. And then the last tab is a tabular format. So in the end, it's going to provide you the date, not just the irrigation date, but the actual date. And it'll give you the ET value, the rainfall amount, the irrigation amount that you put in and those deficit values so that you can export that and have that information readily available. Okay. So if I'm getting this right again, it is to say, turn your irrigation on. Yes. It's not to say run it for 24 hours or 12 hours. It's say, turn it on. You know when to turn it off. We'll tell you when to turn it on again. Exactly. And there are other technologies that we can use are already available through extension. We can educate on them that will help you determine how long that time is and how to best apply it. This tool is basically being added to that suite of tools so that you also know when to do it. Yeah. Yeah, I think that's great. Right. I was talking to, you know, a flower grower yesterday and they said, well, once a week is what we water in the summer. I'm like, oh, well, yeah. Yeah. I mean, that's that calendar method, right? Like I water this field every Monday or I water, you know, these flowers get water to every Wednesday. And, you know, that works if you're having similar weather conditions like constant weather conditions, no rainfall. You can have one schedule that that can be so many days apart, like an interval schedule. Right. But here in Louisiana, we're just we get so much rainfall that we have to be way more dynamic. And it's very hard to tell when you're at that critical point of do I wait a week and catch the next rain or do I need to irrigate today to get through the season? Yeah. And it's you know, none of us can predict the future very well. And so it's hard to make those decisions. So we're just trying to provide this tool to make that a little bit easier. Yeah, that's really cool now. And I'm looking at a QR code right now, which I also I know all about since the covid. What's this QR code going to do for us? So this QR code will take you to a form where you can sign up to be notified when we release the tool. And, you know, I would have liked to have told you exactly where the tool is going to live right now. But I don't think they've created that space yet on the website. It will be on the AgCenter website to access it. But basically, if you use this QR code and put in your best contact information of how you want us to contact you, we will have we will basically let you know personally when the tool is released so that you can go in and try it. That's great. And you guys are expecting this release in a few days, a week, a month. What what's your best guess today? Probably a few weeks. I'm my it group said that they had some major deadlines actually that were today. And so we're getting prioritized starting tomorrow. And we're really close. Like I said, everything on that backside is done. It's just that front side of getting it to talk to the backside and look correct and working through like all that terminology that needs to be corrected and the fine details. So I imagine it'll take about a couple of weeks to get that done, but we will definitely put it out by the end of March. Yeah. And based on the chart you just showed a few slides ago, it seems like it'll be perfect timing. Yeah, absolutely. So we do have somebody asking about a link of this recording, and we do send the link to everybody who attends. So those of you who want to watch again or have it for future reference. So you will get that. Dr. Conger, what if I have a question about the data I'm looking at, or I'm not sure how to use the tool? What what can I do about that? How can I get some help? So you can contact me directly. My email address is up there. That's probably the best way to contact me the first time, and then we can schedule time to chat if that's the best way to do it. And then I also have a team of people behind me. So if it's not me, I can direct to the right person to help. And so that's probably the best way to get help. And I'm not sure in March we will have all this set up. But after this crop season, there will definitely be a manual that goes with the web tool and extension information on the landing page, the login page. So that information will be there to help as well in case it's just a simple like I don't know what this term means. You can go to that information and find out the term so that you don't have to reach out to us directly if you don't want to. But we're always available for that. Yeah, that's really cool, really helpful. And then is this just for growers in Louisiana or if I'm a grower in California, can I use it? That's a great question. So we put in crop coefficients that were specific to Louisiana. However, that will be adjustable. So in the the first year we're using a weather data source that's national. And so I don't see any limitation outside of your irrigation method. So I don't necessarily recommend this tool for like pivot irrigators or drip irrigators. But it's it's going to be a great tool for furrow irrigators anywhere, I think. Yeah, that's great. That's really that's that's going to be really helpful. That's for sure. Mm hmm. And last piece of advice that you might have for anybody who's holding back that says, Oh, I'm not sure I want to do this. Yeah, any any thoughts on that? I mean, you don't learn if you don't try. and you never know what is going to change your life in terms of what makes it easier or what will save you money. You know, and there's other aspects to irrigation that we didn't talk about other than, you know, maintaining well water conditions for crops. You know, economics comes into play and that's discussed a lot when I talk to farmers about, well, I'd love to drip irrigate but the cost doesn't match, you know, my crop production profit. Like I can't afford it and that does happen and we will, you know, this is just the first year. We will incorporate other things like economics in the future. But I mean, if you're going to irrigate today, you might as well try out your the resources you have and this one's going to be free. So there's really no downside. Yeah, well said and that's true, right? I mean, you might as well use all the tools available to get the irrigation schedule going. Yeah, absolutely. Well, Dr. Conger, no surprise. This was full of really good information today. It wasn't just an education on the app, but it was a great education for irrigation scheduling too. So I really appreciate you taking the time and putting us together and taking the time to deliver it today. It was it was really excellent. Thank you. Oh, thanks for having me. This was so much fun. Yeah, and I want to say thank you to all the viewers. We know how busy everybody is these days. So the fact that you're taking some of your day to spend with us, we really appreciate it. We hope we're delivering good irrigation information to all of you. Remember, you can see all of our trainings at the Janes USA dot com forward slash trainings page or also on our YouTube page or wherever you listen to your favorite podcast. You know, we extract the audio out of this and create a podcast. So the things I really like to think about is people in the field working and listening and educating at the same time. That's that's just really great. So again, thank you so much. I really appreciate it. And we hope you have a good rest of the afternoon.