Fresh Grown Farm Products a Click Away
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6SMMHkxEqiM
News & Politics
 Here in Georgia and across the country, consumers want fresh, locally grown produce, which often drives them to farmer's markets or UPIC operations. However, in the age of getting everything from a push of a button, consumers can get farm fresh products straight from the farm to their door with Market Wagon, a digital farmer's market created by this man, Nick Carter, a farmer himself who recognized there was an opportunity for consumers to connect directly with producers and the products they grow and sell. We started six years ago in Indianapolis, and it's an online farmer's market where customers can find everything that they're looking for from meat, dairy and eggs, produce, baked goods and heat meat items all on our website from various different local farmers and food producers and check out with just one order. And then we aggregate everything at our fulfillment center and we'll deliver it. And each one of those fulfillment centers has a completely different set of local farmers and food producers. So, they're all hyper-local supply chains and they're all truly online farmer's markets where you're interacting just with the local producers there in your area. Since their start six years ago, they've opened up new markets all across the Midwest and South, including here in Georgia. And one producer here in the state that uses the online market to sell her products is Sylvia Crowe, who owns Sun Woman Farms in Bogart, a small vegetable operation. Sylvia decided to use Market Wagon a while back when she needed a new market for her produce. Sylvia Crowe, When, um, everything started coming in, we had more than we could get rid of. So, we were trying to find other options on how to, you know, get rid of it and, you know, not have a total loss. So, my husband saw this on one of the news channels and he said, why don't we give this a try. So, we called him and this has been a blessing. This has been bigger than what I had anticipated, which is a good thing. Since she started selling on Market Wagon, Sylvia says that her business has grown week over week, which she says is due to people realizing there's options out there to buy fresh foods in a very convenient way. I think that people are wanting more local. They want to know that their, their produce, their, their things that they're getting are, are coming from Georgia. And I think people are seeing that. They're seeing a difference now where they might not have before. And according to Nick, it's not just a benefit to consumers, as producers now have the chance to expand their customer base and the chance to get the products from their farm into markets they wouldn't have before. What brings producers to our platform is really just that desire to connect directly with the people who are buying their food and the need for local farms to be able to grow their market, find new outlets to be able to sell directly to consumers. It's higher margin for producers, higher margin product and sales channel. And it creates a diversified income stream for the farm that oftentimes makes it possible for the next generation to be able to continue on. Reporting in Bogart for the Farm Monitor, I'm John Holcomb. See you then. Imcy Ahribb Hub kommates Maison. Check out Korean On New York Tony Chamber of Business TV слégalimmense. Stay closer to th tabs and Charles Kurt. The Farm careers program are among, too. They are among capital problems, so why does not go anywhere. Have a good card at home. We've got 10 and 8 years boss but yes, he always has everything. So let me know.