WEB_SEC_P2
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=73eadXa8c7I
People & Blogs
 Good morning. So in the web security today we are going to discuss few topics in the web security that remain in this chapter. Right. So the first topic that we have to discuss over here the client server model and then e-commerce model. Right. We have two topics one is client server model. There are several things within the client server model. Right. That we are going to study one by one. So what is client and what is server and what what's its model. Right. When we are talking about the fundamental design of any network based application. Right. Any network based application we are talking about the fundamental design. There are only the two things. Right. One is client another is server. The name client and the server are also commonly used categorized computer on the name. If we are talking about if you are going through a lab. Right. So if there are some computer on the network. Just you are classifying those computers between the client and server. Right. So if we are talking about the client. Right. So if we are talking about the company. Right. So if we are talking about the client. Right. What we are talking about. We can say that. Those that want something known as client, those that have something known as server. But when we are talking technically these things are wrong. For our purpose, at some times client refers to the application. Client refers to the application might be used as the server also. But when we are coming to the internet, it is most appropriate example of web browser that always works as the client. On the host that is interacting with the remote computer. That is server application. The most prevalent example of the client when it comes to the internet is a web browser. The most prevalent or most famous example we can take as the web browser. Because if we are going through a lab, there is a client and server. But at some time that server might be also a client. That server might be also a client. So, the appropriate example is web browser. Especially if we can define those that want something and those that have something. That is known as client and server respectively. Right. So, here is a simple example of the client-server. Client-server interaction is fitted in the web browser and server. Right. So, here local computer and here remote computer that is hosting one. Right. So, this is called as client and this is called as server. So, if we are talking, we have to know that the client has something that needs to be a server. So, we are coming to the main example of NetScape browser. Right. That is a web client. This is always a web client. So, we have in between the communication protocol and then we have some IIS application and web server. Okay. So, this internet service provider. Right. Where we have the applications of web server. That contents might be the HTML files and some active contents. There are only two things. Some active files and some HTML files. HTML files, what we do is what we do is to model the content. Right. The Hola. That is more for me is the link to app create data function, which to those channels are more online and uh Par faltomotfist. Right. This is also called as for email ID right like email just as the post office store and the purpose sorry processes physical mail email is the first stored in the electronic mailbox managed by the mail server managed by the mail server email clients such as Eudora or Outlook Express or we can say about the Gmail right so next come to the output what is put in HTTP well known post method right here in putt ki baat kaartate hai to sab se achi baat hai ki haam jo hai http joha haamara hypertext transfer protocol to us majo post method get and post method to us mahm post method ka use karen right post method ka baare ma baat karen kisik ke liye use hota ta upload message board posting right like credit card address information or online purchases web-based email although not commonly implemented because of security issue right even though yes rk sari cheeji nahi implement hoota hai web-based us ka region hai kuch na kuch security issue ho na right security issue ho na HTTP also provides the put method for uploading information right this tariqa se post method hai usse tariqa se ttp johai haamara ekor uske pass method hai put method same thing for what put sorry uploading the information the difference between the two is in the meaning request uri for post the uri refers the program on the server that is responsible for receiving and processing the information right the the information and that you upload right it is absolutely the difference between the two is in the meaning requested uri so that is the basic difference difference for post uri refers the program on the server that is responsible for receiving and processing the information and that you upload right it is absolutely the information so that the only required server should only support the put capability for the user to administrate their own files and directories right although clients such as dreamver and amia support this features instead of saving the modified page and manually transferring to the website these clients enables you to save directly to the remote website right here we have micro media w3.org right so this is what you have to do and this is what you have to do dream viewer right directly website upload option right okay so now we are talking about the get method why we are using the get method associated with retrieving the content content from the web server right put your have a website web server web server website upload request right so get information retrieve then modified as discussed previously right just like i'm discussed or modified it is used to retrieve page and other objects such as image from web server when web client request want we see yes where arezych we are display okay some things are HTML use formatting language extensively in the world wide web worldwide so HTML is a language formatting language it is appropriate view appropriate application of the international standard organization iso hypertext generalized HTML this is our HTML but HTML convert so there are some line of code that is written in HTML we have already studied so much about the HTML right here is a simple example of HTML go through this example okay then we have some server content so why we are using the server content and what the server is going to do so jadhi ham kisih bhi active content ki baat karehen kisih bhi website pe to humare paus kus chijay hai right server side joki executable hota hai and client side executable the first executing the content should be the most important with its security the selection sorry the section focus on the server side right this section johai ham johai poore kare poore server side focus hai which includes common gateway interface right joki hama rupas common gateway interface to use a script to use the same to use the same one of the servers so php php language so php php language common gateway interface script common gateway interface first interface design to provide the developers which capable to produce dynamic content to a website right dynamic content provide to use the script to use the script to use the script right cgi event to use the database to use the same to use the script to use the script to use the scriptdaughter Qui scripted mutta is commonly used informant variables request method http refer ho gya http address ho gya host ho gya user ho gya content type ho gya content length ho gya http user agent is the way to write the php cgi interface right us the way to write the php cgi interface right earth go over it what we bandwidth leaving scripting Ok right generally Kiss names nンポ beta guys this Kylie급& Life is your story. is a rooted version with Cama speakingünkénergie just get away from exp Klinkwa rest kit client side this this this this this this this this there are several things which we can use either client side or server side php client side use use right so this is Java sandbox yes all security contents okay Java kya kya kya java.input output dot file permission java.net dot stop permission sorry socket permission socket socket joha communicate karni use hot next we have to see order okay okay what is a state state state right state current situation indicate state current situation indicate is yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes any application that requires an association with multiple page by a single user requires a state state when you have to have multiple page for a single user then we have needed the state right we have to have to have to have the state effect on the state of radio a small at 59 information tracking ID all the information local computer store and you you first time data save all in one files or stored in individual files right store okay okay okay cookies security okay okay security okay okay in the sense there are some loophole from where anyone can enter a webbug is euphemism for the invisible even if dropping graphics embedded in the website email or word processing documents right if dropping right if dropping right if dropping you can see through the that certain loophole and that certain loophole is called a bug this is a programming or software but we have to do okay okay url tracking url tracking used to determine when how often and who is viewing the website right so browser type operating system type service provider dates and refers right okay okay let's come to the e-commerce design when we are talking about the web design then we always prepare about the e-commerce design because this is a vast vast design which frequently going to be used in the upcoming age and nowadays also you must consider several design issue and decision that developing a design for an e-commerce site assuming that there is no existing infrastructure the prime design factor will be based on the requirement right budget and available expertise more often than not requirement tends to fall by the wayside and design are based slowly on available resources right right this is how you can see important decision e-commerce design we have to do and then we have to do where will be website physically physically physically website recite what kind of operating system use operating system operating system use web server how will active content be implemented active content how will implement what is the procedure for maintenance and integrity right you can see e-commerce site maintain maintenance procedure what is the integrity right so this is one one one one one one one one one one two two two two three three two two hundreds two two hundred two three three three three four but first we have to decide that your website is where to store there are several servers nowadays so you have to decide to whom from whom you are going to purchase the space okay virtual server, dedicated server that means you are going to set up your own server right set up your own server for launching the website this case me you have to do what you want to do whatever you want to do is you want to do 24x7 on on return right if you have to do that you can access your website this is not that you have to start 2 hours and you have to close this whole time this is all the same any location or any location you can share your own this is what you want to do what location is what location is what location is what location is determine how to provide proper fixed security find an isp width ample bandwidth select hardware like intel composition compatible sun spark mintos and so on this is what location is network connectivity processors speed hardware select specific according to your knowledge and according to your needs you have to specify that right there are some other things select an operating system like windows solaris linux unix anyone yes right native skype enterprises other things web servers select a method of providing active content like java and so on that's all we have in this chapter so next day we are going to check it out something over here but before that if we want to check the syllabus okay we don't have the syllabus right now so leave it so email security along with the the other chapter we have to check it out and that chapter is nothing but email security okay now we have to check it out so leave it so email security along with the web browsing email has made made the internet popular widespread and independent stable right for most users despite its critical role in the typical internet user life email is comparatively insecure insecure the email insecure right emails secure to risk what is well defined and universally implemented protocol therefore it should be the prime target for the hacker targeted attacks По temp in tells am by to is a Attacks on email focus on two areas. The delivery and execution of malicious code. Jodhi kohi aapke email ko attack karta hai, hack karta hai, toh do chijijoh phe hummeh. Pahla ki delivery and execution of malicious code and disclosure of sensitive information. Dusra, the matter gets little publicity because it is easily done and does not require a sophisticated attack. Right, so we are going to see this in the next lecture. So whatever it may be, right now we are going to stop over here.