Farming Soars with the POWER of Compound Effect!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=75u1cZkQ-QU
People & Blogs
 Thank you for tuning into our channel Overlaw Farm in Mondorongese, Zimbabwe. Thank you to our returning subscribers. Please like us, please leave your comments and please share. We also thank you for those who have tuned in for the first time on our channel. Again, we ask you to subscribe, we ask you to like us, we ask you to leave your comments down below because some of your comments may help us improve. As you know Overlaw Farm we aspire to carry out our development that it is roosted in the interests and hearts and minds of the communities we work with. For us, people participation is central to our work because we believe that the people are capable of thinking and transforming our own lives. So your contribution is central to our work. We seek to facilitate the empowerment of the poor and the marginalized people, especially small scale farmers so that they are listened to, so that they get the right information, so that they are respected and they have adequate food and means to lead better lives. For us, we pride ourselves in the respect for indigenous knowledge and build a local knowledge system seasoned into wisdom over several centuries of practice and thought. We do not underestimate the knowledge of the local people. We challenge and over depends on the western hill of knowledge. And we continue to evaluate and promote the generation of solutions to problems in creative and innovative ways such as a fundamental requirement for growth and development. For us, Overlaw Farm, we only do things that help communities to bring about sustainable social change. That's why we come on this channel to showcase what we are doing so that others can learn a few things and others can learn from our mistakes. It is a platform for development. It is a platform to enhance practices and to promote each other. Because we are rooted in foundation for development. We only do these things that help communities bring about sustainable social change, like I have mentioned. And we fight against oppressive policies and practices, especially those with a bearing on smallholder farmers. In this episode, I am going to be introducing a concept called the compound effect. In farming? Basically, this is a concept and a principle of reaping huge rewards from a series of small, smart choices made consistently over a long period of time. Small choices done consistently lead to life-altering change. On the surface, this disarmably small choices may seem insignificant, but over time, they've got big impact. And compounding requires enormous amounts of patience and faith. I want to give you an example. Way back, our forefathers, during the period when we had rural to urban migration, our forefathers used to encourage the sons and daughters to invest back in the rural areas. By either buying animals or doing small things consistently every month, you buy an animal and you make sure that it's sent home. Over the other period of time, people have ended up with so much, quite big heads of cattle. And you know in Africa, cattle is a source of wealth. This concept also applies in how we manage our soils. We are talking about consistently putting things into our soils, like organic fertilizers, into our soils over a period of time. And this, in essence, would help to improve the ecosystem and thereby produce better soils, better soils with a far more bigger impact on our cropping. So I'm encouraging somebody that we do need to be making small, big, small choices really, that will have big impact in the long run. Every thought you repeatedly have, every impulse you often indulge, every decision you constantly make contribute to some kind of compounding effect. This firm, for example, we have been only doing this for a year. But then we have been doing small things every, every month, and we are starting to see the dividends of it. I'll tell you, in a year's time we'll be talking a different story. You're going to be talking to the, and this I only put it to the power of the compound effect. I'll be sharing more ideas around this principle so that we can help each other move on and develop.