Job Talks - Agricultural Equipment Technician - Isaac Explains the Day-to-Day Diversity in His Job
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7B9V96I5Rxs
People & Blogs
 My name is Isaac and I'm an Agricultural Equipment Technician. The reason that I entered the trade was because I enjoy hands-on work and this is the perfect place for it. And I also enjoy giving myself a challenge. I chose Agricultural specifically because the opportunity came up. I really didn't know what this trade specifically was about. I was out in the trade as an automotive service technician and I really enjoyed that. The place where I worked it wasn't giving me what I wanted out of a job. And then I heard about this job come up and I immediately declined it. I didn't even want to apply because I had a lot of the misconceptions about the trade. I didn't grow up on a farm. I really knew nothing about farming. But I gave it a shot and I got the job and I really, really enjoy it. There's a lot of variety. You learn something new every day, especially as someone who didn't come from a farm. And it shows that you don't need to be from a farm to work in the trade. Some of the things I like most about going to work is the fact that one day I could be sitting on my laptop half the day trying to diagnose a really complex electrical issue. And the next day I could be working on a piece of equipment that could be 20 years old and I'm rebuilding the engine or rebuilding the transmission. It really is always something different. There's days where your job is simply to get a piece of equipment ready to go to the field. So you could be putting wheels on a tractor. You could be working on hydraulics or engine or transmission, driveline, anything like that. So my responsibilities mostly are diagnosing the job and then repairing it as well. Going to the field also in a service vehicle which adds more variety to the job. For my friends when they talk about my trade and what I do they pretty much think I work on manure spreaders. That is one of the big misconceptions about this trade is that it's very dirty work. And that a lot of the equipment is very old and it isn't. We are very technologically advanced. There's a lot of controllers. There's miles of wiring harness on the equipment that we work on. There is old equipment that we work on as well which I do enjoy. I think one of the big misconceptions would be that people don't understand really what it is we do and how advanced it is. To a young person who is considering being an agricultural equipment technician I would tell them absolutely go for it. Don't let people tell you that it is anything lesser than going to college or lesser than going to university. If it's the right job for you if you enjoy hands-on work then I really do think it is the best option for a lot of people including myself. To a young folk train and go for it. There we go and go for it. There we go Fastestухadakaamp et sanitation in Wonderland. That awesome fact Manitica Buon sore. Leave someone long