Soil Management Practices to Improve Soil Health
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7EkPrwnL4BE
People & Blogs
 Hello, my name is Forbes Walker. I'm the environmental soil specialist here at the University of Tennessee Extension. Today I'd like to talk to you about soil management practices that help improve soil health. On this presentation today I've got my colleague Dr. Neil Aish as well. This is the last of our four talks on our soil health tour and I hope you found these talks useful. Definition of the soil health, this is I will continue to use the USDA definition that describes soil health as the continued capacity of a soil to function as a vital living ecosystem that sustains plants animals and humans. So when we look at the soil as an ecosystem the thing that is critical in this ecosystem is the microbes that live there and they all need food, shelter and water. Dr. De Bruun has already explained some of the basics behind microbial activity to you in her talk. Organic matter or carbon is critical for soil microbes to perform their functions. Without soil carbon the microbes really don't function. What we're looking at are practices that improve or conserve soil carbon will help build and improve soil health. It's the carbon that is important. So let's look at some of the things that we're going to be talking about today. Methods of reducing, of improving soil health through reduced tillage through the adoption of no-till. We're obviously here at the Mylan No-Till Virtual Field Day this year. We've been doing no-till at Mylan, since 1981. So we've got quite a bit of experience. We are learning there's some other practices in addition to just no-till that we can do to help build soil resilience including cover crop rotation, the use of cover crops and diversifying both the cover crops and the crop rotations. In addition to improving soil health, nutrient management and water management is very important. We'll just be touching on those briefly. Some of these are covered quite well in other tours in the area on this particular field day. If we can reduce tillage and adopt no-till, we can do some great things in reducing the destruction of organic matter in our soil. Basically what happens when the soil is tilled, we're going to aerate that soil. The stimulation, the oxygen aerating the soil is actually going to stimulate the microbes to break down that organic matter and release it into the atmosphere as carbon dioxide. Organic matter is important for many, many reasons. It's very important in nutrient cycling and it holds a pool of nutrients in the organic matter. So if we lose that organic matter, we lose a pool of nutrients. Organic matter is also very, very important in water dynamics and helping with the infiltration, reducing evaporation and increasing the water-holding capacity. Part of that is all related to the structure. We're pulverizing our soil through tillage. The soil doesn't have much of a structure. We're going to have more crusting in tilled systems than in no-till systems. With improvements in structure, we get improvements in water management, we get improvements in root development, better aggregation, and it's also going to prevent erosion. Now, the only thing you turn to make me a recommendation on tillage is we said that tillage should only be performed when soil moisture is low enough to prevent compaction. So this has been an issue with people that are tilling, especially in these wetter springs that we've been having in recent years. And that can also cause problems. But however, Tennessee is a no-till state. This is a summary of an analysis of the 2017 US Census of Agriculture. This is reported by the Sol Health Institute. And I've got a couple of figures here. One is to show that Tennessee is a leader with over 75% of the the state being no-till. I would suggest that we're probably closer to 85% than 75%. And we do have some way to go with the adoption of cover crops with this particular report suggesting that we're only at about 10% to 15%. I like to use this example of the revised universal soil loss equation. This is an equation that the United States Department of Agriculture, the NRCS folks, used to estimate soil erosion losses. And what we have here is a soil in Gibson County, a Grenada soil on a 2-6% slope. And if we were plowing this soil and growing corn, we would expect a loss in terms of tons per acre per year of about 64 tons per acre under corn, 95 tons per acre under soy, and 100 tons of acre per acre per acre per acre per acre per acre per acre per acre per acre. Obviously, these types of soil losses are not sustainable. And through the adoption of no-till, we can greatly reduce soil losses. So for corn, going from plowed to no-till, we reduce our losses from 64 tons to slightly under 2 tons, 1.4 tons. With the low residue systems under soy and cotton, because we don't have much residue on the surface, our losses are still fairly significant. Soy under no-till, 14 tons per acre per year, and cotton, 19 tons. Can we do better? Yes, we can do better. And if we add a cover crop into the system, we can reduce our soil erosion losses under corn to less than 1 ton per acre per year, less than 4 tons for soybeans and less than 5 tons for cotton. So this indicates that yes, no-till is a great way to reduce soil erosion, but also addition of cover crops is another great way of further reducing that soil erosion. So crop rotations and cover crops, what are they? Basically what we're talking about with crop rotations is we vary the crop's species in time and space. So we're not always growing the same crop year after year after year after year. The use of corn and followed by soy in rotations is common in Tennessee, and what this does is it helps break down weed disease and pest sizes. The addition of cover crops into these systems, these crop rotations also has got further benefits. One thing about cover crops, as we saw in that previous slide, is that surface, so much less erosion is going to take place because we've got something growing on the soil most of the year. We know that we're going to slowly maintain our increased soil organic matter content. If we've got leguminous cover crops in the mix, we can supply some nitrogen to our plants. We know that there's some weed suppression will occur, but we know that we're going to scavenge nutrients. And there are some people in other parts of the state, especially in middle Tennessee, have started to graze their cover crops in the springtime. And they're finding that that makes the cover crops more profitable. But it's just an aside there. So when we talk about cover crops for Tennessee, what are they? They are basically annuals that we're going to be planting either in the wintertime or interseeded into summer things. But break them down into grasses or cereals, and rye or cereal rye, oats, wheat, millet and sorghum are common things. Obviously, the rye, oats and wheat are winter, the millet and the sorghum will be summer. For leguminous crops, we've had lots of success with that with vetches, especially hairy vetch. Clovers, especially crimson clover are our go-to cover crops, leguminous cover crops for winter. And then if we were to go to summer, annual cover crops, cowpeas and lupins and other things. And then I've thrown in some others in as buckwheat is a commonly used one, especially in organic systems. And then the use of brassicas, radishes and turnips are becoming more and more common for different cover crop mixes. This is an example of some work we did in East Tennessee, when we were growing organic no-till corn from a few years ago. And if we look at the bottom left hand here, we planted a summer cover crop, a cowpea crop, which we then followed with a winter cover crop. I noticed that the great establishment and the great cover that we've got. And then in the spring, we terminated the covers by rolling them. And then we planted directly into the corn, directly into the rolled cover crop and some great, great weed suppression and great, great things. So this is what we're talking about in terms of building organic matter, conserving and improving carbon, and hopefully improving our soil health. Some of the weed control benefits with cover crops is through competition for nutrients and water. There's shading, allelopathic effects with some things that have been reported. And we're learning our weed specialist, Dr. Larry Steckel, has found some instances where we can actually reduce the need for some early season herbicides, or even some lately season herbicides. And that will help cover, defray the costs of the cover crops. This is some recent data that Amin Noori did as part of his PhD work. This is looking at a long-term continuous cotton experiment that we have in Jackson. It's a very, very busy slide, but what I want to emphasize here is going back to the early 80s, all the way through to the 2018, you can see the variation in the crop yields. What I want you to pay attention to is the no cover crop thing is the blue line. And you can see over time, that blue line starts to dominate in the lower yielding parts of the of the years, whereas the reds and the yellows and the greens float to the top. So this is a great data set to show that yes, cover crops, longer term use of cover crops, the cover crop plots, even in poor years, the reds and the reds are going to start to outperform the no cover crops. So it's another reason for growing the cover crops. One of the reasons, and this is some more unpublished data, this is a graduate student of mine, Safak Silan, he went to these long-term plots and these plots were established back in 1981 and we find significant increases in total organic carbon. You can see this graph on the top right hand under no-till, significantly more total organic carbon than conventional till. When you break it down into the cover crop systems, significantly more total organic carbon in the crimson clover and the hairy vetch compared with the no cover and the wheat. We also looked at the wet aggregate stability, that's a measure of how the aggregates break down or don't break down under impact from water. And you can see it there was much higher wet aggregate stability in the crimson clover cover crop treatments compared with the wheat or the cover crop. And again, breaking down the wet aggregate stability across all treatments by no-till and conventional till, you can see significantly higher in the no-till. I'd also encourage you to look at Dr. Cindy Jagadama's talk in this tour, where she's talking about some of these issues as well. She's particularly talking about how some of the current popular soil health tests don't appear to be working for us very well in Tennessee. We've been working with another group of, this is a simple test called a microbiometer test. We applied this to these same plots and we found with this rapid test that we were able to distinguish between the no-till and the till. This is basically a measure of microbial populations using this quick test and it appears to be doing a good job. We also got a similar result with the cover crops, similar to the last couple of slides when I was talking about the total organic carbon. And so, looks like we may have found a test that may work, but we still got a lot of work to do on it. And this is again, unpublished data that Amin Nouri has been helping us out with. The one bit of yield data we do have from the benefits of cover crops is data that we've got from a rotational study, a corn, a soybean corn, a rotational study in Milan. And the one year we got a significant yield response was in a dry year. This first year, 2014, we had soybeans and we were inundated with slugs, so we didn't have any yield difference. The next year we had corn, 2015, there was no significant difference in the yield. The one year when we have detected a yield difference is the 2016 when we had soybeans. It was a dry year and we saw significant yield response using a five way, six way species mix of cover crops. The last time we had the mild no-till field day, we actually had a demonstration, demonstrating this thing. I'll just, this is a picture I pulled from that particular thing. So we've got soils from a vertical tillage plot, soils from a control, no cover crop soils, where we were using cereal rye and crimson clover. And the take home message here is the lower parts are showing how much runoff is. So you see significant runoff coming from the vertical tillage controls and almost no tillage control. So we've got a lot of runoff coming from the cover crop treatments. And you can see we measured the infiltration rates. So this is telling us this, with no-till in combination with cover crops, we're doing some great things to our water management and improving our water management. Start to wind up this talk by talking a little bit about fertilizers and lime. Obviously, if we've got some nutrients that are deficient, we need to correct that. And rather than guess how much fertilizer we need, we always recommend that we use a soil test to pull soil samples and using the University of Tennessee lab or a similar lab, run our soil tests. The other thing is it's very important to understand what your soil test is recommending. I will say that we, the University of Tennessee, always will recommend us have a sufficiency approach to recommending nutrients. So we're only going to recommend nutrients that are going to give you, are going to be sufficient to give you a yield response. We're not going to suggest that you maintain high soil test values if you're not going to get a yield response. Correcting soil pH is a very, very important thing. Again, that's something you get from the soil test report. And we think it's very, we know it's very important to use state-specific recommendations for our fertilizer rates. Following the four Rs, which is a series of principles that the Fertilizer Institute is promoting. The right rate of fertilizer, the right type of fertilizer at the right time, and the right placement of the four Rs. We know that there are some precision technologies, particular variable rate applications of fertilizers, also are ways to better target our nutrient applications. Water management, this is being covered in our tour eye. There was a, this could have easily been part of our, our tour here. And I would encourage you to go and look at the talks, specifically the ones that Brian Leib and Avats Shukufa are talking about. Brian is our irrigation specialist. He's got some neat work going on in how we manage our irrigation. Can we manage it more smartly rather than blanket irrigation actions? The use of sensors and we also have a, he has an app that we can use with a cell phone that should be being released soon. And Avats Shukufa, plant physiologist, doing some really great work looking at how our high performing varieties perform under deficit conditions. Some of them do really well, some of them not so well. And so maybe in the future when we're looking at improving soil health, we also want to be looking at some of these varieties that not only yield well under ideal conditions, but yield well under variable rainfall conditions. And so I was going to end this talk by giving the same definition slide that I started off with. So when we talk about soil health, we're talking about the capacity of the soil to function as a vital living ecosystem. When we're talking about the soil as an ecosystem, it's an ecosystem for microbes that all need food, shelter, and water and organic matter or carbon is critical for that. If we can do, if we can increase or maintain our carbon, then we can improve our soil health measures and practices that improve or console, soil carbon are critical for building and improving soil health. And I will leave you with a slide from the last mile and no-till field day when we actually did it in person. And hopefully we will see you in in person in two years time 2022. If you've got any questions, please don't hesitate to contact me. I've left you my email address. And again, thank you very much for your time.