Your Cucumber Plants Will DIE Every Time You Make This Mistake!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7eQrkXVMpgk
People & Blogs
 What's going on gardeners? It's Saturday, July 23rd and it has been nothing but rain this summer on the southeastern coast of North Carolina, but we finally have a break in the clouds and I want to take this opportunity to show you the one mistake that almost every single gardener makes when growing cucumbers that will result in the plant's death every single time and how you can try and avoid that mistake. If you're new to the channel, please consider subscribing and hitting the bell to receive new video notifications and check out our Amazon storefront and spread shop in the video description for a list of the gardening products I use and awesome custom designed apparel and other gear. Your support is greatly appreciated. Right here, you'll see the very first two cucumber plants that I planted in my garden way back in early April. So these two plants right here are almost four months old, which is very unusual. Here where I live, where the pest and disease pressure and the humidity is absolutely awful, four months old is a ripe old age for a cucumber plant. Usually they're long dead by now, but maybe it's just because of all the rain and overcast skies that we're getting. Maybe they're not succumbing to the really bad sunshine and UV index that we usually have because we're having such a cloudy, rainy July, I guess. I don't really know. However, no matter what the reason is why they're both still alive, you will notice that one cucumber plant is in dramatically better condition than the other cucumber plant. This one is still mostly healthy and green and growing up, whereas this one right here is dying back. And it's not because one has disease or one got attacked by pests and the other one didn't. No, it's just because of a mistake that I made. I made a mistake on that plant that I did not make on this plant. And this mistake will lead to death on a cucumber plant every single time. And that simple mistake is I accidentally let a cucumber on that plant over there that is dying back ripen. And once you allow a single cucumber to ripen on your plant, the plant will begin to die. And that's for a very simple reason. The purpose of a plant's fruiting cycle is simple. It is to perpetuate the species. It is to reproduce. And once a cucumber plant feels like it produced mature seed and that seed landed on the ground and that seed is viable, it no longer has a reason to live. It fulfilled its purpose. So once you let that cucumber plant produce a mature cucumber, it will then cease to have a will to live. It will cease to have a purpose and it will begin to die off. So what's a mature cucumber? A mature cucumber is a cucumber that is turned large and or yellow. Once a cucumber takes on that yellowish hue, it is then viable as mature seed. And once you let a cucumber turn yellow, the plant will no longer have a purpose to live and it will simply die back. And that is the only difference between these two plants. The foliage got so big and dense that I accidentally missed a cucumber on that plant down at the bottom. It turned large and yellow. And now that it produced that mature cucumber, it now wants to die off. It has no more will to live. Whereas this plant right here, I was, I didn't miss any cucumbers. I was meticulous with picking the cucumbers while they were small and young. So it still feels the need to keep living because it's, it's in a panic. I can't produce any mature seed. What if the fall is coming? I need to produce more fruit to have a better chance of having more and more seed. And that's what's going on here. And that is a way you can trick your cucumbers into having amazing production. So check this out right here. This cucumber plant right here, despite the fact that it's four months old, is still loaded up with fruits. I've been picking off of this cucumber plant pretty much every single day and it is still doing really well. It is still sending fruit. I'm going to pull these off. I'll have these for, uh, for dinner. Now this cucumber plant over here, you'll notice that this cucumber plant still does have some cucumbers on it. However, the plant is now in the dieback phase. So I'm going to simply pick these cucumbers off. Uh, this cucumber is going to cease to produce any more fruit. It's going to die back because it feels that its mission in life has been accomplished and it no longer has a reason to live. So at this point, you really need to just pull this plant and replace it because all it's going to become is a magnet to pests and disease that will spread to your garden. This cucumber right here is starting to turn yellow. This is exactly what will kill off your cucumber vines. If you ever let a cucumber look like this, it will result in the plants dying off. Now I'm going to give you my three tips to have the most successful cucumber harvest you've ever had. Tip number one, like I said, never, ever, ever let a cucumber start turning yellow anywhere on your vines. Check them every single day. Look through them. If you see any cucumbers that are starting to get large, pick them off. You don't even want a chance that they can get close to maturity. I made the same mistake right here with this vine. A cucumber was hidden down at the bottom underneath these, uh, underneath these containers and it turned yellow on me and now the whole vine died back. So now it has to be replaced. Tip number two, pick your cucumbers early and often. The more you pick your cucumbers, the more cucumbers you will get. That's because the cucumber plant will have a panic reaction. If you keep picking the cucumbers off when they're small, far before they reach maturity, the cucumber plant is going to freak out and think, oh my goodness, I can't produce any fruit. All my fruits being taken. I need to respond by pumping out even more and more and more fruit faster than whatever is taking it can get it. And that is how you have incredible cucumber production. The more you pick them, the more your cucumbers will give you in terms of fruit. So pick, pick, pick, and they will give, give, give. And the third tip I'm going to give you is succession plant your cucumbers. I have more cucumber plants that are ready to go in and replace this cucumber plant right here. I start new seed every six or seven weeks or so because even if you're perfect on your picking, cucumber plants just have short lifespans. They're not made to live long. Do not be that gardener that plants your cucumber vines in April or May and you want to push them all the way until frost. It's a waste of time. They get too beaten up by the sun, by disease, by humidity. Just assume that you're going to replace your cucumber vines after about 90 days or so. Here where I live in North Carolina, I grow four cucumber crops a year. I have my April planting. I had one that I already put in in June. I have one that I'm going to start now and believe it or not, I'm going to start more seeds probably in about another four weeks because I can grow these babies all the way until frost. So now I'm simply going to rip out all of my cucumber vines and I'm going to replace them with the brand new seedlings that I just showed you because they are going to take over and be the next fresh harvest. Now you may be asking yourself, is it okay to plant your new plants in the exact same spot as the old plants like you just did? And the answer to that question is yes, if you are positive that the cause of death was natural die-off like mine was. If the cause of death is due to a pest infestation or disease, you're going to want to relocate them to a new area that was not affected. And that right there is how you can avoid the most common mistake that gardeners make when growing cucumbers and how you can have the best cucumber harvest you've ever had. So everybody, I sure hope you found this video helpful. If you did, please make sure to hit that like button, subscribe to the channel, and ring that notification bell so you're notified when we release more videos like these. If you're curious about any of the products that I use for real in my garden, check them out down on my Amazon storefront link down in the video description for everything that I use in real life in my garden. And while you're there, check out my spread shop link for custom merch if you want to support the channel. Thank you all so much for watching and I hope to see all of you again on the next video. We haven't fed Dale yet and it's time for his breakfast, but this is how smart he is. He knows the difference between the sound of the ice hitting my coffee mug. No Dale in sight. And he knows the frequency of the ice hitting his bowl because I always get his water first before he eats. Uh oh. What do I hear? Oh boy, I hear a very exuberant young boy. Dale, how did you know I was filling up your water? Does this mean that you're hungry? Oh, that's a very smart, that's a very smart boy right there, Dale. Very sensitive hearing.