Pasture Soil Health Management HD
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7GWbOWJuAa4
Nonprofits & Activism
 Okay, great. All righty. Well, let me dive into it. So thanks for coming to the talk today. I'm going to talk to you a little bit about pasture soil health management. As Rich said, I work for the Natural Resources Conservation Service. I'm acting as the Northeast Regional Soil Health Specialist. When I'm not acting as the Northeast Regional Soil Health Specialist, I work as the state agronomist and state grazing specialist in New Jersey. Prior to that, I worked for NRCS in Pennsylvania. And prior to that, I worked for NRCS in Wyoming. And when I'm not working for NRCS, we have a farm. I run my family farm. It's a small farm in Pennsylvania of about 80 acres. We run 100% grass-fed beef. We do pastured hogs and we do pasture poultry. And we have a small CSA. And then we also sell at a couple of farmers markets. So we really try to tap into that, you know, the direct-to-consumer market. So I don't always practice everything that I preach. I'll talk to you about some mistakes that I've made personally. I'm throwing some science in there for those of you that are interested. And yeah, if you have any questions, just type them in the chat and I'll try to get to them all. So the first thing I want to do is just set up some soil health principles and how they relate to grazing. So NRCS identifies four different soil health principles. You might hear other agencies have more or less than that. But NRCS identifies the four. Minimize disturbance, maximize soil cover, maximize biodiversity, and maximize the continuous roots living in your fields. So I think the two, if you're not in a soil health system for grazing yet, I know some of you are still just thinking about getting into grazing. The two, in my opinion, that are easiest to start with is minimizing disturbance and maximizing your soil cover. So I think these are also really important for reducing erosion. You know, we can't really improve the soil health if we don't really have the soil there to improve. So the process of erosion is really a three-step process. The first step is just detachment of that soil particle. Maybe that's by water and a rainstorm, or it could be through wind. It can also be detachment caused by grazing animals. It can also be detachment caused by equipment. So that can happen a lot of different ways. And then the second step, we need to have transport. So that could be, you know, only a foot, or it could be 100 feet, that transport. And then the last step of erosion is the deposition. So you might see this if you have a fence at the bottom of the field. That fence over time might be getting a little bit shorter. You're wondering why you built that fence so short. It's probably because you have erosion coming down, and it's building up on that side of the fence. So your fence gets a little bit shorter. If we have a stream at the end of that hill, then that becomes sedimentation. And that obviously is not good either. So minimizing disturbance in the grazing system. We're really talking about, I'm trying not to overgraze those systems. If you are using a lot of annuals, I saw some of you are using annuals. That's great. I love annuals and grazing systems. Maybe try, whenever you're establishing those annuals, try using some reduced till or no-till methods of planting. If you do need to disturb the soil quite a bit, something that we can do to mitigate for disturbance and leads into the next one, maximize soil cover, is to plant a quick-growing nurse crop in there. And then, you know, a lot of plants are really good to do for that, because a lot of times our desirables, they might take a little bit longer to germinate and establish than something like an oats would. But if we want that quick cover, we can easily add that in there. And again, minimizing your tillage, maximizing your soil cover, not overgrazing, so we have a good canopy all the time. Those are simple things that we can do with management if you already have the equipment to do that. Maximizing the living root. So this one's also very important if you're using a lot of perennials. This is pretty easy, because we have our perennials that we have out there all throughout wintertime. I know on our farm, we were renovating a pasture, so we have a pasture out there right now. It was scheduled to get perennials planted in the fall, and that didn't get done. We didn't get to it. There was other priorities on the farm. So right now we just have a pasture out there that has nothing growing in it, and that's not ideal. It's not, we'll plant annuals in the spring. I don't like planting perennials in the spring where I'm from, just because the weed pressure is a little bit too high. But that's definitely not an ideal situation. Our animals are out there right now grazing off cowpea and millet stubble that they had grazed off in the summertime, but we really don't have anything growing or even dormant out there right now. So if we can avoid that from happening, we'll be pretty good in that realm as well. Now, maximizing biodiversity. Once you have a soil health system in place, I think maximizing your biodiversity is one of the most important things that we can do to really kick your soil health system up into another gear. And I'm going to be talking a lot about maximizing biodiversity at the end of the presentation here, or towards the end of the presentation. So I just wanted to go over real quick, you know, what are we talking about? I didn't see anybody say that you're grazing off corn stubble, so I won't talk about that too much. But I do want to try to hit on all different types of grazing systems through this presentation. And some examples, though, of what we're talking about with integrating all these four soil health principles. If we look at this top photo, the top left photo over here, you know, we've got corn stubble in there. We have a cover crop coming up, whether it was interseeded in the beginning of the season, flown on at the end of the season. So we have diversity. We have something covering the ground. We've got diversity again because the animals are there. Hopefully it's in a minimum till or reduced till system. So we're minimizing disturbance there on that one. I'll skip over the next one since nobody's doing just grazing off cropland. But adding animals to cropland is a really great way. If you have neighbors, if you're thinking about grazing, it's a great way to get your animals fed through wintertime. It's a great way to improve soil if you've got a neighbor that does corn. So grazing our perennials and our perennial pastures and our hay hay ground is obviously probably some of the most predominant types of grazing that we have. And we'll talk about those a little bit more as well. I think I was happy to see so many say that they graze off their hay fields because I'll talk in just a little bit. But you can definitely get a bump in production by grazing off your hay field. So we'll talk about that a bit. I'm glad to see you guys are doing that. Good job. And then the last photo here in the bottom left, we're talking there about more of that annual grazing. Somebody had to talk about annuals yesterday. So hopefully you tuned into that one. But I really love putting annuals in the system, help to renovate pastures. Or if you just have annual pastures, we can really maximize our biodiversity by adding different forages in, which we can add different grazing species in. You know, we have a live-in root. We can plan to have that live-in root throughout the wintertime. Hopefully we're using minimum till or no-till to get those established so we're minimizing disturbance. And obviously, if we're not overgrazing, we're going to have pretty good soil cover on these annual systems. So this is a slide here. It deals with corn, grazing off corn and cover crop, but it's transferable to some other systems as well. But over here on the left-hand side, we're really talking about a monoculture. Not a lot of diversity in this system. Really only one cash revenue. Then when we start shifting more to the right, we can see where we get a little bit more diversity in the system. And, you know, the more diversity we have, especially in the roots, the more infiltration we're going to have. There's different micro-populations that like one type of plant over another. So the more types of plants we can get in the system, the more diverse our populations will be. And then obviously over here on the right would be the ideal situation is that we've got multiple cash revenues coming off of our fields. We've got lots of diversity in the plants. We've got diversity in our animals. And that's all going to affect the root structures, the infiltration, how much water we're getting through that soil profile, how much air is in that soil profile, which is really important to a lot of our microbes. So just that's a quick overview on the soil health principles. I want you to kind of keep those in mind and think about maybe some principles that you know you're already doing. Some principles that you might be lacking on a little bit. And we'll talk about how you can improve those. And like I said, for those of you that are thinking about grazing, maybe start thinking about how you're going to integrate these into your system eventually. So I'm going to talk about some grazing strategies. And again, when I go over these, I'd like you to try to identify which grazing strategy you're using. And if you think that one's the most appropriate to you or if you'd like to shift to a different grazing strategy over time. So the first grazing strategy that I'm going to talk about is continuous grazing. I think folks pretty much know continuous grazing just having one or two big pastures. You're not really moving those animals around a lot. You know, maybe they're in a pasture every two or three months and then you move them. And then rotational grazing is definitely a step up from our continuous grazing. These pastures are more defined. We're moving on a rotational grazing system more on a day basis. So maybe every five days you're going to move them. Every four days, every seven days, whatever interval you're going to be moving those animals. A lot of times in these grazing systems, we see a lot more permanent fence for our interior fences as well as the exterior, obviously. But your rotational grazing systems are good, but we can get a little bit better than just moving every five days or every seven days. So then we get into what we call strip grazing. Strip grazing is a very, I would say, very reactive kind of grazing where we're going to respond or I guess dynamic is a better word. We're going to respond to the conditions out there. So instead of just moving every four days, every five days, every seven days, we're going to move those pastures and we're going to size those pastures based on the conditions at the time. Are we in spring flush time? Are we in summer drought time? We're going to adjust all those different pastures and how big they are and how often we're moving the animals to meet the site conditions. So for this, we're using probably exterior fence would be permanent. Our interior fences are going to be mostly temporary. So we can really change up the size of those pastures and make it a super dynamic system. So the next type of grazing that I want to talk about is mob grazing. Now, mob grazing is super high reward, but it's also very labor intensive and has very high risk associated with it. With our mob grazing, we're putting out a ton of animals or tons of animals on a site at a time, very small pasture. So we really want to cram those animals in there. The benefit we get from mob grazing is that we get a lot of trampling activity. And trampling activity is good if we don't have too much trampling where we're causing compaction. But what happens when we get these materials trampled into the ground a little bit more is that you get a really great connection between the material and the soil and the microbes in the soil, most importantly. So you get a lot of trampling going on. You also get really great manure distribution because you have so many animals in a small space. Now, these these areas, though, you only graze them once or twice a year because you hit them pretty hard when you hit them. Something that can go wrong very quickly is you can have compaction happen, especially when it's wet. So that's why I said it's really high risk with that compaction. But you also get some competition within individuals and herd also where those individuals will they know when they go into a new area, they really put their heads down and eat. Whereas if somebody is going into an area, you know, they know they're in there for five days, the animals kind of adjust to how long they're being moved in there and they'll actually change their grazing behavior based on that. So you get individual herd competition, which can up your production overall. Like I said, it's super labor intensive. You're talking about at least once a day moves. There are some people that do mob grazing and they move every hour of the day or every two hours of the day. Most of the time I'd say more doable is maybe twice a day, once a day, but very labor intensive, but super high reward. OK, two other systems that are pretty similar is we have creep grazing and we have forward grazing. So in a creep grazing system, you and it can be as fancy or as simple as you want. The idea of this is that your young stock move to a pasture ahead of your old stock. So they get the most palatable, the most nutritious forages out there first and then the old stock kind of come in and clean it up. So like I said, it can be as fancier, as simple as you want. This middle picture here is just showing some pigtail fences. It's tall enough for the calves to go under, but not tall enough for the cows to go under. Or something else, if you've got more permanent fences or like woven wire or something like that, is you can put in these creep gates. And so these creep gates can be simple. They can be fancy. You can buy them for a lot of money. You can make them out of a picket fence that you take some of the pickets off. You can make them out of if you have like an old iron headboard with the uprights in there, you can make it out of that. My dad one time trash picked like a bike rack. We use that as a creep gate. So really you can use any materials they have laying around to make these. And then forward grazing here. Forward grazing is very similar to creep grazing where the animals that have the highest nutritional need are going to go in the pasture first. The difference is they don't go back and forth. So it just doesn't have to necessarily be young stock. If you have animals dependent on where they are in their gestation that have higher nutritional value or if you're grazing different species of animals, you might want to put one ahead of the other. So one of the things and this is why mob grazing is so beneficial and we can do an entire day's training on nutrient management and grazing pastures. But I wanted to throw this in here because there is an overall goal when you're grazing that you want to get to one pile of manure per square yard. That's like our that's our ultimate nutrient distribution within pastures. So if we're in a continuous grazing system, we're going to take 27 years on average to get to that goal. If you're grazing every or moving every two days, it's going to take you about two years to get to your goal. So not only do you cut down from 27 years to two years, but you're meeting that goal 13 times over by the time that you would have met it if you were in a continuous grazing system. I think most folks are probably in this four day range. You're going to be hitting your goal between four and five days. So bale grazing. This is something that's coming out. Again, you can do an entire talk on just bale grazing. We don't do it at my farm because it kind of scares me. I want to be more confident that I know how to do it before I start doing bale grazing. But the idea with bale grazing is that instead of bringing your animals in in the wintertime, you're going to put them out where those forages are. Maybe you take those hay bales and you take them from your hay field and you put them in your pasture because you already have fences established in waters and things like that. So the real goal for bale grazing would be to actually graze your hay fields off because 75 to 90 percent of what the animals eat, those nutrients are going to come out the back end. So it makes sense to redeposit those nutrients right where they were harvested out of the ground. Right. And that's where in your hay field, that's where your hay is harvested. So if something else you can think about, if you want to give it a try, go ahead and try bale grazing. OK, so I want to talk to you about utilization rates a little bit and why animals, the longer they're in an area, why our utilization of those pastures will decrease. So I've heard a couple of different numbers. People say four to 10 days, 10 to 14 days. And it's really seasonally dependent, too. But I normally tell my folks that I work with, you know, five to seven days is going to be our tip and point where our utilization. We're going to start seeing a real decrease in this. Of course, this is a little bit seasonal dependent as well. But animals, they have really good spatial memories. So if they eat something that really their bodies respond well to. So it's very nutritious, very palatable, tastes good to them. You know, they're going to remember exactly where that plant was and they're going to go back and regraze that plant somewhere between five to seven days. This is important because if you're moving every 14 days, say, then you're going your animals are going to have the ability to go back and regraze the same plants over and over again. And why do we care about that? We care about that because that's really going to affect our root system. So our root systems are really one of the most important parts of our grazing system. With our root systems, you know, our roots feed our plants, our plants feed our animals and our animals. They feed our bank accounts. So if we want our bank accounts to grow, we need our root systems to grow also. The roots, they hold our soil in place. They're just total hotspots for microorganisms. You know, those roots are constantly dying off. That dead material gets left off, gets decomposed. And the more microorganisms that we have in the system, the faster recycling happens and faster other materials on the ground get cycled as well. It helps keep those pore spaces open for water, for air, for infiltration to occur. So we really, really want to make sure that we're talking about root management, or at least we're thinking root management when we're thinking pasture management. So I'm sure you've heard the take half, leave half principle. And this is a really good diagram over here on the left that I like that shows, you know, if we take 50% of that plant, we're not really affecting the root growth at all. Like those roots are going to still grow if we take 50% of that plant. Now, if we take 70% of that plant, those roots are going to stop growing 50%. So only half of our roots are going to continue to grow or to function for about 17 days, so about two and a half weeks. Now, if we graze that down 90% of the time, then we're going to have a complete stoppage of the growth of those roots for about two and a half weeks. So if we have an animal out in our pasture, and we allow them to go back and graze that plant after we've taken 50% off, say again, we use that two-week example, they go back and they re-graze that same plant. Maybe we're down to 70%. And then they go back and re-graze that same plant again, and we're down to 90%. And we've just essentially killed that plant. If we are grazing horses, they'll probably pluck that right out of the ground, and then it's gone. So we just need to make sure that we're thinking about these principles when we're grazing, because we're not going to be able to increase our soil health at all if we're not thinking about root management. So, you know, I talked about taking too much, but I also want to talk about taking too little. So I'm sure you all have seen this chart. You know, as our plants get more mature, they get less palatable. Our nutrients in those plants go down. Production typically goes down unless we add protein into the system, like through supplements and things like that. So I tell folks that beyond your infrastructure, your fences, your waters, things like that, one of the most important tools that you can have is some sort of mower that you can set at a higher height. So about six to eight inches, because if we can go in and clip these pastures after our animals have moved through them, reset anything that those animals had refused, then we can kind of keep everything at an even playing field and really help our production in those fields. Okay, I want to talk to you a little bit about the interactions between what's going on above the ground and below the ground. So one of the things I mentioned it before compaction, super concerned about compaction, probably one of the biggest issues that I deal with in people is compaction in their grazing systems. It can really wreak havoc on us. Or sheep or sheep or something like that. All that weight of that animal is really centered on to four little points. So it's not really spread out over space. It's centered on four little points where that animal is walking. Now, when they're walking, and most of our animals, they walk and eat, you know, or ruminants will eat and ruminate, but they're still walking quite a bit. You have that action where kind of that angular action where it's more than just straight down compaction. We have compaction and then, you know, sloughing off of soil and things like that every time they're walking. So there's a story I always tell people. We had a really rainy spell about two years ago, and I had put my cows out into one of our good pastures, and I was moving them every two days. But even with the rain or the two-day moves, we got quite a bit of compaction out there in that pasture. And we're still feeling the effects of that now. So that was just, you know, two days. Two years ago, I'm still dealing with it now. And we're going to have to just go in and renovate that pasture because it's just not as productive as I want it to be. So definitely think about your compaction management when you're thinking about this. And, you know, as we're compacting, that's just closing those spaces for the air. It's closing spaces for water. It's closing spaces for those roots to really grow. And we want those roots to have a nice, you know, open soil to grow through. Okay. One of the things that I love is this study right here. It was done. There's a couple charts on here, but I really just want you to focus on this one that is circled here. So there was a study that was done that compared what happens if we just go in and clip a pasture versus what happens if we go in and actually graze a pasture. And what they found was that there's actually a response in the plants to saliva in our typical grazing animals. And what happens is, is when something is grazed off and that saliva hits the plant, there are signals that are sent to that plant. Somehow this works. And that plant actually grows a little bit better when it's in contact with saliva versus just being clipped off. So one of the cool things is they found that not only does the plant grow more, but the biggest effects were that the below ground biomass, that root system, that was the one, that's the part that's most affected by the saliva is that that underground root system grows a lot more versus just clipping that off. And then something else they found is that the saliva actually accelerates the carbohydrate mobilization during regrowth. So not only are those roots growing a lot better when we have saliva in the system, but we also have better regrowth. That plant can rebound quicker to that grazing activity. So one thing that I absolutely love to talk about, you can't talk about soil health and pastures unless we talk about dung beetles. So if you guys aren't thinking about dung beetles in the systems that you have, you need to start thinking about dung beetles. And if you're just starting out grazing or thinking about it, I want you to think about how can you increase the dung beetles in your system. So dung beetles are just so crucial to the health and the management of our soils. And I'll go through a couple different types of dung beetles. So, well, there's hundreds of different types of dung beetles out there, but they all fit into three different categories. So the first category are our shredders. Now, our shredders are going to live right here at the top of the ground and the bottom of the paddy interface. So these guys are really going to work internally in that paddy and really shred that debris up. And like we know that the smaller pieces have more surface areas. They're more reactive. They're easier to cycle through the system. So they're going to really start breaking down that paddy from the inside for us. Now, our rollers, I think they're probably the most known types of dung beetles. You see, you know, videos of like these little beetles rolling these huge pieces of dung around. So the rollers are important because they can really help distribute that manure further out into the pasture. Otherwise, it's just going to stay right there in the paddy right where it was deposited. And our tunnelers, our tunnelers are great because they will take that nutrients and debris in the manure and they'll bury it. They can go about 18 inches into the ground. So they'll bury it pretty far into the ground. And if we're working with just perennial systems, we know that we can get some nutrient stratification in those systems. So this can really help with that. It helps put roots, you know, or get nutrients to where the roots are growing, not just at the surface, but at the lower levels as well. You know, the tunnelers, they also help create some of those macro cores. So, again, we're thinking about how can we open up the soil a little bit more and get more water, more air, more infiltration. Any place we have water and air, we're going to have a lot more microbes working, especially if there's nutrients associated with that. So you might think, okay, well, that's great. But how is that going to help my pocketbook, right? So I and I thought the same thing when I heard about this about four years ago. I'm like, yeah, I love it. But financially, how is it going to help me? So you have a manure distribution. We had already talked about that. But this picture here is from Oklahoma, but it's transferable to the eastern part of the country. So if you have a pasture that isn't fertilized as well as it should be, or maybe even if you do have a well-fertilized pasture, you'll see wherever those animals deposited manure, they're going to avoid those areas, right? They're not going to go back and eat areas where there might be like parasites and things like that. They're just built to or wired to avoid those areas. So if you take all of those areas in your field and mentally just go out, look where all those areas of refusal are, and you take them and you put them all together, how big of an area do you now have that's not being utilized, right? So for me, that was quite a bit at our farm. And so when we started working with dung beetle management and really trying to improve our dung beetles, we were able actually to up our stocking rates a little bit because we had so much less refusal than we did before. So we're getting more forages that we're actually using out of those pastures. Something else that's a big benefit, if you're worried about flies or parasites, you know, a lot of our flies and parasites, they need those patties for some part of their life cycle. If that patty is not there or it's broken down very quickly, then that's going to hurt our parasite and our fly populations. And you might say, okay, this is great, but how do I improve dung beetles? So what you can do, you know, higher intensity grazing, obviously, the more patties you can get in an area, the better it is going to be for those dung beetles because they're going to have more food in one area. Our dewormers are probably the most important thing to think about. There's very few dewormers that are dung beetle friendly. Moxidectin, cydectin would be the name that you see on the shelf. They are dung beetle friendly. A lot of our other ones are not. But you don't want to use cydectin over and over and over again. So something that we do at our farm is if we have to deworm in the spring, in the summer, in the early fall, we'll use cydectin. But we'll use another dewormer in the winter or, yeah, I guess late fall or winter where the dung beetles aren't as active. So that way we're just not affecting those dung beetles as much. But we're not using the same dewormers over and over. Okay. One talk to you about maximizing our biodiversity. Like I said, this one is so important. And for so many different reasons, we're going to talk about it. So I love this sign here. It's from North Dakota Extension Center. Grazing systems that utilize only one species, such as cattle, leave additional grazing opportunities on the table. But I really think that we need to be thinking about not only the grazing species, but our forages also. So when we are grazing multi-species, we can really utilize. This goes both ways. So we can, if we have a lot of different forages out in the pasture, we want to make sure that we're utilizing all those forages. And on the flip side, if we have different grazing species, we want to make sure that we have a diversity of forages that our grazing species are actually going to utilize. So they kind of, whether you have multi-species grazing now and you're replanting pastures, or if you have pastures now and you want to bring in more animals, this is a good thing to think about. So, you know, our horses, they're going to eat mostly grass and desirable legumes, mostly grass, though. Very few weeds, very few growls. Our cattle, they'll go eat some more like Forby stuff, some more undesirables, just if they get it when they swing their tongue around. If it comes out in that clump, then they're going to eat it. Now, our sheep and our goats, our sheep, similar to cattle, but a little bit different. Goats are on like a whole different universe. So if you have a field that has some shrub ear stuff, it's got some taller weeds that just grow every single year, maybe some goats. Like if you don't have goats already, maybe add some goats into your system. That way you can utilize more of those forages rather than if you just had cattle or just had sheep. Anytime we can mix our grazing species together, we're just going to get better utilization. But what's really cool is then if we start picking what plants that we're going to grow for different grazing species, then we can really start working on some of our soil concerns that we have. So if we have just like horses out there or just grass out there, you know, fibrous root systems, we're going to be breaking up some compaction at the surface. But if we can add something else in there, maybe that has a taproot or add a legume in there, then we get a whole bunch of different things going. Then we're treating maybe low nitrogen. If you allow that plant to get to the point where it can create nitrogen, those taproots can really help break up subsoil compaction a little bit further down into the system. So we can accomplish quite a bit with just adding different plants into our system. You know, plantain and chicory are great for small ruminants. So if you don't already have that in your system, they are kind of pricey, those seeds, but they are commercially available. Maybe that's something you want to think about adding to your system and getting more diverse types of roots in your system there. Okay, so now growing seasons, obviously, if you're in the perennial arena, then this is going to be a little bit harder to do. But anytime that we can get more diversity in our growing seasons, again, we want to maximize that live and root all year long. We can try to do that. You know, in the summer slump, our warm seasons, we can very easily do this in an annual system, really plan for cool season and warm seasons to be growing. And again, different root systems we want to think about whenever we plant something is what do those roots look like underground and what benefits are those different roots going to give us. So a little bit harder to do if you're just doing like cool season perennials. You will have something growing all the time. Hopefully, it's not a monoculture. If it is, maybe you can overseed something. Or if you're renovating that pasture, don't keep it with monoculture. I know, hey, guys, you know, sometimes depending on your customers, I know a lot of people just want like Timothy around here and they don't want anything else mixed in or they just want orchard grass. So very dependent on your customers and what they'll tolerate as well. Okay, so I talked to you about, you know, some techniques for grazing. Again, I want you to think about where you are in your grazing system now or what kind of grazing system you want to set up. And I'm going to now talk to you a little bit about some things that that you can do to kind of monitor your system and see if your soil is actually improving or decreasing. One of the things, though, that I do want to say is that you if you are grazing, you absolutely need to have a contingency plan. If it's written down, that's great. If it's in your head, that's good. At least you thought about it. But your contingency plan is going to be based on your soils. And it's going to tell you exactly what to do if we're in a drought. It's going to tell you what to do if we have a flush like in the spring or late fall. It'll tell you what to do when it's really rainy. It'll tell you what to do in the wintertime. So these contingency plans, I tell my folks in New Jersey when we're writing grazing plan, this contingency plan is where I want them to spend the most time thinking about. This way, if you like when we had that two weeks of rain, I should have said, I'm going to take these animals off of this field that's easily compacted. I didn't. And now I'm dealing with those consequences still two years later. But if you have a contingency plan in place, then they'll just set you up to deal with anything that, you know, Mother Nature throws at you because nothing ever goes as planned. Some things that you can use for your contingency plan. I focus heavily on using soil survey information. So the Web Soil Survey is a great resource for this. The interpretations I like to use. Capability and sub-capability class are good interpretations. They'll give you a good overview of what your soils can and cannot handle. Organic matter depletion. Again, susceptibility to compaction. Those are two interpretations from the Web Soil Survey that I use heavily when writing my contingency plans. It'll tell you which parts of your farm are more susceptible to compaction, more susceptible to organic matter depletion. And, you know, maybe if you're just in an area where it's always rainy in the spring and you have parts of your farm that have higher susceptibility to compaction, you just know we're not going to start there in the spring. We're going to start on the other side of the farm where compaction, we're not so susceptible to compaction or organic matter depletion. Vegetative productivity is another one that's in there. This will give you a face value based on your soil. It'll say this soil can produce this many tons per acre per year. I don't really like using the numbers that they give me, but I like using it to see trends. You know, like this part of the farm is more productive than this part of the farm. So I can expect to be able to put more animals out where it's more productive than where it's less productive. Other interpretations, depth to water table, pond and flooding frequency, I often use. There are hundreds of interpretations on the Web Soil Survey. Lots of good information. So if you have never been on the Web Soil Survey, poke around on that. Definitely use that to kind of build the grazing system that you're going to be using. I will say that the Web Soil Survey, it's based on soil survey data. It's not always correct. And it's done at a very zoomed out level. So if you have a very small property, you'll probably get an error saying that it's too small. Those interpretations are not meant to be so zoomed in. And sometimes the mapping is just wrong. You know, soil scientists aren't perfect. So if it doesn't match up with the characteristics that you know on your farm at all, you're probably not going crazy. It's probably just mapped a little bit incorrectly. Or there's some weird soil inclusion or something in there that wasn't accounted for. Okay. So monitoring. I really think that if you have a system in place, or even if you're going into a system, you're going to have to monitor. And I really think that we need to monitor our animals, our plants, and our soils to really get a comprehensive picture of where we are right now versus where we want to be. And to be able to track, is our soil health declining or is it increasing? And we really should be monitoring our animals, our plants, and our soils in order to get that good comprehensive picture. So something that's easy to do to monitor your animals. Body condition scores. And you'll get this presentation when I'm done. And there's hot links in the presentation. So if you want to click on any of these resources, just click on them in the presentation. And they'll be available to you. So body condition scores can really tell you how your forages are behaving. And that can tell you, obviously, how your soils are behaving. Again, there's, like, going to be some seasonal flex in there. But what I do is I have a Polaroid-like camera. And I go out during the grazing season. And every month I take a picture of my animals, every individual. And I have a little book. And in that book, everybody has a page or two or three. And I take that picture and I stick it in that book. And if I see over time that the entire herd, they start, you know, their body condition scores start going down. That lets me know something's going on out there. They're not, you know, maybe those fields aren't as productive as I thought. They're not getting the minerals. They need something's going on that I need to check into that. And if you see just one individual that's not doing well, then that's a key. Maybe that, maybe you need to, like, deworm. Maybe there's something else health-wise going on with that individual. So body condition scores, keeping track of those are really important. Something else that we can do for our plants. This is a very NRCS-centric tool, but it's pretty easy to use. It's the Guide to Pasture Condition Scoring. So you can look at that. You can use, there's a bunch of different indicators. You can use one or all of them. If you have problems, talk to your NRCS office. They'll be able to help you walk through this. Something else we can do, which we should be doing anyways, is record keeping. So keeping track of our turn-in heights, keeping track of our turnout heights. We can use grazing sticks to do this. This will really help us find trends where maybe we see that a field is rebounding. Maybe it's taking, like, on average, like, four more days than normal to rebound year from year. Then we definitely know there's something going on in our soils or in that plant population where it's just not rebounding well enough. Hopefully, you start seeing that those plants actually, or, yeah, those plants rebound quicker. And that's going to give you a good indication that your soils are improving. And that's being able to be able to get those plants to regrow a little bit quicker. So something else that you can do, fallen plate meters. This is a really good indication of how much forage you actually have out on the site. West Virginia University has a great publication on how to build these. I have one. I think it costs, like, less than $30 to build one. And it gives you a great estimation of how much forage you have out there, which can also help with your grazing systems if you're using more of those very dynamic strip grazing systems. Okay, so our soils. How can we monitor our soils? Again, a very NRCS-centric tool, but it's very easy to use. I really like it. It's the Cropland Infield Soil Health Assessment. It is built for cropland, but it's transferable to pasture. This will help you track trends over time in your pastures. Obviously, soil testing. We got to do soil testing if we're going to be monitoring our pastures and crop fields and hay fields. And it can be a simple soil test. I would definitely recommend simple soil tests, at least with the organic matter testing with it. But minimum, get yourself a soil test. If you want to get really into soil testing with soil health, you all are probably familiar with the Cornell Soil Health Assessment, which gives a really deep dive into all the soil health properties of that soil. So those are just some monitoring tools that you guys can think about. So I would say, know where you are. Where's your baseline? What kind of system do you have right now? What kind of production do you have right now? Where do you want to be and how are you going to get here? Or how are you going to get there? So this is my farm fail Cyrus. He's a steer that's totally worthless that we fell in love with. So he's a permanent resident with us now. And he's a troublemaker. But, you know, he got stuck in the hay feeder one day. And I was like, I don't know why. I don't know where he thinks he was going. I don't know where he thought he was going to get to. But I just like this photo because it just makes me think about, yeah, I should probably rethink some of my life choices. And Cyrus probably should, too. So that's it. I'll take any questions. If there's questions, if you want to reach out to me, there's my contact information. And thanks for listening today.