Permaculture Water Retention Techniques on the Farm pays off big in a drought.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7Mzv7ooJ3QE
People & Blogs
 All right, welcome aboard everybody. This is Steve at Thousand Year Home. So out here I'm just solo building and this is a real world build. There's not, you know, bank money and a whole bunch of money. I'm building from paycheck to paycheck just like they did 50 years ago. And I can only build so much at a time. So when you come visit me, I'm homesteading, I'm building these shipping containers. They're looking pretty good inside, but I'm slow, which is an honest approach, especially here in Texas where the heat and the drought has been something fierce. But it rained last night and it rained really solidly and it kept me up all night long. So I'm a little tired, but let's go ahead and walk around today, see how successful the rain has been or not. The horses are up. They're showing me that their muddy is all get out. So they've at least got a little cooling off. Let's take a look. Okay. Let's real quick, just show you what's going on so you can get an idea as I drive around. So right here you see, there's the farm. This is a satellite image that's about a year old. So there's the shipping containers. What I've done today is I've driven you up to this stock pond, which was dry. So this one was mostly dry and we've taken a look at some other things. First off, on this particular satellite image, if I scroll in, it doesn't even have the pond that I built right here with here where I, first off, let me scroll in a little bit. So right here is the pond that I went ahead and just dug and put the bridge over. So from the house walking over, now I have this little pond right in here in this woods. There is the two gardens that I have right there. So there's the gardens. So you'll see that I've done a lot of water management already. So let me go ahead and zoom back out for you all so you can see the complete property. So the couple of different things that I'm doing here. So one thing that I'm doing is I'm building a swale that will run through here. Let me go ahead and just get brown. So this swale runs through here and I'm trying to pick up the water out of this area. So I've got a little swale coming out here and it goes down and it goes all the way up to here. So you can see that this area, if you look at it closely, that it drains over to here. So I'm hoping that I can pick up all of that water that drains. Now this didn't drain at all here during this rain, but that doesn't surprise me because you know, we've had a drought. So all of this water here that gathers up, what I want it to do is flow down here, go through the new bell gate that I have, run through here, and then find its way down to here. Now what I've decided to do is I've decided to go ahead and dig out underneath this fence and run a couple more swales down to here. You can see the cattle are gathered up just like this. So I'll have three swales that'll be running down in. Now these don't exist yet, but I'll go ahead and do them. But what did exist and what did work is right here, you can see there's a wet spot in the field, right, right through here. And what I'm going to do is I'm going to go ahead and I put in that test pond right here. And so that test pond is in and it's successful. And, you know, I've got a little tiny sweat ditch really that I just dug over to here and it's topped off right now. So those are the things that I'm doing. I'm trying to gather up the water here, pipe it down a swale into the pond. So instead of this dried up pond, I'll have a filled one. Then this paddock will have a pond, that paddock will have a pond. And then this paddock, what I'll end up doing is dividing it out. So there is a stream that runs through here, a ditch rather, that runs through here and dumps all the water into here. And then it all runs down to Butcher Creek. So what I want to do is I want to harvest that. So a couple of different things. Right now this is spilling, spillway through into the garden and then it'll run over to here and down. This thing, when it tops off, you could see that it runs this way. What I want to do is one final pond and it will be a large pond that I'll build and build it over in this tree area. And I really want it to be a two or three acre pond so that I can capture as much water as possible. Now through the property, I have a swale that goes here already and one that runs through here and they both dump out already right through these trees. It's where they go through into the creek. And so I'll be building this pond eventually. And I want it to be a couple acres pond and I want it to be, I don't know, 18 feet deep. So with that, I'll have a pond, one, two, three, because hopefully this thing will hold water. Three ponds. And if I can get it filled up, I might even do, you know, expand out the pond a little bit here. But first, let me dig it deeper and get these swales going so it doesn't go dry in the droughts. And then this pond and then these swales here, they're working out pretty good. So all of the, everything that I'll capture in these areas, you know, all of that water that I'm going to capture in this area and run down this swale, you know, we'll dump into that pond. I have to build these swales. They don't exist yet. This one and this one. And that fence row has got a wall built up along it. So the water kind of runs this way and is escaping into the creek like that. So anyway, that's what's going on in this little roundabout. So, oh, the last thing that I did is down here, I'll put in white. You know, I have the little stock tank that I put in and it's only a little bit full, but that's a lot of different water solutions. And on three inches, I already picked up a little bit here. I filled this off. This didn't work here, but it will, right? The theory is there. That one worked really well. This one is sort of kind of working and that doesn't exist yet, but it will. So, and this doesn't exist yet. So really happy with the overall water plan. It might take me more than a year or two to get it done, but I will get it done. And then during the drought, you know, July, August, September, you know, October, I'll be digging each one of these ponds as I can go. The swales will be the first thing up here that I'll do because I've already started them. And I want to get seed back on the fields as soon as possible. So without that further ado, let me jump back into the video and you guys can watch the actual physical outcome of this game plan. All right. So as my mud beasts are showing here, we actually had some rain around here for a change. Three inches is what my neighbors report. My weather gauge is not currently working. So what I do is we'll go take a look at the pond. We'll take a look at some of my other materials. I got to pick up all of my wet boxes that the UPS guy just left on the side of the road without plastic bags. That's always pleasant. So let's take a look here. Now, one thing I did wrong was I did not get the salt block out of the water. So this is always a bummer when this happened, but I leave it evaporate, dump oats in it. They still get the, uh, you know, the salt lick out of there, but that looks, I'm underneath trees. So that's looking like three inches, right? Maybe even a little more. If I look at that wheelbarrow. Now let's go take a look at some other things. Well, that looks pretty good for a no water garden. Uh, you know, nothing else grew in here. I found a composting place for me to go ahead and put compost over the top of that box. But, uh, let me tell you, my, uh, it came too late to save my sunflowers. Either that or the horses got in there and ate them all. Not sure what happened there. Disaster in that sunflower field. I don't see anybody left, but they do look eaten rather than anything else. And I, I don't actually keep the horses out of that. It doesn't matter to me, but something got that. Wowee. Well, three inches is the magic number to take this from, uh, dry to filled right up. This looks really, really good. Uh, man, this year was so dry. It went dry twice. So there won't be any frogs in here that I can think of unless they buried themselves in the mud. Uh, I'll go ahead and pull the weeds out of the, there. I don't like that one. We not half bad everybody. So those have been, I'll get some pictures of this when it's dry. So you all can appreciate. Now I have seen this as a running water and it runs this way. So what I'm doing here is, uh, from the, um, uh, pond, I'm going to make a swale and I'm slowly working on it and the swale will go around and it'll go around here. And if you look there into the garden, you could see that I've got a swale beginning where the water will go flow into the gardens and then out that way to a river. Looks really good. Oh my gosh. I have been, I might be able to make it this year for water for my horses without having to bother my poor neighbors anymore. That's really, really good. This side I, I got, I put gypsum in it. And so this side ends up getting clear and, uh, I might do the same thing to that pond. My chickens are out in the, in the forest. All right, let's go ahead and get a, uh, in my, uh, UTV and go and drive and see what else we've got going on here. All right. Well, I'll tell you this rain really changed my mood. I just can't do in five months. We got like two inches of rain. I just couldn't do it anymore. I, I, I'm not built that way. And, uh, I grew up in Michigan where it's, you know, land of lakes and the rains all the time. And, uh, I never have adapted to Texas. And to be honest, when I watch everything die that I plant, it, uh, gives me a heaping helping of depression. So I'm very much a creature of my atmosphere, very much connected to the land. And, uh, you know, it doesn't take much, just some rain to cheer me up and a full stock tank. Uh, this thing is working out. Um, and I, I wondered if it would, that's just three inches. So if it rained a normal amount, I could dig this out even bigger and deeper and have a, um, you know, I would still keep the front for the horses to wade into. So it's a ramp there, but the rest of this, I would dig out, uh, pretty deep and pretty narrow. I try to retain as much moisture as I can, but, uh, this end of the house, I'm real happy with, I've got grass seed. I've got long stem, uh, uh, you know, bluegrass to plant. And some other things, uh, natives, uh, grass seed here, I'll put it in the ground. Um, it's supposed to maybe rain again this week. Now I'm not declaring victory. I'm fully expecting, uh, to see, you know, uh, the drought continue through, you know, July, August, September, but it was over 101 degrees in the summer here. And everything that I had was, was dying. I, the horses were having to hang around me all day long. And, um, because the grass is too stringy when it doesn't get any moisture in it and it's really hard to graze. So I was feeling their complaint. Uh, and, uh, anyway, I'm, I'm so much happier with this. Let's go up and we'll take a look at my test, uh, stock tank that I dug as well as my swale that I put in to try to redirect more water. I don't know if it got enough rain for that or not, but we'll find out together. Well, there's a whole herd of buzzards here. I don't know why. It's still roaming around. I don't see anything for them to be eating. Maybe they were just having a convention. That there is all of the cedar that I'll end up stripping for, uh, coyote fence. I'm just moved it out of my way so that, uh, the needles can fall off of it and I can go through. I also, uh, will run this over with my brush hog. I can run up to three inch, uh, size logs. So that's how I, uh, I, uh, mulch it, right? So I'll turn that all into mulch. Sure made the field look a lot better. I did get grass, uh, head, so, uh, hopefully it'll reseed. The cattle haven't been out here because there's no water for them to drink. This dock tank I'm coming up to has been empty and, uh, the cattle, if they did use it, they would have had the trump and the mud knee deep, but that's not safe. Yeah, yeah. So, uh, for reference, the, uh, the pond used to be up to the bottom of that tree root right there, right? So, uh, it got a little water. It was all cracked and whatnot, but not nearly enough. Let me see if my swale worked. Doesn't look like flowing water went into it. It looks like the idea might work. But I'm just gonna have to cut it in deeper. Some shallow spots there. Okay. So that bit of rain wasn't enough to cause runoff here along that old Pioneer road that used to be a road that would go to a dip tank as well as some other go off into church or wherever it went i don't know so that feels like my pond idea there might work but i'm going to require more than three inches of rain after five months of drought right yeah i don't see anything that happened this wasn't enough rain oh i'm wrong oh looky there oh that's a four and a half foot hole i'm gonna take a look at it right now pretty pretty excited my idea did work like i say that's a four foot test hole huh well all right well i'll scrape the land with my uh my little tractor and i'll make a little half acre pond here all right wow wow man that that would be awesome i would have uh i would have then two ponds uh i'd have this pond i would have that pond in these paddocks so each paddock would have a pond man that is exciting stuff all right another success that i'm super happy about looky you know that was just a wild hair that i got that um based on the lay of the land and how it ran into this arroyo over here if i can hijack it and get it to come it and i could put a pond in here and uh look uh that i did it so uh the plan will be a similar sized pond with a decent ramp for the cattle to come in but narrow and deep in order to kind of keep as much water as possible now i'll be losing a little bit of uh uh pasture to this pond but it'll more than make up for it because uh i'll be able then to close off both paddocks and then i can density graze each one so the cattle and horses um they'll they'll last a little longer so my bell way down there where i'm slowly working on the fence uh uh i i might get excited about and finish up but now that it's cooler uh i'll be i'll be back on the sawmill uh i just couldn't handle the tin there too hot but uh this is super exciting i feel like i've won and uh you know that's not a mud uh just a mud puddle that thing's four foot deeper so i'll put some uh some of the video of me digging that uh super exciting man i am happy about that so and so will the wildlife they'll they'll appreciate that little little drinking spot and so will the cattle ah just so happy well i'm pretty happy with the results of what little bit of uh water collection i've got going on here i've been working on it for a few years the first year i wasn't out here living uh i had an apartment but uh i went and collected uh you know images and paid attention and came out so my last bit of uh water is this tank and leah and i went ahead and repaired it and it was dry i can see that it's uh gosh not not very full just the three inches now i was expecting to collect more water than that from here but what i'll do is i'll get uh aluminum tape and i'll tape along the gutter and the uh convolution i think i'm losing you know half the water um through each one of the uh uh ridges and peaks of the corrugation so i'll go ahead and tape that up so that i can capture more water this was just all jury rigged right now temporarily i wanna i've got i found enough uh um uh eaves to run the other side i'll put a bulkhead here rebuild this i need this to be about half full so before i can um uh go ahead and put the walls around it because uh i'm expecting it to change shape once it gets filled with water so i was hoping more would be in there than the the three inches but i'm grateful for the three that are there uh i can see based on the bottom there's water underneath it causing a little uh you know it can't burp out of there etc etc but uh i'll just live with it the way it is once i get it full then i can you know use this for agriculture keep my gardens green uh get some additional trees out here that was destroyed destroyed in the storm destroyed it was already torn up but the roof was still there so win some lose some all that will be moved when i'm done with the sawmill area i've got enough storage in there i can move all of that and so i'll get the sawmill all set up way back yonder uh working hard doing a lot of different things but uh when the when the heat is the way it is and it's over 101 and you know you can't touch tin and all i'm doing is working with metal and uh it's hard for me to keep positive energy going so you know i look for little jobs to do like clearing a tree or something like that uh working at the front on the gate just little things like that but they're not forward progress on the living on the living arrangement uh watch this year i've got high ambitions to get the real foundations underneath here as well as the roof etc etc etc and uh daylight's burning and uh we'll see if i can accomplish this so a little bit of work here to do on the uh you know i want to make sure that this thing catches all the water it can and fills up uh so i'll be working on that i might cut across here and grab that one too and see if i could double up the capacity uh i should be getting about 340 gallons per inch of rain off of there and maybe uh you know that's a 5 000 gallon tank so you know it takes a lot of water to fill it up uh but i need it at least half filled so that the walls are pushed out so that i can earth bag it about and stucco it and you know not make it an eyesore it's an eyesore uh but it's an eyesore because uh i gotta get that yet i don't have any water out here i'm a dry cabin so i gotta get that filled up with some water so that it's the right size and then i can fix it up make it look nice fix up the bulkheads uh you know do these eaves they're temporary too so they're just up there with magnets uh there's a lot of things to do but i'm pretty excited about this bit of rain i appreciate it much uh really changed my moods and uh grateful to god because i complain i have a relationship with god that's very vocal and uh so you know uh i appreciate the the rain being out here and fill it up and hopefully it'll continue on you