Farm Equipment Dealer Since 1907 - Wm. Nobbe & Co.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7Nd0JaHJefU
Entertainment
 Hey folks, Machinery Pete here. I'm on the road and I'm in Waterloo, Illinois. And a very cool story I wanted to share. I grew up in a dealership family myself, and I haven't run across many dealers with a 110-year history. I'm here with William Noby and Company. And on the left we have Tom Noby, and on the right his son Brad. Now Tom, you are the president and CEO. I am, yes. And Brad, you are a large ag sales? That's correct, yes. Okay, well, 110 years, 1907. How did William Noby get started? Well, it got started by my grandfather's older brother. His name was William. And he started it, and then my grandpa and another brother actually followed in recent years after that. Okay. And they had binders and all the horse-drawn equipment and reapers, buggies, and it evolved into the tractors. And we had Samson, McCormick Deering, J.I. Case. And then the cars, the advent of the cars came about. They started selling those. And then... The advent of cars. Yeah, yeah. So then they spun off and got into the car business separately. And then my grandfather took off with the farm equipment business. And it was January 2nd of 1929 when they actually signed the contract with John Deere. Wow. January 1-29. Yep, yep. Wow. And Tom, what year did you get involved to come back? I actually started working. I worked as a kid in the dealership. But I actually got on the payroll in 68. And I actually did go to college, but I went to college the last three semesters at night and then worked full-time during the day. Okay. It was in my blood. I really... I just loved being around the dealership. Very cool. And I was really fortunate to be able to do everything that you could possibly do in a dealership. And I think that's a big advantage with... Learning from the ground up. Yep. No question. Very cool. And Brad, you got involved in the business in the... Was it the 90s? So as a kid, in the 90s, yeah. But full-time was 2008. And that was actually right whenever Precision Ag started to become a much bigger deal in the dealerships. In fact, I was already kind of working a little bit on that kind of stuff when I was in college. Okay. But started with that and did that for five years. And my dad's cousin, Brian, was in business with him for all those years. He retired at the end of 2013. And at that time, I filled his position as the manager of large ag sales. And we have a brother. Your brother, Jared, is in the business too? He is, yeah. So Jared handles the turf and small ag side of the business. We're pretty fortunate. We have a nice diverse customer base. So we got a lot of turf and small ag customers as well as large ag. And we think that's a huge benefit to have specialization in both. Right. It takes a lot of load off of the two of us. And I think it helps support our people better too. You guys, Waterloo, Illinois, is how far are we from St. Louis here, guys? We're about 30 minutes from downtown St. Louis. So as that metro has grown over the years, I imagine that must be a very strong lawn and garden, small utility tractors. How's that market been here the last couple of years? It's been pretty good. It seems like the turf business just gets a little bit better every year. What's more exciting for us is the small tractor business seems like it experiences really good growth year in, year out. So that's been exciting for us and significant for a lot of our locations, especially the hay dominant locations. Tom, you kind of got in the business in the late 80s. 89, you said? Yeah, that's when we bought my uncle and my dad. Oh, right, right. Okay. Yep. So you've seen some changes here. Oh, my. I have. Speak to that. I mean, you grew up in the business as a kid and you see where it's going and what Brad is doing now on the tech side. I mean, amazing changes. The equipment itself, the technology involved in the equipment is just phenomenal. I was really glad, like Brad's point, him coming on board because he brought a lot to the table with the precision point end of the business. But yeah, there's been so many changes. And I think back to my grandpa, if he had an opportunity to be back here, he would be amazed. What would he say at the 9620 RXs? Yeah, he would say, I think I told you last night, we had our employee meeting and we had the RX out there in front of there and then we were flying drones out there that we sell. And I can't even imagine what he would think of that today. Wow. Well, that's pretty exciting to live through those changes and help your customers along the way. And Brad, that's got to be an exciting part of the business, the technology side, helping your customers. I mean, that's kind of where it's at today, isn't it? Yeah. And we know there's a lot of room for growth as well. So we know that it's just going to continue to get easier to manage that data and it's going to become more important to manage that data and to have smarter machines. So I had a customer tell me one time, it always kind of resonated with me. He said, you know, my whole life I've seen, I've seen equipment get bigger. And he goes, it just can't hardly get much bigger. He goes, I know what his son, Kevin, he said, I know you and Kevin, what you guys are going to see is you're going to see equipment just get smarter and smarter. Smarter and smarter. I think that's a, that's a very accurate assessment looking forward. That's, um, can I quote you on that? Absolutely. That's awesome. Well, Brad, what, uh, so what was that like coming back into business, you and your brother working with, with pop? It's fun. You know, the biggest thing is all three of us are really passionate about it. We, we, we love what we do. We, we enjoy it. It's kind of, to some degree, it's kind of our, our hobby. Sure. Um, so that, that makes it exciting because you're working with, uh, you're working together every day and you know that everybody's working toward the same goal. Right. Um, so that makes it, makes it fun. And it's, uh, a lot of times there's a good, good debate between the three of us. So that's, that's always good as well. So you guys have an open line of communication. Absolutely. Yeah. Very cool. Now let's flip this and dad, you have your two sons in the business. What, what is that like? It's, uh, it's an awesome experience. There's no doubt about it. It's, uh, to be able to work closely with them, uh, day in and day out. I mean, that's just really unique and, and to be able to, like he said, get along and respect each other is pretty phenomenal. Um, we, you know, I, they did spend, um, two, two different dealerships each, uh, summer internships. That's some pretty good dealers. And they had a, they both, I think I've gained some valuable experience out of that. Sure. Hmm. Interesting. That's, uh, I think that's smart to give the, give the young guys exposure to different organizations and what, what did you bring back from that Brad back home? Yeah. So the one, the one I spent the entire summer in parts and it was interesting because the plan was to move me around in the different locations and, uh, I got comfortable in parts and they, uh, I think they were comfortable with what I was, what I was providing. So, uh, learned a lot about parts that probably drove our, uh, our corporate parts fans are here crazy, just asking him questions about how we do things and if it's the same. And the second time I, I worked with a guy in Kansas on Precision Egg and, uh, was very, very good. And, uh, that made it a whole lot easier for me when I started full time and in 2008, uh, spent the summer with him. So I got a feel, uh, I think that they were probably a little bit further ahead of the curve. Sure. And it was really helpful for me to get a start. Bring that knowledge back home. Yeah, absolutely. Very cool. Thankfully, we were just really fortunate to be able to offer that opportunity to at the dealers. Right. I think that was a really neat thing on their part. Yeah. Very cool. And now, okay, we got 110 year history. We're here with William & Obey & Company. So 110 years, but you guys are, are kind of on the cutting edge on a lot of things you've done here. Tom, I'm just interested to learn about them. Some on the, on the service side. Why don't you talk about that, some of the things you've done here over the last 20, 30 years? Yeah. So probably in the late 80s, we, we felt the need for more space in the shop. Mm-hmm. And, um, decided to, to try to implement a second ship at Waterloo. And, uh, we had an employee meeting, had every employee there. And we really thought we were going to have a lot of opposition to that. But we found that there was employees that really were on board with that, that they formed during the day. And that offered them an opportunity to work in the evening. Okay. And it's worked well ever since. And we, we don't have quite the space issue because we have additional buildings. But, uh, it's, it's provided a tremendous, uh, resource for our customers. Oh, I would imagine. To be able to take care of them, uh, for parts and service up to 1130. Brad, what do they, what do your customers say about that kind of around the clock ability to catch you guys? Yeah. So obviously it makes them, makes them feel a lot better. Um, and when they have that problem, I mean, nobody wants to ever have a breakdown, but we have it at seven or eight o'clock. It's, it's a lot more comforting, comforting to be able to pick up the phone. And I know that you're not bothering somebody in their evening, that you're calling somebody that's, that's there to help them. Um, and, and, uh, the biggest thing I always say is to put a plan in place. You know, a lot of times we can fix it right, right that night, but if we can't, right. Uh, we're able to kind of put a plan in place for the next day and make sure we got the parts secured and, uh, and the person in line to go get that job done. I got to ask you guys, we were filming this morning for us farm report out with one of your customers, a little bit north of here. And it was, what's shown through was the, the high level of trust with the customer that you guys have always been here. Tom, is that with 110 year history, is that been a key driver of your business that, that building that trust with the customer? It certainly has. And I, I guess, you know, I would give that credit to my grandpa and my father and my uncle, because they, they built that for us. All we had to do is maintain it and take care of it going forward. So we were really fortunate. And we actually, if I pan around here, folks, I think we have a picture on the wall. Why don't you guys walk over here and tell us, uh, who we're looking at here with the history of them? Okay. So the picture you're looking at right now, my father, Ed is on the left. That's my grandpa in the middle, Henry. And that's my uncle, Bob. Uncle Bob. Okay. And very cool picture here. This is, this is obviously later on. So that's my son, Jared on the left. Okay. That's my cousin and used to be partner, Brian. And then his dad, Bob, then my dad, Ed, myself, and then Brad. Well, guys, it's really been a treat, uh, hanging out with you. Thank you for your help. Uh, the segment on U.S. Farm Report folks will air, I think the third weekend in November. So make sure to catch that, uh, more great info on William Noby and company here, but guys, I know it's a busy time of year with Harvest, but thank you for taking the time to tell us about your company and, uh, yeah, keep rocking. Thank you. Really appreciate it to you. Thank you.