Installation a drip irrigation system
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7pjLTGqPf1E
Science & Technology
 Hello, my name is Leonor Rodriguez. I am a professor of Technical University of Madrid. And today I will be introducing a little bit of the elements for a drift irrigation system. What do you need to know when designing a drift irrigation system in an ecological orchard, organic orchard. The orchards that we own belongs to the Technical University of Madrid and the Faculty of Agricultural Engineering School. And we will see here the different elements that the systems need to be aware of their characteristics and how they function it. First things you need to think of is about where the water is, how the water will be conveying to the different small orchards. And if we are talking about drift irrigation systems, you need to know that the water will move along the circular pipe, as this one. And the whole section will be filling with water. That means that the pressure along the pipe will be higher than atmospheric pressure. Now we will move on to see where the water comes out in this particular orchard. Water comes to this point from the Central Water Company of Madrid. It's called Canal Isabel II. It's located in a special places. Afterwards there is various underneath the soil, the different pipe, and it comes out in this point. You will see here, this is a hydraulic valve. This one over here, this is open or closed valve. That goes forward to connect another five vats of different materials. This one is fibrocemento and the other one is polyethylene. The diameter of this material is 40 mm. It comes along to the whole length of the field showing the pressure. At this point, but in this case it is connected with a pressure regulator. What do we need a pressure regulator here? The pressure of this pipe could be as high as 17 m. Sometimes it is too high for a irrigation system. In that case, if we need a very high pressure, more than 20 or 30 m. In this column, we will need to use that pressure regulator device in the point where the distribution pipe ends. Afterwards, we will continue to the head or the tail of the different areas from the small grid irrigation system. This pipe will be the same diameter and material that this one you see over here. This is also buried. Let's move to see which are the typical elements for a grid irrigation system. First of all, let me remind you how much water you need to apply to the water irrigation system. How to calculate the water requirements for each plant in different orchards? It will depend on variables such as climate, precipitation, solar radiation, wind, soil, structure, texture, organic matter and the physiological behaviour of each crop. There are public programs to calculate these water requirements such as the cross water by file that everyone can link into those specific words, download the program and calculate the water requirements for each cross and each location. We know that information. What should we do next? Next is decide which type of irrigation system we need. For an organic orchard like that, we need a very efficient irrigation system. If we think of the various types of irrigation methods, when we think of the surface irrigation method, it is really too complicated nowadays. You can do it. We can do it. We can do it. In other words, we can do it. We can do it. I can do it. In other words, we can think of the beginning of irrigation method, but for that, the prototyhter coach is not worth it since we have many evaporation losses. We also need a very high pressure. So the best irrigation method should be the 3rd irrigation method. The tree irrigation method also has the advantage that it doesn't be affected by wind. So in the specific locations where the wind could be a problem, that's the method to go. And the efficiency is really very very high, the management of the system is well organized. So what are the typical elements for a tree irrigation system? They are the drippers. These are different types of drippers. That's the online emitter. And they have the advantage in case you will need several discharge. You can't do it with this small tube. We have an intra-line emitters. Means that the path is scattered both ends and inserted within the emitters. And the most typical models are the integrated models like that. All of them have in common a labyrinth structure as you can see here. You will see that it's a labyrinth with protrusions and different angles. What is this required for? As we think of the tree irrigation system is a localized system. That means water discharge drop by drop near the plant. And the pipe has a pressure over the atmospheric pressure. That means over one bar. We need an element to drop off all pressure. That means to keep it close to atmospheric pressure. What are these elements usually? The labyrinth. The water comes into these labyrinths, moves along. And then they discharge from the different outlets. Usually one or two outlets. And when it is discharged, this is atmospheric pressure. So that means that water comes like it. It's where a drop. You can also try a hole. If you have a pipe like this, by pressure, try to punch it. A small hole. You will see that there is a jet, a free jet coming out. Doesn't mean that even though you have the same diameter outlet from the emitters, the one in the pipe, you won't see the same effect. This is unlocalized because the labyrinth is not. And this is not localized. This is a typical fliburator. We will observe that you have a really tiny section. No more than two millimeters. Between one and two millimeters depth. So this is one of the disadvantages of this system. You have to be aware that water doesn't carry. There are also small minerals with these small organic matter that can plug those sections. That means that the emitters will be plugged in and the discharge will be lower than expected. In order to avoid that disadvantage, you have to add to the system a filter. The most typical system for the defibrillation system is the DICS filters. This is a very fine DICS, pressed together, water comes from the outer part and all the material that is conveying with the water stays in the greenest part of the DICS and the clean water comes to the inner part and moves to the irrigation units. Well, we know the elements and now a question to answer is what should be the optimum discharge for the meter? Well, you can have in the market from 1 liters per hour to 8 or 10 liters per hour. So this is a wide interval range. What should we say? When we are dealing with pressure, don't forget to leave a pressure guard like that at the beginning of the irrigation unit. That's the typical. This is leave it and you can go there and show each time what the pressure is. Otherwise, you can leave a pressure button over there and go with a digital manometer like this system you want. And go with this element that is connected to the digital manometer, punch it into the button outlet and measure the pressure. Finally, we need a volume meter like that. That's the water mat. Volume meter. It can be used for programming the irrigation. It's very simple. It's very simple. It's very simple to pay the bill of water that can allow everyone to consume the mass. For this irrigation system, we have chosen an integrated model, non-compensating 2.2 liters per hour. This is the design of the meter that goes inside the pipe. Now let's move to the orchard and see how the irrigation unit is. As you remember, this was the point with the pressure regulator and the pressure guards to know which is the pressure at this time and at every moment. Remember, this system has a pressure over 40 water column meter, even 60 water column meter because it comes to the general water networking from the city of Madrid. You wouldn't have this pressure that you may have to have this pressure. You may have in the field located in the summers of the big cities. You probably will have to install a little pan at the beginning of the whole system. In this case, we don't need it. We need the contrary. We need to drop off some energy because the pressure is really high. And then we just keep it there, let's say between one and two bars. We move with the same diameter, polyethylene pipe, 40 millimeters. And we need to think of the best design for this charge. And this orchard, first you have to make all the little settlements for the plants. That's the first thing you need to be decided. Once this is done, the irrigation system needs to cover all the water, the water requirements for that needs. What should be the best design for this specific case? We have tried and calculated different options. And the best we found in terms of energy savings is the one that takes the same pipe for water distribution All along to the middle area between this small plot, the left and right plot that goes along in the middle. To the middle part of the hill. And from here is a split with two teeth on two different containers. Each container will irrigate all different plots. So we have one container irrigating these four plots. And finally, we have a symmetry. Just think of a big solution taking into account symmetry as much as possible according to the topography of the field. And these last two, the lateral, we move the final point with this one here. And there is a coat, elbows that moves one to the left, one to the right. And from here, they will remove water from these four plots. And behind from the other four plots. So once we have the pipe, 40 mm pipe here, we need to change diameters usually. For the tertiary pipe, this is this one, 25 mm. And from the tertiary pipe, we have one tertiary pipe that goes very close to the blocks. And then we move to the end of the plot. And in the middle part, we rise a little bit with a different diameter polyethylene pipe. And then we move to the topography of the pipe, this is usually from 12 mm to 16 mm. And we have an open and close valve to open and close the water. So each container will give water for every four plots. But you have to be aware that water comes from the start point. That means that you have unlimited water. So in order to make a right programming to irrigate simultaneously one, two, three or four plots, or even more, you won't have to surpass the quantity of water delivered by the start point. You can irrigate simultaneously with as many units as water supplies. So we see here in the container two different elements that may be very useful for these types of irrigation. One is the electro valve for irrigation programming. This type of programming is by time. You see that the time of irrigation, this is the open valve over here. This valve open and the irrigation will go on to the different subgenits. And we have also in that case this element, this is the pressure reductor. We said that at the beginning it was a regulator pressure that was set up to 2.2 bars. And this one reduces the pressure at that point to 1.1. So that means that water scams along this tertiary pipe will have no more than 1.2 bars. The other element, beyond the electro valve and the pressure reductor, is the volumeter meter. So it will lock all the volume of water used in its irrigation. Afterwards, we move along. We have the open and closed valve we saw before. And this is our small irrigation tube. It is compound of the tertiary pipe and 4 laterals. In that case, the distribution of water is in the middle. We could have chosen other designers taking the distribution of water either on one side or on the other. What is with the advantage of distributing the water that way? It means that the pressure is more compensated in both ends. So we have the lateral. The lateral goes from one end to the downstream end. The emitter spaces are chosen according to the cross-physiological requirements. The cross-planting. In this case, it's 30 cm apart. For a typical retribution unit, at the end of its lateral, we have a plaque to stop the water running. But in this case, we have a non-branched design. That means that the end of the lateral are connected to another tertiary part. That means that water moving from the upper stream going to the downstream will move downwards and can go to reverse. So, we will obtain with this type of design that the pressure variability is not as high. So that would mean that we have a more water distribution uniformity and more efficiency. So, finally, we don't need to forget what is the pressure at each irrigation unit. So that means that we need a point where we should read the pressure. So, in that case, we are using the pressure button and will be located in a uniform pipe. That case. How can we do that? We should use the puncher. We should use the pressure to be prepared for the water. We should use the pressure. So, we can use the puncher in each store. We can use the puncher in each store or supermarket. And we open a hole. We insert it. And this is a measured meter. The volume meter is also a meter. So, don't forget for every meter. Located in a uniform pipe. Otherwise, the reading you will be taking will be out of range. You never know if this is to be lower or higher than this. I hope you can enjoy this re-explanation and probably you can try doing it yourself in your backyard. Thank you. Totally. Should we see you? You Jim. That's what is reasonable. Do you? Interesting. Well probably do. But you guys it's yourself. Coming a little bit road and turn around. Open some fingers, there it goes another big respect thing. That's the disappeared side of the carriage. The Longa Way. And you can see your people. That's what things are happening. Hudson. You can trust your people. Remember this hill. Really? There seems to be egg-o. They are extremely depressed and Father-esque.