Unknown Title
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7sUhacvXPbc
Unknown Category
 music Okay so about four years ago our path crossed and he's popularly known in the eastern region for cultivating crops like rubber, cocoa and plantain is an interesting get together again and today we are not just going to talk about the old things but something new that has happened which has to do with coconut nursery production and sit next to me to tell me more about this business and what got him into it is Kwame Nkibwe Siaku aka I don't want to mention that one Kwame nice meeting you again Oh my goodness it's been four years already so how has it been? It's been great, it's been great. I understand the difficulties we all have in this country I'm counting my blessings. Great, great. Let's refresh the memory of those who might have seen your story four years ago Your schooling days in UK and then you got back to Ghana and then refused to go When we want to go? Me I want to go Let's get to know briefly again who Kwame is for the purpose of those who have not seen the interviews we've done four years ago Kwame, I will simply say somebody who is so passionate about agriculture I think coming September will be my 12th year of being in agriculture, being in farming 12 years Right. So I think the journey started somewhere in 2012 when I decided to go into rubber So currently I have about 94 acres of rubber then I moved into Koko which I'm doing about 160 acres of Koko I like the challenge so I decided to take on something very different Right. And that is coconut. So I think among all these two, three, the tree crops that I'm planting Coconut is something that I really enjoy Oh really? Yeah, I think I really really enjoy doing coconut Okay. Not just because of how sweet coconut tastes In fact I think it's a lovely tree crop Okay. And I think people need to really understand more about coconut So I mean we are here to just, I mean, do it for more Awesome, awesome, awesome. Talking about its sweetness and a lovely crop Is that what made you got started or something else? I think it's more of diversification Okay. Where I was looking at diversifying Looking for something different to do As I said the first focus was to do rubber Then Koko. I've done a lot of things, you know I don't even want to talk about it like vegetables Almost a lot of things But I think I chanced on coconut I mean, where I realized was something that Ghanaians were really patronizing Yeah. So the interest, I mean, got to me So I decided to just diversify into Koko Not as well Okay. And how will you describe the experience so far? It's been great I know a lot of people want to go into agriculture Yeah And I would say Koko Not is somehow one of the easiest trickle Okay I mean, I say easiest, not to say that it's easy to do But then if you follow the right procedures and the right methods It's not that difficult Okay. And then a lot of Ghanaians are I can, I realize we don't have the time Uh-huh Most of the people who want to go into agriculture One way or the other Don't have the time to be in the farm throughout Exactly. Yes. 24-7 Exactly. I think coconut is one of the farms that you can have Where you can be a bit absent Okay. Because it doesn't really demand a lot Your presence You know, it doesn't demand a lot But then as I said, you need to get it right Okay. You can't just do it anyhow Right. You know, you can't just do it I understand With all the three cups Having it being cocoa, coconut, rubber, mango, cashew It all demands time Okay. Likewise coconut Okay. But then with my experience I think it's one of the things that most people can invest in Where they can feel very relaxed Okay. And you know, visit the farms as to when they make the time to go there Okay. Okay. So yeah A lot of people are interested in coconut farming Especially because of its profitability And also the endless benefits that you get from coconut However, most people also get it wrong Especially when they are going to buy the seedling for planting And so I want us to touch on How can a novist Or even someone is already into farming But I want to diversify like you have done How am I able to identify a hybrid and non-hybrid coconut seedling? Very good question. I would want to go back a little bit Okay. To share how I even got into coconut nursery Go ahead So I think 2017 That was when I wanted to embark on having a coconut farm Fortunately, I like to do farms on a large scale Okay. I don't really believe in 2, 3, 4, 5 acres Not to say Okay. If you want to have an acre of coconut farm it's back But then I was looking at doing coconut up to about 200 acres Okay. So the seedling selection as to what exactly I'm planting Was something I was very, very interested in Not to say there weren't nursery operators around I saw a lot of them Yeah. But then when the right questions, I call it right questions Because I did my research I ask They are not able to really give me the answers to the questions that I'm asking them So I think it was a bit difficult for me when it comes to getting my seedlings for my coconut farm You know, like the rubber was easy Yeah. Because right where I have my rubber farms There's a company, RPG, rubber plantation in Ghana Okay. So they have the seedlings They have the seedlings At the cocoa farm, you know, we have a subsidiary for Cocoa Bot Yeah. That's the SPD, the production department Who goes to the producing the seedlings for us But with the coconut, I realized there was nothing like that You know, so that's when I met one agonomist, Dr. Asare Who I met, you know, through research Okay. Who explained things to me Who gave me some numbers Then I embarked on it Yeah. But prior to that, I saw when I had to purchase some few siblings from some few natural projects Okay. But subsequently, I started nursing my own seedlings in my farm Just to transplant them Yeah. Into my field Into the field, exactly So I think I had a lot of interest I mean, when people came to the farm, they saw my seedlings And are you selling them? Are you selling them? And I started giving them exactly what got me to start this nursery So with a lot of experience, with a question, going back to the question you asked me How do you identify between a hybrid? Yeah, the hybrid Because I get it a lot When you go to a typical nursery or a nursery operator who is selling coconut I mean, the first question people ask is I want hybrid I want hybrid I want the one that germinates within That producing food within three years Yes Within five years And it's a very difficult, it's a very good question But how do you? It's kind of impossible Impossible to identify a hybrid in the field A hybrid seedling by just picking the nuts It's impossible It's impossible Because you have to be in the farm You have to see the tree To where the nut is coming from You can easily identify a hybrid tree So out of the hybrid tree, you get the hybrid nuts And I was a bit shocked Because I mean, we go out there to the nursery operators Asking them, is it hybrid? They will tell you, yes, it's hybrid Sometimes it's true I'm not saying And I'm not trying to say that you're lying But how are you sure these are hybrid signals? So that's when I was a bit excited Because I was picking my nuts from a hybrid farm I was producing my own nursery for my own farm So I have all the benefits that a hybrid farm can have in my farm So you can't identify unless you're in the farm Sometimes you can try to use the overallness of the nuts But it still doesn't make any sense to me You have to be in the farm to really know whether this nursery is hybrid or not You have to be in the farm to really identify If not, I don't see any way you can identify between a hybrid and a non-hybrid farm There's no way It's practically impossible So you have to be in the farm See the tree And that's why So let me go back to it Usually when you read more about coconut They will tell you that it's better And it's ideal to nest seedlings out of a farm that is about 20 years plus It's not because of anything One, you know when you have a hybrid farm that's about 20 years You can clearly see its features You can see the nuts, you can see the tree itself Right You can really identify that it's hybrid or not Okay Because if you start using coconut that is about 5, 6, 7 years when you start footing To cultivate as a cultivar To cultivate, produce nursery It's kind of difficult to identify it So usually it's better that you have a farm that's about 25, 30 years Most of my farms, you know, and just to add it up I hardly produce, I hardly produce my nursery in Ghana Okay Yeah, all from Ivory Coast Okay You know, and most of my farms are usually 60 years, 40 years, 35 years Okay And you can see a 35 year old farm that has that height Okay And you can easily identify it And they'll tell you this same farm is 35 years but it's not hybrid You can see how tall the whole farm is Okay And let me just buttress with and end it with that question That why do people even want hybrid signals? Why? Why hybrid? Does it mean that other nurseries are not good? Yeah They are good, they are equally good But you know the term hybrid I mean hybrid in the sense that anything hybrid is kind of, is taking through a process Mm-hmm Where one is a bit resistant to diseases Yeah One is a bit robust Mm-hmm Is susceptible to diseases and all of that And the most important thing about hybrid is hybrid coconut Mm-hmm Is the maturity Okay As to when, when you plant it And how long it will take to get the fruit Mm-hmm So I think that answers the question You need to be in the hybrid farm Okay So know Right That this farm is hybrid Okay Before you can pick a nut If not, it's impossible Okay What's the capacity of this production center? Yeah Currently here we have, we had about 40,000 Okay But we've been moving them out So now we have about 20, 20 something thousand over here Okay So what we have here, are they all hybrid or non-hybrid? Yeah All hybrid All hybrid siblings Okay All pure, proper hybrid siblings All right And I, I think I, I want to backers with this Mm-hmm Where I even prefer Mm-hmm People to come to my farm Mm-hmm You know I have a 178-acre coconut farm Oh Yeah sure So usually when people come over here, over here Mm-hmm I tell them, you don't have to even listen to all that I have to say to you Mm-hmm But if you have the opportunity Yeah Listen to my farm Exactly See what I've done Then you can at least speak to it Okay It's all hybrid, pure hybrid Okay Okay Now when you drive around Ghana You see bits and pieces of coconut here And there's some toss, some shawls and all that But where do coconut grow best in Ghana? And what soil and what are some of the regions you can mention? A very important question And you see, um, farming is supposed to be taken very serious Mm-hmm And sometimes it baffles me Mm-hmm When people get up one day Mm-hmm Probably make some money And, you know, they just want to plant something Not to say I mean, in Ghana you can plant coconut everywhere Yeah But there are ideal locations Mm-hmm There are places where it's better Mm-hmm Let me talk about the soil Okay So with spoil soil, you're looking at a well-drained Mm-hmm Let me just say well-drained sandy soil Okay And to say sandy soil, I know when we went to JSS We thought about the properties of a sandy soil Exactly Where it's loose, right? It's not sticky Mm-hmm You know, it's not sticky, it's loose Mm-hmm You know, it's not sticky, it's loose Exactly Exactly Exactly Exactly Exactly It's loose It has a very low, I mean, low water retaining capacity Mm-hmm What it means is it can drain water pretty fast Okay Um Coconut does well in a well-drained sandy soil Okay And not to say that the other lands can't thrive well with coconut It can Okay But then, just say you want to do coconut on a very large scale Commercial scale Thousand acres Five hundred acres These things are necessary Mm-hmm You can't just get up and say you have a thousand acre land So you want to start planting coconut So you just start Mm-hmm No So I believe that we need to do the right thing when it comes to agri- Okay Because it's expensive Right And we get frustrated when it doesn't work Of course Of course But then because of the things we take for granted Mm-hmm We have to be very careful when it comes to choosing a site for coconut As I said Mm-hmm It's practically possible for coconut to thrive in any part of our country Exactly But then you're looking at production Mm-hmm You know, you're looking at production Okay That's why it specifically stated that well-drained sandy soil Mm-hmm You know, okay It's best and ideal Okay And to buttress The regions You know It has to be a place where rainfall pattern is massive Mm-hmm Like, you know, a very good way for aliens So talking about the central, the central regions and all that It's ideal And that is where we get most of that coconut from Okay, okay Yeah As well They are all close to the coastal side Yeah So realistically, you can conclude by saying Yeah, all the sand, soil within those areas are almost sandy Good, okay You know Not to say coconut doesn't do well Let's say it's because You know, the sea kind of land around Ashantawito Yeah It's better to do it over there as well Okay But on a large commercial farm, you need to really take in consideration what kind of land Okay And just to add up, it's not necessarily, you have to be your text You see, Ghanians, I realized, because I meet a lot of founders, let me just tell you what happened About two weeks ago Where a farmer, I call him a farmer Though he doesn't live in Ghana, he lives in Canada And he got my contact, he called me And he's been calling me to go visit his farm Okay He has about 60 acres of coconut farm somewhere in Odaa And I couldn't make it because I was very busy Yeah So he was coming to Ghana somewhere in May And he called me, that when he comes, if I can get an opportunity to visit his farm That's it So, yeah, I know that He came around and took a lot of water, so we visited his farm Yeah And to my surprise, the things I saw over there was a bit, like, this is very serious, you know And the farm is about six, seven years, and it's very poor So, from, I think, he got it wrong from, from even the seedlings They got it wrong from the planting distance They got it wrong with the soil They got it wrong with everything Oh my So, you see all the investment That's a lot of money That he has put into this farm with the time And he is okay He doesn't really need much He's just excited to be a farmer But, you know, it's so depressing to go through something like this So, I think the right questions needs to be asked You know, the right soil needs to be, you know, used when you're getting into coconut farming You just don't get up and say, coconut does well People can even plant coconut in water You know, in water, mushy areas Right No, you don't do that It's not done You know, coconut is just like any other tree crop Right It needs a well, like a well, you know, very good soil Yeah To grow very well Yeah, yeah So, I think that's the backrest with it Okay Yeah, a place where, where the soil is more sandy A very good way for a pattern Coconut needs a lot of water You know, not to say the water should be retained around the coconut But, the soil should be able to drain a lot of water It shouldn't hold the water Okay Exactly So, I'm sure you're seeing a lot of interviews about coconut on our channel But, this has become very important for us to reiterate and, you know, educate you before Because, most of you are wasting money or losing very, very good amount of money Because, you lack knowledge Because, you don't have the right people to buy from I'm going for a quick breather When I come back, Kwame will tell me more about If I have just one acre And I want to go into coconut production or farming How many seedlings will I be needing to actually do my one acre farm? I'll be right back Stay tuned Thanks for staying If you're just tuning in and watching The Ghanian Farmer We encourage you to share your views globally If you're watching us, you have any questions, you have any contributions Share with us But, this is about how you can identify the quality, the right type of coconut seedling to buy for your farm Don't go waste your money And come back crying But, before we went on break, I was asking If I have just one acre It's a test case And I want to go and plant How many nuts are we looking at? Okay So, an acre of coconut With a spacing of 7.5 meters And that is actually an ideal spacing 7.5 meters And that's about 25 feet Okay We'll be able to accommodate about 70 to 75 trees Okay 70 to 75 trees Right Most people come and they'll tell you I have an acre Yes And I want to put about 120 And you advise them No It's too much It doesn't work that way Okay What you put on the ground is what you get So, that is the preferred and required You know, um, um, um, um, um, the distance and the quantity that is used So, at a distance of, um, 7.5 meters apart Um, um, that's about 25 feet Okay We have close about 70 to 75 trees Okay On an acre of land Okay Is there a special way of planting coconut in the soil? Is there any special way? Yes, um, there isn't any special way Mm-hmm You know, I think when it comes to general farming Mm-hmm A lot of people probably will show you how to do this, how to do that Mm-hmm But you would have to try and find something that works for you Okay You see, we don't have irrigations in Ghana Mm-hmm We don't even irrigate our farms Mm-hmm Right? So finding a means to plant coconut Mm-hmm That will sustain it Mm-hmm That will help it thrive better Mm-hmm Sometimes you would have to try and coin your own way Oh, okay You understand? Okay So what I do specifically, usually I mean, I consult for a lot of farms Yes And I help them in planting their coconut Mm-hmm You know, coconut, we even call coconut as a thirsty tree Okay Because it needs water Yes Not to say that there's supposed to be so much water Mm-hmm Around it Yeah But it needs water at least every two weeks after planting Okay It needs to be water Okay So there is any special way of planting coconut Mm-hmm Sometimes when it comes to general farming Yeah And that as I said, I've been a farmer for the past 12 years Exactly I mean, September of my 12th year Mm-hmm And sometimes my friends don't even believe that You would have to find your own way Right Do things you think is working for you Mm-hmm You don't just go out there and watch a video on YouTube Yeah With someone doing something Yeah And you want to replicate that same thing The same thing You know, the lands are different Mm-hmm So try and find ways and needs to To do things you think is benefiting you Okay So one of the things I do Mm-hmm When I'm planting coconut Is how I dig my hole Okay You know, I dig the hole such that it's so big Mm-hmm Where I have a lot of space around it Mm-hmm Put the coconut in the middle Yeah Cover the soil Yeah Cover the coconut with the soil Mm-hmm But then there's still a lot of There's a lot of space around it Okay What does that do? Yeah See, we don't irrigate our farms Yes And see, the rainfall patterns are pretty poor Yeah Sometimes Mm-hmm So you need coconut As I said, coconut Is usually called the thirsty tree Mm-hmm It needs water to dry very well Mm-hmm So leaving that space around the coconut tree When it rains, sort of like you have some water collected around it So it means if it's not going to rain for even a month or even two weeks You have that space around the coconut being very moist Mm-hmm Which will aid in proper growing of your coconut tree Okay Okay So there isn't any kind of like special way of planting coconut But you do things that will help you Yeah Things that will make your farm do well Yeah So you need to find ways Okay As I said, farming is not something you can learn and say you are done learning Mm-hmm Every day You keep learning You keep learning Every day Okay So there isn't any special way As in somebody trying to tell you It can work Mm-hmm If somebody is trying to demonstrate something to you You mean the person I have tried it But it doesn't mean when you try it, it's going to work for you Okay So that is my way Okay Try and dig the hole That big Put The coconut in the middle Leave a bit of space around it Mm-hmm Where there will be some water collected when it rains At least if it's not raining Yeah They will still use that water Exactly Okay, that's interesting I've seen that before but I can't wait for him to demonstrate for us to see That's a tip for you So when it comes to the nursery If I buy the nuts How long does it take for me to start seeing the leaves shooting? Great Mm-hmm So we start coconut by picking the dry nuts Okay Usually it's advisable that the nuts drops themselves Oh, okay You know It's usually not advisable to climb the tree to pluck dry nuts Mm-hmm In terms you It has to be well dry Okay Before it can germinate Okay If it's not well dry, it will never germinate Okay So usually when we go to some of the farms that we start our nurseries from Usually we don't have enough nuts So we are forced to climb the trees And pluck To pluck some of the dry nuts And to our surprise There are times the nuts start germinating even on top of the tree Oh really? You can see it protrudes just a little bit Okay Whilst it's still hanging on the tree Yeah And that's one of the difference between the hybrid and the non-hybrid seedlings I think the hybrid seedlings have a very soft shell Sort of where germinations are pretty easy So if you happen to have a nut that is already germinated It means easy to go Okay It means within some few months Yeah It goes really fast Okay But the germination is the problem There are times you can go under a typical tree Mm-hmm You have about Let's say 100 nuts Dry nuts dropped Yeah Yeah Out of these 100 nuts You can have let's say 30 germinating Okay And it's just natural It's not something out of anything Yeah You know So You have to notch it Usually we call what we call notching Okay Notching is where we cut just a bit Okay Let's pick one that you've cut Exactly So something like this Okay So we notch this coconut Mm-hmm You know coconut has this shell Yeah Where when there's water poured on it It will just drop off Mm-hmm It won't get into the coconut You're trying to force water into the coconut Okay To aid germination Okay So the whole idea of notching Yeah Where we cut a bit of this piece Is to get water into the coconut Mm-hmm Where it can aid fast germination Okay Right Okay So when germination starts Yeah It takes close to about 6 months Okay For transplanting It gets to the height Mm-hmm Where you can transplant the coconut Okay So from let's say from the time you pick the nuts Yes To transplanting it's about 6 months Okay Yeah So what it takes 6 months here before a farmer comes to buy Exactly Oh my I see Exactly Okay When I'm coming to buy the nuts to go and transplant What time of the day do you recommend I come by to buy my nuts? Yeah This is the general question where I'll answer for all tree crops Okay And these are the mistakes we do as farmers as well Yes Yes Tree crops, you know, mostly predominantly in Ghana we don't irrigate them Okay What it means is we plant them early Okay Part of the year when the rain is setting Yeah There isn't any particular day as in planting in the morning or in the afternoon But it should be planted early Okay Early, I mean the month We know somewhere in April, May, we start getting rains in Ghana Okay It's ideal to plant any tree crop Okay Beanet rubber Beanet cocoa Beanet cashew Coconut Very early What you're trying to do is to help this tree crop to establish very well So it means when you plant them early, let's say you plant it by May, you are done planting your seedlings It means it gets all the rains that's, you know, we call them Ghana, we have the major rainy season and the minor Exactly So the major rainy season is usually between April, May, June, July Then we have a bit of a drought Then I guess September, October, November, we have the minor rainy season So if you plant early, it means you have all this rain from, you know, May, June, July, all the way through to about December Yeah So you have a well-established tree crop Whether it being coconut or cocoa or something like that I get a lot of people who come around somewhere, you know, in September And they want to buy seedlings to go plant Because we start nursing seedlings somewhere September, October That's how we start doing our preparation Okay And I tell them it's not ideal Because you're not sure Because we are entering the minor, we are in the minor season And there's going to be drought Yeah So as to a specific time of planting, no But it needs to be planted early At least your land preparation should start early You know, by January, February, March, it should be done You will do your land preparation By May, you have to finish planting your seedlings Okay And that will help you have a very good seedling growing for you But what if I have irrigation? That is also okay Okay But you know, there is something different There's a big difference between natural rainfall and irrigation Yes You can't 100% rely on irrigation Okay Especially with tree crops You know, it doesn't really need a lot of water If you can add irrigation to your tree crops like coconut There you go, it's excellent, it's ideal Right You can, you can, you can It does really well Okay You know, but then because you don't want to spend so much money Yeah Sometimes, not so it's not necessary It's very necessary If you have the finances to have an irrigated coconut farm It's a plus for you Oh right But then if you plant it early And it's well established by November, December Why, you don't even need any irrigation In that case, how long then after my transplanting Will I be waiting to start plucking and selling or enjoying my coconut? Yeah I get this question A lot of questions When people come over here How long am I going to get coconut seedling? Yes You know, I heard There is one that even Someone even said there is one that is even two years To start getting coconut seedling See, um And this is not to say anything Coconut As I said earlier Thrives really well in sandy Well drained sandy soil Yeah And With a hybrid seedling You are looking at Between three to five years Three to five years In my farms In some of my farms I demonstrated When I planted the seedling Yeah When I transplanted I took note of it When we did the transplant Um In one of my farms About five acre farm Like a plot Where I demarcated And made the planting We realized that We had About 60% Of the seedlings Giving us flowers After the third year Oh About 60% Okay You see When somebody comes over here Probably they want to buy Like one seedling Or two Or three And Buying three seedlings And planting them And expecting maybe For it to give you fruit In let's say three years In four years It's usually not realistic I say it's not realistic Because If you are doing a whole A whole plantation Like a big farm You know The soil Nutrients It's completely different From each part of the soil Exactly You can have a big land Yes But the nutrients At one particular spot Is completely different You know So it's usually proper And ideal To have Some quantity of seedlings Where you can Now be very sure That Are these really good quality seedlings You can use one seedling Or two seedlings That you planted in your house As a yardstick To say It's not a good quality seedling Yeah Maybe the soil You even planted the seedling On it It's not good It's not good quality Right And you ask How long I said three to five years Okay I know with a hybrid seedling After the third year You see signs of flowers Okay You see signs of flowers After the third year But let me add this It doesn't matter If you buy a hybrid seedling And you don't go through The proper Things you need to do For the coconut to thrive well Okay Everything needs to be met You know Proper planting Everything has to be equal Alright So if everything is done well I mean Farming Somebody say farming is too risky Of course it is Everything is risky It is Everything is risky Everywhere If you can do it right Yes If you can do it very well We guarantee that At least And if you know you are buying A right proper seedling It's very important Yeah And that's one of the things We neglect Not just with coconut Everything we do Yeah Having it being vegetables Or anything You know You have people It all starts from the seed Exactly Right You need the right seed To get the right You know Whatever you see The outcome is to get something better out of it So why compromise on the initial Initial I mean Nearsity You don't compromise Okay Everything you are doing Whether it is 2 years Or 3 or 5 years Is all compromise Great You struggle Okay Since you have a coconut farm You should be in the best place to tell me How many fruits am I likely to get on one plant And of course What would be the life span of a coconut tree? So Ideally It varies from region to region Okay As I said When I go to Ivory Coast Where we start our nursery Yeah And I see the kind of farms they have With the kind of maintenance they are giving the farms And you see the typical coconut tree With a lot of nuts on it I can say you can have that same thing probably when you plant it That's why I said it varies from region to region Exactly Because on the average When the coconut is Start fruiting After let's say the fifth year I mean It's so tender and so young To carry a lot of trees I mean a lot of nuts at the time Yeah You know it's so tender It's so young So it can hold a lot of I mean coconut You know coconut is very heavy Exactly So when they are very young You don't expect much Okay When the full maturity We are looking at between Let's say 5 to 15 years When the coconut is well established You are confident that you should You shouldn't have anything less than a hundred nuts in a year Okay In a year Between 70 to 100 On one? On one tree Okay 70 to 100 And it can go all the way to 150 I went to a farm And I counted Not less than 120 nuts on each Of the tree That's great That's great Okay I counted not less than 120 Okay On each tree Okay But as I said You can't say Because you have 120 When you come by the seedlings And you go plant it You also expect you to have 120 Of course Your care Your maintenance Your farm practices The soil Is a big determinant Yeah So it's not always about what you do Sometimes you do everything right But you still not get that You know expected You know what you're looking for Okay You want to get 130 Okay Right But then I know that at least A poor farm That is probably taken care of I mean a poor soil That is probably taken care of The right fertilizer And all that I mean I think you should probably get something above 70 to 100 Okay Per tree for a year Okay A year And the lifespan will be How long can a coconut tree Coconut usually We call it the three generation Three generation means When you plant it Your kids will come meet it And your kids kids will come meet it Usually they say about 60-70 years Okay But then it can go More than 100 years But you know in farming There's something called viability Yeah It's not economically viable After some years Because probably you'll be giving it too much care Too much attention Where the fruit that is giving you Yeah Can't complement how much you're making out of it So it becomes not economically viable Okay At some point Okay I mean I'm sure maybe after 70-80 years It's proper To probably start the farm all over again Yeah Okay Do coconut need fertilizer? And are there any specific fertilizer that coconut need? Yes, coconut needs fertilizers Just like any other tree crop Mm-hmm People say Yeah And I think one of the easiest fertilizers you can find around Which is usually available is the chicken manure Mm-hmm It responds so well to chicken manure Okay Yeah Okay I don't think it's a heavy feeder of fertilizer I don't think so Alright It's a very robust plant That's why I like it It's robust And it's not too difficult to do Okay So with just a little fertilizer As I said You can do some of the inorganic fertilizers Okay Mm-hmm Are all good for coconut But I prefer people doing more of the organic Where they can embed a lot of the chicken manure around the coconut Mm-hmm You know it keeps that space around the coconut very moist Okay Because it likes that Yeah So in as much as you can give it fertilizer like the NP case Mm-hmm Like the 1515 Mm-hmm It's also okay to give the organic manure Like inorganic manure Okay Inorganic fertilizers Yeah And to add it to buttress it Do you know we give coconut salt? Salt Drain Is it the big ones or the Addan Addan salt Okay So You wonder why coconut thrives so well at the shore Yeah exactly Keter Addan Exactly You have coconut and they are there for years Yeah Yeah So coconut does well Having given it salt Mm-hmm Because you probably will bring coconut to your farm Mm-hmm There's no salt content in the soil Mm-hmm So I read extensively Mm-hmm And I started doing it in my farm And I saw the response A lot of people complain so much about my farm It's not doing well There are too many diseases here and there And I think salt is a cure I see It all depends on how you apply it You apply it We would go to his farm for him to show us that Exactly Exactly And this is something that Yeah, I consult a lot Right Sometimes for free I love to do it Mm-hmm And people have so many issues on their coconut farms And I get there and it's something very simple Simple, okay Something very simple to do Okay, okay And because usually they are not there And they leave the farm for farm managers to take care of it Mm-hmm They're not able to identify this Okay Salt plays a very good role in coconut Okay By applying it around the roots You can even put a little bit of You grind it and put a little bit into the leaves Mm-hmm It does really well Okay You mentioned disease Are there any disease that affect coconut? How do I prevent or cure it? Great So, um, um, coconut I realize usually Predominantly it's, um, the root rot Mm-hmm Usually caused by fungus Okay Um, coconut is sweet Mm-hmm So you have every, every insect Like, you know, even rodents Yeah Attacking coconut Okay It's a sweet, I mean, crop Mm-hmm So you need to really take care of it very well Mm-hmm One of the diseases that I find easy attacking coconut is the root rot Mm-hmm Where usually when you're planting the seedling, um, you have a bit of termites and some, you know, in the soil So they end up chewing the, the root, which will prevent the coconut from growing Mm-hmm And it ends up killing the coconut Mm-hmm So the root rot, which there is a way to, to, to solve that issue with the root rot Yeah Mm-hmm And I see more of people complaining, more of the weevils Mm-hmm You know, getting into the, like in the middle part of the coconut chewing the middle part That is supposed to germinate, that's supposed to grow very well Yeah, yeah Mm-hmm I mean, there are easy ways to kill these things But then just to add it up, I went to somebody's farm who was complaining about this issue Of having weevils and, you know, chewing the coconut But I go to the farm and the farm was all bushy Mm-hmm A lot of weeds Okay So you can't curtail these weevils, whilst you have a lot of weeds in your farm Exactly Where do you expect the weevils to go when you treat them? The moment you treat them, they will just jump into the Yeah, the next one The bush The bush Okay Where they will hide Yes So your coconut farm should be free Okay And it's a basic principle Right The moment you can keep it with free, whether and many weeds, you won't have a lot of insects Hiding into the bush Which will end up going into your coconut, just call it Okay So sometimes it's not really about focusing so much on the coconut But it's about focusing so much on the kind of things you need to do in the farm The maintenance Okay The weeding Right It's not really about the coconut Because as I said The agronomy practices Exactly Are very key Okay So once I have to wait for three years plus to start harvesting my first fruit Is there any form of, or any type of crop I can intercrop with my coconut? And at what stage of the coconut, am I allowed to do my intercropping? Very, very good question Very, very good question Um I understand Ghanians usually don't have a lot of farm plants Yeah So they like to intercro, that's cropping we call it Mmm Um Yes, coconut you can do some intercropping Yeah But it has to be some specific crops Okay And I would generalize by saying vegetables Mmm Things like tubers, like cassava, yam No Okay I don't subscribe to those things Okay Because they are so heavy Yeah Yeah I mean sorry On nutrients So I usually don't subscribe people intercropping tubers Or creeping plants, like you know, within coconut But anything like vegetables, vegetables like tomatoes, garden eggs, okro These can be planted within coconut Okay And it can be done right after you even plant the coconut You know But as I said Not to say that cassava will have anything bad on coconut Yeah, I've seen somebody's farm like that He's planted cassava throughout his farm Okay He has a big farm And it was full of cassava And I told him Boss, it's not done Mmm And they said nothing has happened to my farm Okay And I said nothing will happen to your farm Yeah I'm not saying that cassava will kill your coconut It won't kill it Mmm But the cassava will deplete the soil so much Exactly No matter the fertilizer you introduce You introduce to the coconut It won't do well Okay You know there are some key nutrients in the soil That is not replenished You can't replenish them It takes time That's why we have what we call the farrow period In agriculture Yeah, exactly And leave the soil Yeah To just stay there Yeah And it just regains it's nutrients For some time You can never introduce any fertilizer to get that nutrients That is lacking in the soil Yeah That's why I say it's not advisable to plant crops like cassava, yam and other things in the coconut Let me just backtrice by saying coconut needs sunlight Okay Sunlight, plain sunlight You go to people's farms and you see coconut under trees Yeah Under shades Coconut needs at least six hours of sunlight Okay Okay So it's not something that you can just plant anywhere Okay You have to go through the processes Okay And if you do it well, you enjoy it Are there any challenges associated with coconut production? Just as I mentioned earlier with the diseases that can be eliminated somehow It can be controlled and it needs to be controlled early Apart from that, I would say the drought Usually, as I said, you have to plant early Yeah So if you plant early, your chances of having a successful farm is higher But then if you have to wait and start planting somewhere in September, October You know, not to say it's bad at September But you're not sure Exactly, of the rain patterns You're not sure If you have irrigation like you asked earlier, that is okay Okay You can plant it and you know you can irrigate your seedlings when you transplant them So these are the challenges that people face It's expensive, it's not cheap It's not cheap So I Not even the nursery Farm is expensive And I expect people to do it right Okay Get it right from the start And you enjoy it Okay It doesn't matter if there are frustrations in it You don't want to be frustrated so much So try Take your time If you're not ready, don't even start I tell people Okay If you're not ready, don't start Alright It's okay to say I want to start something small But then have in your mind that Even that small thing is challenging That small thing that you want to start a challenge So be ready Be emotionally prepared Before you get into anything Okay Not just coconut oil Okay I know you are into the farming and the nursery production Exactly But give and take If you are asked to make a choice Will you stick to the nursery production And forfeit the farming Or you do the farming forfeit You also chose one You took one Not a football Why So I I I wasn't really looking forward to having a coconut nursery Okay It was never part of my plan Right I never even emphasized or thought about it Okay Um So I remember somewhere in 2020 When I started my nursery in my farm Call me my time Choose one When I started my nursery in my farm I had this agri-director Okay And he saw my nursery And he loved them Okay And he told me Call me just do a lot of these And sell You know And I was a bit hesitant But then I started doing it And it gave me the opportunity to You know what Advise people Tell people what to do The farming practices and all that I am sure If it was just my farm I would not have that opportunity So it makes it very difficult And you need to have the farm Okay And have the nursery to complement Because if somebody comes over here Usually I like them to visit the farm Alright So they can See Before they come Alright, okay How much is one? Call me You don't have to say this on me Okay Okay Okay So Let us know your Location And how we can find you So we have We have three nursery sites We have three nursery sites One in Bodjiase Bodjiase Not too far from Insawem We have one on the Asaman Kese stretch That is Asaman Kese And we have one in Koforudia Okay So We have nursery sites In all these locations Okay And We supply nationwide Okay Right We supply nationwide People within our enclave Let us say within Eastern region Usually we do what we call Free distribution Free supply When you purchase from us Some quantity And We also don't only sell We give consultancies Okay We advise people on what to do And Yeah As I said Okay If you buy some quantity You do free delivery We do free delivery Your number please So that we will be able to reach out to you So 0537 24 25 74 0537 24 25 74 Yeah And we are here for you Okay So that's it Kwame Nchi Buisi Thanks for mentioning the number And how we can reach out to you But finally Any Tips Or advice To give to those who are already in it Those who are yet to start So they can get it right Because You have said it already It's expensive Being a small or big farm It is expensive Yeah Simply put I would say Get it right from the start By getting it right It means The right seedling Ask the right questions When you are going to buy the seedlings You know Everything Not just farming Starts with the How you start it But farming specifically Is with respect to the seedling that you are planting Being a plantain Being a cocoa Being a coconut So you need to get it To get it To get it To get it To get it To get it The right Coconut So you need to get the seedling right The nursery has to be right And when we say Get it right I mean You don't really have a lot of control You probably won't have the opportunity to Raise your own nursery Like I did for myself That is really successful for me But then Wherever it is You are purchasing your seedlings from Try and ask the right questions Because If it is wrong If you get it wrong Then you will do Then it's going to be very difficult for you Ok So ask the right questions and I think you can be very successful at getting into coconut farming. Okay. And I entreat people to get into it. As I said earlier that coconut happens to be one of the farms. To me, I know people will dispute that. That you can do and relax. But that is if you can do it well. Properly planned farm. Where you don't necessarily have to be in the farm always. Okay. Unlike some of the other tree crops. Okay. I am a cocoa farmer and I know what goes into cocoa. It is tedious. It is very difficult. Right. Rubber farm before I started tapping rubber is so tedious. But coconut unfortunately is not that difficult. And I say it is not difficult because of the processes that are put in place. Studying well. Planting well. Pegging well. Even the lining and pegging have to be done well. And if all these are met. You are in for a very beautiful journey in coconut. Okay. You know. And coconut is good. I entreat people to go into it. Yeah. Okay. So let's use just one acre for an example. How much am I likely to make out of one acre coconut farm? Whoa. Whoa. Whoa. So coconut. I would say it is lucrative. Okay. Because it is a demanding commodity. Hmm. You know. People drink coconut everywhere in Ghana. Yeah. And it is one of the things that I can bet you that when you plant it you certainly get the market for it. Hmm. So. Hmm. So. Like I said earlier. An acre of coconut you are looking at around 75 trees. 75 trees. Hmm. And I said earlier that a tree can give you maximum. Hmm. It can give you up to about 150. Yeah. So if it is unrealistic we can limit ourselves that okay you are going to be a very good farmer. Yeah. You go through all the right farming practices. Hmm. So you are targeting to have at least 100 nuts per tree for your coconut. Hmm. Let's just use that averages. Hmm. But as I said it is not 100. It can be even less. Hmm. It depends on how you take care of your farm. Yeah. But let's say you are a good farmer. Hmm. You are going to go through the right processes and the right practices to probably get at least 100 per tree. So simply you can multiply 100 nuts by. 75 trees. Hmm. When you do that how much do you get? 100. Please wait. You know me I like money. 100 multiplied by. 75 trees. Hey. How much is that? How many things are that? So it means you are going to get what? 7500 nuts. Yes. A year. Yes. I don't know how much. In Accra there are times I buy coconut for 60 days. Ah it's 60. There are times I buy 50 days. No it's 60 right now. They have read budgets. Exactly. So it's 60. So let's say you are not even going to sell it yourself in Accra. Yes. I'm just looking for let's say half of the money. Yes. Okay. So you are probably going to sell it for even half of that price for 3 cities. Hmm. So multiply 7500 by 3. By 3. Hey. It means you have what? 22,500. 500. Per acre of coconut. And this is you doing an acre. Just one acre. 75 trees. So if you want to do let's say 50 acres. Yes. You multiply 22,500 by 50. How much do you get? Hey. 1 billion. It means you make 1 million. 1 million. 1 million. 1 million. 1 million. 1 million. 1 million. There are God people who say 1 million. Exactly. It means you can make a million cities out of coconut. A 50 acre coconut farm. But there are conditions to it. Of course. There are God people who say one million. Exactly. It means you can make a million cities out of coconut, 50-acre coconut farm. But there are conditions to it. Of course. It's not that you just have 50 acres and you make one million cities. You can make a million cities out of a 50-acre coconut farm. But it all depends on what you do to the coconut farm. Your management. The management is key. It plays a key role in your success. Okay. Yeah. All right. So you know what we are going to do? I'm going to organize a webinar. For Kwame and myself. So we can depth detail. Because there are still questions I wanted to ask him. But you know. This goes live on TV here in Ghana. And then you watch the rest on YouTube. So let's consume this information. Okay. And then we would organize a webinar. For Kwame. He has rubber. He has coconut. Cocoa. And many other things. Let's do a webinar. So he enlightens us. All the questions you have. You would meet him one on one. And then we'll conclude with him. My name is Zanyunam. This has been the Ghanaian farmer. His number was mentioned in the interview. Take your time. Pick the number. Call him. And he'll be there to help you. Thank you very much for watching. Thank you very much for having us. Thank you. Thank you. Bye. Thank you. Thank you. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Viola. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye.