Life Cycle of a Plant for Kids! | Learn Parts of a Plant 🌱 | Twinkl USA
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7viA16-J2K0
Education
 Let's learn all about the life cycle of a plant for kids. Did you know that there are four life stages in a plant's life? First, the seed. Second, the sprouting seed. Third, the seedling. And finally, the flower. Let's talk about that first life stage. What is it? Do you remember? That's right. It's the seed. Let's talk about that. From a seed to a plant. The first step in the life cycle of a plant is the seed needs to be planted in the soil. The seed can be planted in a pot inside or in the ground outside. A plant needs three things to grow. Water, sunlight, and soil. Have you ever planted a seed before? Now let's look at the second life stage of a plant. Do you remember what it is? That's right. It's a sprouting seed. From a seed to a plant. Once the seed is planted, it's a seed. That's right. It's a sprouting seed. That's right. It's a sprouting seed. It's a sprouting seed. It's a sprouting seed. It's a sprouting seed. It's a sprouting seed. It's a sprouting seed. It's a sprouting seed. It's a sprouting seed. It's a sprouting seed. It's a sprouting seed. It's a sprouting seed. From a seed to a plant. Once the seed is planted in the soil and watered, it will take about one to two weeks before it starts to grow. This is called the germination stage. Once the seed germinates, it will start to sprout and roots appear. The roots help the plant get food and water from the soil. What comes third in a plant's life cycle? It's the seedling. To grow 2 seeds, we'll start to grow up. Now it's the seedlings begin to grow up, believe it's a seedling seedlings as it knows if you keep the seedlings out there. There you go a Judeflower seedlings that will margin for three weeks and меньше even with honey seeds. In the next few weeks the seed will begin to push through the soil. It is now a seedling. It is still very tiny during this stage and the roots will anchor in the soil and keep it from blowing away. As the seedling continues to grow, it will begin to get leaves and the stem will grow longer and longer. The stem helps the plant stand upright. The stem also delivers water from the roots through tiny tubes. The leaves soak up the light and air to make food for the plant. This process is called photosynthesis. Let's learn about the last stage. Finally, our plant becomes a flower. A bud will begin to appear on the plant and it will turn into a flower. Depending on the type of seed planted, the flower may turn into either a fruit or vegetable or stay a flower. Seeds are located in the center of the flower. Once the plant stops growing, it will drop seeds onto the ground. Some seeds are spread by the wind or by animals. These seeds will begin to grow in the soil and the life cycle of the plant will repeat. How cool is that? Now let's learn the parts of a plant. Which part of the plant is it? It's the flower. Nice job. Which part of the plant is this? It's the leaf. Great thinking. What about this part? It's the stem. Lastly, what part of the plant is this? The roots. Awesome work. Great job. Now let's think about the things that we've learned about plants. Turn to your neighbor and tell them one fun fact about plants that you learned. Awesome work. Great. Now turn to your other neighbor and tell them about your favorite plant. Great job! For more plant activities, make sure to visit twinkle.com. Thank you.