Unknown Title
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YJUO79l4NM
Unknown Category
 We have all the information here for all the words, the minutes, the list of beneficiaries per word we have. And we are going to tab on all of them. Governor, if you check on your page 53, page 53. Mr. Kusin? Look at page 53's appointment. This is how appointments were done. To what? Sorry, which page? 53. Okay. That's an example of one guy who was appointed a later film. Moipen. MCS representative. This was on the 17th of July, 2024. Chair, if you can allow me to read the appointment letter. Okay. Okay. Okay. Proceed. Like now, this appointment letter. Okay. Okay. Proceed. Now, this appointment letter. Okay. Proceed. The current government of Transaia Department of Agriculture, Irrigation, Livestock Fisheries and Co-development is implementing the Fukuza Njai Initiative. The program is aimed at promoting food security in the county by promoting adoption and use of certified may seeds by small-scale farmers. The program involves identification of beneficiaries, training of farmers, distribution of certified may seed, and monitoring and evaluation. The purpose of this letter is to communicate the decision to appoint you as a ward level committee member for the Fukuza Njai Initiative for a period of one year from the date of this appointment. Your duty shall be to attend Fukuza Njai Initiative ward level committee meetings, help in identification and vetting of beneficiaries in accordance with the set-out guidelines, conduct regular monitoring and evaluation, give reports on the progress of the agricultural programs in your ward. I wish you well as well as your advanced services to this great county. This study is surrounded by Artunifani Sinaliaka, the county executive committee member for agriculture. Then on the next page, page 54, there's a sample of the minutes of the meetings that were held. You can go through and see what it talks about. And this applies to all the wards. And we're going to supply appointment letters for all the members, the committee minutes, and distribution lists for the beneficiaries, because we have all of them. Yes, yes, sir. Chair, through you, I think as the governor had mentioned earlier before, that the seven days was not enough for him to organize documents, more documents. The Sia, he has not said whether he has the minutes of all the 25 wards, the 25 committees that were appointed. We have. And if he has all the list of all the beneficiaries. We have. And you have all details, all bank statements that paid Kenya Seed that was procured. Yes. And you have all the details, all those who got the IDs. You have all those. All that. And you can even have a sample. You might even say you've also brought them. You've needed, they can be brought. I will request through the chair that even the samples of the list of beneficiaries should be forwarded. Yes, even the list of. It's not a sample. It's a complete list. The actual list. It's the actual list of the beneficiaries. It is very encouraging to have the entire list. We'll need those lists presented on the chair. Yes, yes. So, Governor, you'll present them now or will you ask for time? We need copies of the lists or originals. We need the original lists because we need copy. We need to have them presented us for the. Because now we are having a. Legible documents. We are having an annual audit. Yes. That just started last week. So, we have the entire list. We will need to have the entire list. We will need those lists presented on the chair. Yes. So, Governor, you'll present them now or will you ask for time? We need copies of the lists or originals. We need the original lists because we need to have them presented us for the. Legible documents. Because now we are having a. Legible documents. We are having an annual audit. Yes. That just started last week. Sir, I think they'll advise illegible documents. And I'm sure they're going to require these documents. This one is actually not proper. Legible. Yeah, because we need to have legible documents so that we don't come around. Because we look at. As long as they're properly marked. Chair, I'll request that. You give us a list of all the documents that you need. So that when you go back to Kitale, we just prepare all bundles and have them delivered here. Okay. Thank you. Yes, Mr. Senator. Yes, sir. I think, as you said, the governor said, there's a kind of conflict. All those things, all the goals that we require. Well, they cannot bring it just in initial time. One other question, how we is up to, honorable governor, what is your long-term plan for seed production? Because now that you are a piece of money, you have to be able to do it. And I think, as you said, I think, as you said, the governor said, there's a kind of money. And you cannot be able to be spending a lot of money almost. You have to spend a hundred million years of time. And what is your plan for seed bulking and the contributions? Do you have a plan for seed bulking? Chair, when county government decides to buy seed for panhand, I think it's a good thing. And it generates a lot of excitement among the farmers. It is a good question. It is a good question. It is a good question. It is a good question. It is a good question. Yes, sir. What is the plan for seed bulking and the contributions? Do you have a plan for seed bulking? Chair, when county government decides to buy seed for farmers, and it generates a lot of excitement among the farmers, it costs to explain the level of poverty among these among these people, especially food poverty. We've given ourselves another baby two years, because we announced a lot of problems, a lot of improvement. There's a lot of food security at the household level now. Actually, we are planning to do a bit of also subsidizing fertilizer, so that we really produce enough food. So once we are satisfied that our farmers can really now produce food, and therefore start engaging in other economic activities, we're going to stop this, because tokenism doesn't last. It appears to be tokenism, really, but we're just in the farmers. So once they are stable, they can go to the shop and buy their own seed, we'll be able to go. Now that you're talking about sustainability, it's important. Here's a follow-up question. Did you follow up? Did your CCM and team follow up to find out, one, whether the seeds germinated? Two, whether they are ready in the field? And three, whether they are proper follow-up mechanisms that you intend to, as it were, M&D, whether you want to, you'll be following up this program as a continuous program of the county, or was it just a one-off? It's not a one-off program, because you can't fight poverty in just one year. So it's a long-term, long-term program. Actually, I'm going to focus on this for my first time in office, these first five years. Provision of seed is going to be key. But here, I want to beg you, because you guys are mchakoragewa in Nairobi, why can't you find time and come to Kitade? Just come to Transway. You want us to visit the farms? Please. Senator, I mean, governor? Please, I can even facilitate it. Just come to the ground. Sort of talking about an academic exercise just being done somewhere. Just come. And see for yourself, especially now. Just come. Because we're talking as if this something just happened somewhere in the air, the beneficiaries are not there. You know, Kenya City, maybe it's not there. Please come to the ground. Sure. Yes, Senator. I think I want to tell the governor that the senator has enough money to go to the field. I can't do the session. We don't do the session. However, it's good to visit the police. To see at least how farmers appreciate the program. Governor, understanding order 228, we are well resourced. So we can arrange, this committee can determine the mode of conducting its proceedings. We can decide after hearing you and after going through all these voluminous documents, to visit, to actually come and see some of the farms. I have noted that in some pages, I think there are people who signed for others. I've seen, for instance, this is Nabiswa. Nabiswa, I can see that Pauline Nasimiyu Kutuhulu and Alubina Naliaka Simiyu have the same ID number. They are both widows and they have the same signature. For instance. So these are the concerns which you may not know. And which the CCA may not even know. But that brings me to the question. Was this program foolproof? Can you speak for this program? Or are there people who receive seeds for other people? Or people who are not poor, who came in and received seeds for other people? No. Chair, the standards that you are holding me through, you can't even hold yourself through. No, I'm on my list of no double-signations. Because when you can get one person, maybe getting to, you know, those things, we must make a provision for them. One person can sign for the other. Really, it happens. But if you want to come to Transwyer, don't take too much time because this maze is not just stagnant. It's growing. You come around October, you find no maze. You never harvest them. So please come in this month of June, July. And we just see the beauty of Transwyer in terms of maze. The plantations and plantations of small-scale farmers. But we may look like it's just a large plantation but they're different. Only by different small-scale farmers. Through the chair. Number four, the submissions on... No, not near page number four. And the eligibility. The acreage was there. Widow, elderly, persons with disability. Resource for individual selection. Here. That is number, page four. Now, I want us to go to page... Page 53. The minutes that we just read. And look at what was introduced. And then that one will inform us to ask a question which I'll bring later. The chair gave out guidelines and criteria to be used for those to benefit from seed maze as follows. One should be a residence of Saboti World. Which page? Mine reads 53. Mine reads 53. Is it both? Yes. The governor's submission. 53? Yes. Page 53. Mine is 53. I think we have an issue with the numbering. Are we all there? Mm-hmm. So, the minute says... The chair gave out guidelines and criteria to be used for those to benefit from seed maze as follows. Should be a residence of Saboti World. At least have 0.1 of an acre of land. Should either be of the above persons. Should be one who can acquire fertilizer for the farm. Now, when the minister was giving directions up here. There was no criteria that they should acquire fertilizer to the farm. Because a poor person. With all the capacity. Cannot be able to buy. Then it brings me to my other question. In the financial preparation of planning. Was there any money set aside for fertilizer? Subsidy fertilizer for the farmers? And if so, how was it used? And how were the beneficiaries found? Thank you, chair. Yes, governor. Yes, governor. Chair, before the governor's response. Please. We got too many questions. The governor, hold on before senator. Yes, I am chairing an ICT committee. Yes. I'm just begging to step out. So, senator, do you have any remarks or any questions or any clarification in use of the governor before you leave? So, you can take up that question together with... No, chair, I think... I am just a friend of the committee. And I believe the committee has their own mandates. So, I think I was just begging for... As I was saying, I was just begging for... Of course, fairness in whatever is being prosecuted. But, I thank you. Senator, I hear you to say that... We are fair in our proceedings. And that you are happy with the proceedings. Thank you. Do you not fair? We are very fair. The senator is a friend. You are very fair. Let me go on record and say... I acknowledge you are very fair. That's our... In our DNA. Governor, proceed. The criteria... The first criteria is talking about 0.1. I want to believe it is a typo. Because the criteria is very clear. And it's done through a circular. No, 2kg... Excuse me, Governor. Now that you've mentioned about a circular, can Waziri provide that circular that she delivered? To the world that... I mean, it's traitors... And the... World agricultural officers... That circular in particular. Yes. I'll supply it in the field. Please, proceed. Thank you. So, in terms of... When you're fertiliser can also mean manure. You know you don't just plant-based. You don't have artificial fertiliser you can get... How much is it? When you're... I think we are dealing with a very serious matter. That's why I generated the next question. Because here it means they can procure their own... Fertiliser. And procuring is a process. It's a... If it were in our culture... Then you could have advised them... Just walk to the nearby farm... If one has no animal. But now my question was specific. Look... This procurement aspect of fertiliser... Why did the minister... Put it here and not on the circular? And I want that circular here. You know you're just encouraging farmers... That whenever you give your certified seeds... And you plant it... Without... Without fertiliser... You're not going to get the six bucks of me... That we are telling you. We may get three. Not because the seed was bad... But because it did not give it enough nutrients. Governor. It's not like... It's just a fast rule... Cast in store. My God, governor. It is not for the person to feel... Motivated by that sentence. That's why there was something called... Public participation. And involvement of the chief... The likuru... The ward... The ward agriculture officer. If it were in their minutes... We would see clearly... They being motivated... To look for an option... To do that. That's why I'm raising this concern... And asking our good Waziri... Give us the memo... That came from your... Office to guide. And in fact... It now brings me to... Do you even have a policy... That guides... These farm inputs? Yes. Can we go maybe question by... By question. Because we're asking... Many questions at the same time. You can respond to... At the reach. At the present time. How many of you have about... You can disaggregate. Start with the first one. You know... We say we are procuring... Seed for poor people. Seed. So you cannot give a condition... That we must be able... To acquire fertilizer. Instead of defeating... If you cannot buy a seed... How can you buy fertilizer? So our focus... Is seed. And we're talking about... Seed. It has got... This one is a misplaced... Sentiment. There by a chairman... Which will be held... Personal account... We're doing this minutes. Because he knows... What they were told. It's not a requirement. And chair... Please get it from me. Because I'm the guest... In charge of that county... And I know what I'm doing there. I have not... Made any requirement... For fertilizer... As a precondition... For getting maize seed. It's not there. Maze can go in... Transaurea without fertilizer. You can boost it with manual. Yeah. And actually we are moving away... From some of the artificial... But for that... Like DAP. The national government... Put 76 million shares... On their budget... For fertilizer... In Transaurea. It was supposed to be... A conditional grant. But it was on our budget. We never saw a single set. If we had gotten that money... We would have been able... To supply both seeds... And fertilizer. And we'd be in a better place. We don't want to talk about three years. We don't want to talk about two years. To sufficiency... Of food security... At the household level. So... Maybe you can move the next question. The policy question. Let me just take... Members through. And... I will request now that... Governors... Stepped in... To say that is an erroneous... Requirement. That the county government... Now... Submits to us... The other minutes... And I want to... Secretariat... Can you check all the other minutes... If that sentence... Appears on the criteria... For... For... For... For the... Now... Looking at... According to... The 2009... County... County... Factsheet... Democratic... Data... Transoya County... Had a total population... Of... 990,341... With... 811... Residing... In rural areas... Down there... Finally... In terms of... Agricultural engagement... 129... Households... Were involved... In crop production... 96,800... Household... In livestock production... And... 6,636... Households... Participated... In other... Family related... Activities... Now... Having that... Statement... That... Either one... Can procure... Fertilizer... Or... They can apply... Manure... From... An informed point... Of view... As a ministry... What are the numbers... Of the poor... Farmer... Who has... Manure... Based on the latest... Survey... That you've done... That can now... Encourage... Manure... To be applied... On 2 kilograms... Of... Seed mice... Governor... Did you bother... To find out... Who has... Manure... Or you just... Gave seed... I think that's the... Long and short of the question... And then the policy question... Respond to the policy... Question... That was... Possible... You know... Chairman... The problems... Of the rural farmers... Are very many... As a county... We are addressing... One now... Which is seed... We give you seed... If you're going to get... Artificial fertilizer... Get manure... And plant with it... So be it... But we've given you... Seed... Go and plant... Because the problem was... They were not even... Planting certified seed... They'll get this year's harvest... Get the best... Product... Put it on some... Some fireside... Not to it... It dries properly... The next... The following year... They plant it... And production... Is going down... Down... Down... So we stepped in... As government... To provide certified seed... All these other things... Are also important... Fertilize is important... Manure is important... But for us... It's not our main concern... The main concern... Is to reach as many farmers... As possible... In terms of certified... Seed... And we're struggling... This year... We did very well... Because Kenya seed... Had previously quoted... A price of 6.90... Which through government... In the intervention... They were able to revise... It turned towards... To 420... Enabling us... To procure almost double... So we reached... Very many farmers... But not all of them... We want to strive... To reach as many farmers... As possible... Just in terms of... Certified nest seed... First... Then now... We'll see as a county... If you can now... Start coming in... In terms of... Of fertilizer... Even if you're just... Providing with... Two kilos... Or four kilos... We want to... Very many farmers... Can actually procure... Procure fertilizer... Even the substance... By the government... You'll supply fertilizer... You put it in a store... And just two farmers... Big ones... They'll come and kill everything... One farmer... Has to go and pick one... Back of fertilizer... Traveling 20 kilometers... Really is not economical... So that was not... So that was not... So that was not... Let me ask you a question... Just to... So are you saying... That... Your fertilizer... Initiative... Aligns well... With the bottom-up... Transformation... Initiative... The seed... The seed... So you are... The seed initiative... So you are... Aligns well... Yes... With that better... So you... You... You actually... Ascribe... I want the national government... Transformation... I want the national government... To come to Transoya... Yes... And benchmark... Yes... That indeed is possible... Even for this bottom-up... Economic Transformation... Agenda... To provide... Even for its fat life... All counting... The world's upside... Which you believe in now... Even before reading that blueprint... Excellent... But now wait... Again... What is the total acreage... That was planted... The seed... That you gave... What total acreage... Was planted... Under that seed... I think that's an important question... The crops can respond... Yes... Because there's information... And what is the projected... Food target... What is the projected production... That you as a county... Expect out of that... In the future... Maybe I want to... The second largest producer... Yes... I mean... When did you start this program... When do you start the program... This was the third year... This third year... Yeah... And every year... You can see progress... In terms of production... So... What's the success... That you are going to tell us... You have a success story... To tell us that... From... The first year... To this year... Yes... Yes... I've been... For the last three years... We have... We have... We have added... One million... One million bucks... From 5.2 to 6.2 million... Okay... Through the chair... I want to appreciate these seats... But I want to... Ask a very critical question... These names that I have... The rubber stamps are there... All of them... From the first page... There is no date... Rubber stamps... Throughout... Very fresh rubber stamps... But there is no date... That is number one... That is number one... Number two... We have given... What would you mean fresh? The ink... Is as new... As dodo... I can hand over... My file to chair... The rubber stamps are fresh... There are no dates... On the rubber stamps... What does a fresh rubber stamp look like? Just as you presented it... Governor... That is my concern... Chairman... Chairman... That is why I was asking... Number two... It's okay... It is very clear... You can hand over the file to... Governor... I also do not... Have expertise in freshness... I can only look through my eyes... My eyes are fresh... I am young and... Smart... Whoever... Thinks about it... Knows what is thinking... Now I am asking... Through the chair... That is the question... These seats as we give... I am getting good projections... Do we have data... Of how... Much each farmer... Harvested... Because... We are running into a problem... In this country... Where we are giving... Farm inputs for free... Over and over... But no institution... Is giving us... Returns and value... For the benevolence... Of the national government... Or benevolence... Of the county governments... And we must ensure... Farmers are self-sustaining... Moving forward... We have data... That... Whose meta-setting... customers... Are all of the charities... Or began... Of�ove payoff... And we must ensure... As a result... Frammer sevi- World... Surkeln... Portable Kafir there... Beside... If we add the advice... What income might these... Currently... Robert Chits problems... One of those outcomes... Fur2... Whew3... Mrs. вопрос... Me... Se SI Late, there... How the bodyità...当 here... That franchise sales... Several resources... We have that information, but for this session we are focusing on this year, I can't really give you that information because we are here to harvest. If you have to wait until we harvest, then we'll know how much base every farmer has harvested from there, see that we've distributed. But if we go backwards, we can give the exact figures. Of course, you can go to every farmer, but you can do an average and see these farmers have increased their production by this much. But the data, the data is there. If you want us to avoid it, include in the list of documents, give us one week, every document will be here. As I finish, because I'll still come back. Why I'm asking that is the national government using their village elders, they assist government in getting data of those vulnerable to get subsidized fertilizer. And if pushed or asked, they can table results. How many extension services do you, extension services officers, are you using to give us feedback? because we would recommend that etc you can round your money. We will come to you in the меньше chevnai region soon. Thank you. As a Brett said, continue to操 nghioto put us on the next page and see this thing in BL 0. Kwaseri can respond with your name with the permission of the one. Through the chair, thank you. As a county, we have a number of extension personnel categorized as the county government and two, we have the agri-premeurs. For agri-premeurs, we have a total of 167 employed by the national government. And for the county government, we have a total of 247. While the world agricultural officers, subcounter agricultural officers, and the field agricultural officers. So we work as a team. Thank you. And do these people do their work? Because I expect by now, the question I have asked, they need to have given you feedback. Because that is a very huge number of people with boots on the ground. Yes, they do. I personally go out with my officers here and give a weekly report to His Excellency the Governor. So through the chair, I request that in the next seven days, they submit to us the 2023-2024 projected outcome of the maize and the actual, because the data, they have given us the data of every farmer. Every farmer. We do have the projection with us. And now I want us, the same way, the spirited filing of the beneficiaries. We are looking forward to get what the farmer harvested out of the benevolence of the state so that we can be able to evaluate. Is it adding value to Kenyans or we are wasting taxpayers' money? Second question with regard to harvesting. Honorable Chair. Sure. Okay. We are talking about harvesting. What is the post-management practices of this maize that we have given to the farmer? The CSF. Post-management. Take us. Governor, I think the UACCM has a very powerful voice. You could respond. Yes. I thank you. Through the chair, we want to indicate that as a county government, we are so much concerned with the post-harvest losses. And through the national government, we received two dryers for Saboti and two dryers for Mabuno and Acheregani sub-counties. We also had a program, K-Sep-Serial, that provided us with mobile dryers which we use for our small farmers. And then as a county government, we have two big dryers that are usually hired. So we are in process of managing. Thank you. Chair Devolution, allow me to execute this matter. Let I finish. Waziri, can you take us step by step? How many dryers does the county government have? Through the chair, I want to indicate that in Transway County, we have warehouses. In these warehouses, which we identified, some of them got dryers from the national government. And I can cite, we have Capcitruet in Kwanzaa constituency that received a dryer. Then we have Mabuno in Cheregani that received a dryer from the national government. Subsequently, subsequently, we also have other donor-funded projects. And in this case, I want to cite the K-Sep-Serial project that was then in Transway County. It is no longer in the county. We received eight mobile dryers and this targeted the small-scale farmers. As a county government, we also... Just post there. Thank you. The Capcitruet dryer, who's running the Capcitruet? It's government-funded to a cooperative. Yes. Right? Yes. The Mabuno dryer is a cooperative, right? Yes. What about Suerwa, Huruma? It is a cooperative, but it did not receive the national dryer. Now? Yeah. That tells you the committee knows, right? Mm-hmm. What about the county dryers that were purchased 2018-2019? For the case of Sinyirei, Yes. when we assumed office, there was a store dryer at Sinyirei Cooperative. Yes. We tried to look for ways of repairing, but the information was given by the mechanics and those people who operate that. There were no spare parts too much at the said dryer. And that's why, up to date, we were unable to source where the dryers were bought from and how we can repair. So as we talk, the dryer is still there. And not working. Not working. Let me, through the chair, take you through the budget, through the chair, and then allow people to ventilate. Say, if you just ask questions. I'm, I'm, you know, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I have to stick to, if you are now on, the next door. Then I want to, if you said I could take this while I was talking about whenever I'm helping you it could that be 10. That's the issues in service. That's the issues we do. If you came from yesterday's, than I wanted, you went to last year slash three year challenge. And maybe I'm. three when you are invited to a committee to deal with a matter there are related matters that the committee can ask and if you have knowledge and the ccm system she can respond if you don't have the information you can seek time to avail documents because there's a a the question of seed maze and this program is closely intertwined with the dryers because that is about about maize that's what you use you dry maze and as i said the ccm has a powerful voice and powerful responses that we all want to listen thank you chair we're about to start speculating because now you ask this question then somebody's giving you can't say that no no she it's possible to say you don't know that we know everything from 2018 up to now what happened in 2018 really governor yodhanu said you proceed if if if there are questions that are asked and where you don't have information ccm would have said no i can get seven days because you'll have time anyway to supply all the documents you need you'll get time then you can appear next time after you've gone through these documents to respond to some of the things you don't have to respond to everything on top of your head ccm i will protect you from the senator if he asks an intrusive question and you can say you don't know and you need time to respond proceed thank you chair thank you for this leverage chair because as a committee we look from the inception of the program to the end of the program so that evaluation when it's done the taxpayer of this republic must know this value for money now i want to take us through a brief as of 30th 2023 transa recorded varied levels of budget utilization across its main programs under crop diversification program actual expenditure amounted to 382 million against and again is an approved allocation of 5 45 million in the post harvest management and value addition program expenditures stood at 38 million compared to an approved estimate of 80 million plus why i'm asking this question is very fundamental to the process of ensuring that the farmer when you give him the free maize with god's grace without fertilizer they harvest enough to dry it if they want surplus to sell and that is what they can eat now if with this budget you have stalled county dryers and running cooperative dryers run by the cooperatives then what value are we adding as a government to the farmer of trans oil and i expected that when you said you have eight other mobile dryers you quickly tell us where they are and their status and kenyans are following to know whether those places are those dryers or the dryers are something else thank you another picture yes ccm respond if you you're able to if you need time you can say thank you through the chair i want to indicate that as a county government we received the mobile dryers and we equally distributed to the five sub counties and they are usually run by the cooperatives we've begun the initiative where cooperatives manage farmers issues uh two uh concerning the seniorary dryer it is not like all dryers have stalled and we are not in a position to procure the spare parts of that particular dryer uh yes senator yes senator i think um you know uh they put the food basket of this country and the kinds of information that we're getting the feedback we're getting they're very sketchy so i don't know i think the government was also prepared as you earlier said so i think uh i'll ask the committee to give to have more questions and more i mean more information to source for more foreign information because we need to know where the county maintains a far more resistant uh farmers indicating the farming kind of what kind of activities they have like crops grown lifestyle camps and these kind of things you know most of us are focusing on kitali for this country's food production especially mix but of course the way the organization playing and i think because you know it and you know what time it happened you are not giving up the real feedback well so i have a question to you what does senator bus the governor is not annoyed the governor is no he looks like he looks like no he's not annoying it's just he's just the sugars are i i put that back at it i will not mention yes governor if you need time you don't say it buses from wajia where they don't farm and he's saying that transpose here is the food basket of this country so if you think you need time because the other questions yes then you can indicate and if the ccm responds is satisfactory she can indicate If she needs opportunity to table documents supporting her statement. If not, then we just proceed. Maybe two other on that. I will just say how much funds is being taken to for farming, for servicing the costs for farmers and maybe how much are they spent as a county. You know, that most important thing is for service. You can plant the maize, but of course, if you don't meet all the requirements for the service, then you lose a lot of base. So but you are not indicating how much was the cost of a post-service, how much base was produced. And you're saying you had three years successful, three years of program. So I think there are a lot of information that I've not been to provide the base by office. So on that, let Senator ask the question so that you see if we can tell. I just want to satisfy the conscience of members here that the figures I gave earlier was 2023-2024. And why I believe that the issues of post-service need to be given a lot of attention. And part of the presentation we expect as Kenyans is that in the financial year 2023-2024, the good county of Transoya spent 60 million 826 as part of post-service management below an approved allocation of 202 million. This indicates the shortcomings that we are hearing here today. I will want Waziri to tell us what mechanisms you are now putting in place. Our order, Senator, is the governor. Sorry. Through the governor of the great country of Transoya, what measures you are putting in place to avoid such kind of embarrassing absorption of national resources? Through the chair, I would like clarity of the 60 million which was used for the post-service. Do you have your performance index 2023-2024 as a ministry? Yes, I want our secretariat to project it on the screen if we are online. Are we there? Then check on your performance index OCD. Well, CCM, the figures are based on the reports of the control of budget. So maybe you want to, if you do not have that report, you may not respond. Chair, some of those figures are strange. We don't remember having put any money in our budget for post-service loss. When we are telling you, you are not prepared, you are not listening? No, no, no. We are prepared. When the money is not on the budget. But you see, now you don't know. The money is not on the budget. So, would the COB write things that are not there? You know, sometimes you buy it for the money. Like, like, it's about 6 million on the budget. I saw it was not there. COB knows the money is on the budget. The money never arrived in Transoil. It's possible. So, when you say we have no money, no budget for post-service losses, as Governor of Transoil, please take my word for it. I'm not speculating. So, Governor, COB, so these figures of COB are to be verified. They should. So, we need to, then, it means that you then need to have the report of the controller, of the auditor general, to know what projections were correct, whether you received those money or not. Because then, we are working on documents that, as you say, are not verified by this. And that's why I said you needed time. Just listen to us sometimes. Chairman, even if you give me a whole year, I can't predict what you want me to give, without giving me the requirements of the document that you need. Because you must tell me you need this and this and this, then I'll provide it. Chair. Senator Abbas. I think, Chair, we are just moving in cycles. The best thing is, let's give the governor all the documents that we require. Let him bring all the documents. That will solve our problem. Governor, it appears that because we do not want to be cyclic in this committee, we don't want to move around circles and to be, or what I would say, to be sinuous or serpentine, where you're going back and forth. And to avoid all these histrionics, that will give you time. The directions are that we give you seven days to table all documents. We will accompany our request to attend with a letter indicating what documents we need or that we're referring to. And then we also will need another seven days to go through all the documents that you have submitted to us. And then certainly we will have another date to interrogate some of these details. As I've told you, some people have signed for others. There are people who are widows twice. A man who is a widow and a woman who is a widow. And we do not know. Signatures are the same. So we need to go through these documents. And when you come back next time, your powerful CCM can then respond to these issues without a doubt. Tell us the documents that you did. We will. And we will avail them. We will be the full list. Because some of these questions are appeared with an ambush. Yes. And it's not for even you as a lawyer, you know these things. Of course, of course, Governor. You cannot doubt that. Chair, can I say something? I'm Osoro Patrick, the Chief Officer of Agriculture and Irrigation. Yes, Mr. Osoro. Through the Governor. Through the Governor. Through the Governor. Through the Governor. Yes, yes. Proceed, Mr. Osoro. Yes. Chair, I wanted you to confirm because I'm the Finance Incharge Accounting Officer for Agriculture. On 2023-2024, I want to confirm that we didn't get 60 million for post-harvest clauses and let it be in record. You are confirming that you don't receive the money? Yes. I'm confirming that the control of budget records are incorrect. Chair. The control of budget, I don't know. But what we have, because that is what was passed in the County Assembly, we didn't get 60 million for post-harvest losses. Chair, may I ask one question? Yes, Mr. Thomas. Maybe I want to ask for clarification. Who is supposed to give you the money? I thought you were already giving the budget. You have the county budget. So whom are you asking for the money? Who was supposed to give you the money? 60 million? Through the Chair. Go ahead. You know, Honourable Senator, we have documents, surely. Why don't we base this argument on the documents? No, I'm only asking you a question. You say that you did not receive the 60 million for post-harvest. The county has their own budget. The county has their own budget. And the government has their own budget. I'm not going to ask you a question. You say that you did not receive the 60 million for post-harvest. The county has their own budget. Was that money supposed to be part of the budget of the county? Was it coming from Voloka? Was it coming from the national government? Do you be very specific? Through the Chair, the money was not in the budget. We did budget for it. And it was said it was one of the budget and to a kind of environment to a bio figure. Our approved budget by the county assembly, which I said it through, does not have a provision of 16 million for post-harvest losses. Senator, we have said, Abbas, Governor, we will avoid all these histronics. We will add John. Before we add John, Governor, do you have anything to say on behalf of your team? Chairman, the whole thing I want to say is that for us to prepare well to come to the Senate, we should be given what the Senate requires. So if you are going to talk about procurement, and then you were taking most of the time talking about other related issues, that nobody gave us even a hint that we are supposed to come and respond to them. We come here and then we appear as if we are not prepared. But believe you me, if you give us the list of requirements, we will be the first people to come here and produce that list. But come here and go, you know, when you say this, someone says, you know, really, we want to have those nitty gritties that a governor will not have that information. I'll have to get that information. But the information is available. So just give us adequate time. Give us what we need. And let this session not just about procurement of Maysib, because honestly it's not. We are discussing the entire Department of Agriculture in Transoya and the activities of that department. But we came here knowing that we are talking about procurement of Maysib and if the purpose was above board and who benefited. But now we have discussed the Department of Agriculture, even before I came in office 2018. How can I know those things? But if you told me that we are going to come from that time, I'll go to the archives and I'll get the information. I won't say that I'll call a guy and I'll just provide that information as the governor of Transoya. Just as simple as that. Governor, senators, do you have any? I think it's closing. What I'm saying is that, actually, I want you to open your mind. We have done our best to at least a community for today. Because we have to call the chairman to sit out of the city and we need to stand aside. We have to call the committee to sit down and we have another chairman. But you still don't open up very well. So please, next time you come, I want you to open your mind and tell us the truth about that. Because we have no political interest here. We never belong to a party, we never belong to a police. This is our senator's house. We were senators and we will give you the fair hearing. So please, I want you to come next time for a chairman with all respect. You have an open mind that. You can be asking any questions. Because when somebody is ordering you, even when you go to court, the judge will ask you every question. You know that must be told everything. So with all this respect, please feel free. And next time please answer the questions properly. Not with a bit of prejudice. We don't have any prejudice. This is a committee of nine people. And if you are not believing in the chairman, then believe in us. And we will give you a fair hearing. Is that okay? Senator. Thank you honorable chair and members of the committee. and the team from the great country of Transsoya and the secretariat. My finishing remarks will be as follows. The, the, the ministry of agriculture is a broad ministry. And it's the backbone of this country and the great country of Transsoya. The, the, the ministry of agriculture is a broad ministry. And it's the backbone of this country and the great country of Transsoya. The farmers of maize are the majority in Transsoya. We have peasant farmers, those who are getting two kilos of maize. And we have cash crop farmers, those with big tracts of land. And it's very important that when an investment of that magnitude is invested in the people, the people must transcend or improve from dependency syndrome to self-sustaining. And that must be done through collaboration of both the local leadership, the county leadership, and the national leadership. What has been exhibited here today is a true reflection of what is happening across the country in the ministries of agriculture. And for us to change the wheel as a committee and as a Senate, we must delve deeper from the beginning to the end of the value chain. And ensure the taxpayers money is accounted for. And the people are satisfied and contented that truly the process is above board. They are harvesting what they deserve and the country gets the due fare of the tax they give. And the people are satisfied that they are not fair. I am very sorry if we have brushed shoulders here. But we are basically saying that people must be held accountable. accountable. And that is why we are asking detail by detail, document by document, to ensure that the perception and aspersions carried forward by people, that this committee is not fair, must be dispelled off with. And the people must know that the Senate of the Republic of Kenya has turned a new leaf on oversight, accountability, and representation. And the time that is going to be given must be used prudently to facilitate this House with correct, accurate, prompt information that can hold any one of us accountable. We are going to go through these documents with a toothpick and ensure that what has been said is truly and nothing but the truth. I want to stop at that and thank the great people of TransOIA for coming, for opening up, sharing with us, and want to commit ourselves to be champions of democracy and defenders of devolution. Thank you very much. Thank you. Governor, finally, let me just also thank you. And just know two things. One, you have not updated your website to include complete financial documents. I would require under PFM to do that in good time so that that does not become an issue. Number two, I don't know why you are worried about Mitego. This is not State House where there are Mitegos. Here, this parliament, we have no Mitegos and there are no people who are in charge of Mitegos to trap others. Here, we are just a committee doing its work above board and we will ensure that we treat all of everyone fairly. That is how it is. And you have a big team of officers who appear competent. They scream to understand. Now, I think we have given you timelines, the seven days. We will also require of you to indicate to you if there are documents we are referring to within the contents or the letter that we shall write to you. Then we can convene again after we have gone through, after recess. So you have enough time. But the department, the chief officer who is saying he did not receive money but the records say he received. The CECM who is here and who has a powerful voice responding to every question on point. When you come back, I am sure you will even have better responses to the question. So that as the chair then said, we deal with everything. And you also show us how beneficial this program is to the country and to your people so that it is not a loss-making enterprise. So that we can emulate this program. Personally, I give seed and now I am in the process of going around the farms to see how the seeds have turned out. And that is how it is. So I thank you very much. Have a good journey back to me. Can you talk back this here? Can you talk back and have your documents submitted properly? I can request that some are not clear. The pages that are not page 13, page 12, page 16, all those things are not. So that you are not prejudiced when a report is written and a document is not legible. It is only fair that we treat you well so that you don't say that you are... Then you can sign all of them. Governor, you said you are in office so it is okay. It is a good thing. Just sign that you don't have... I think you paginate. Let CFO, that is your work. The chief officer, agriculture. I am sure they are paginated. You have a clean document. You know the governor, you are too smart for some of these documents. You cannot be giving us documents that are not... You have three days. You are too smart. Three days. Yes. But you are too smart. Well, at least on TV. Thank you. So, Pumalia, you are just a few questions. Thank you. So, we formally adjourn the meeting to when we convene next. Thank you very much. You can take a lead. Thank you very much. I am sorry, you can take a lead. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. You come back to the meeting to the meeting. Thank you very much. I am not sure nobody will accept me. I am not sure you are free. The man, they are not gratifying me. The guy left me right there. Yeah, the guy left me right there. We are nervous. We are not too late. All emails I hear from them, oh dear. Let me wait. Of course, there is a problem. Thank you very much. You have to write your head. All right. Can you assist me for this? Found you. This is howºceF disc is Gomez damals. I have to pay for this photo and give me okay? The magnum juiceistent for me right there in JAX? This is how used to be 10 times nobody. So, you should go. Say, hold... You are as an字 Incorporal.