As climate change hurts crops scientists explore new foods
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YWBiMBnzQg
News & Politics
 Some scientists believe America's breadbasket could soon be empty and they're warning a relentless drought is harming the nation's wheat crops. Scorching temperatures, dry soil, and low water resources have put wheat production in Kansas and other Midwestern states at risk. Researchers say the problem is severe and they're turning to more unorthodox crops to fill the gap. Let's bring in Jenny Morber. She's a science journalist who reports on climate resiliency and food. Jenny, so what's the scientific evidence that climate change is reducing the nutritional value of foods? Yes, so there's a lot of studies. There's many, many studies that show that climate change is affecting both the caloric value of foods and the nutritional values. So that nutritional type, amount, and quality of our foods. Research studies show that our foods are decreasing in protein and iron and in zinc and B vitamins. So there's a large body of research showing that this is happening and it's happening more and more as climate change worsens. So let's take that a step further. What foods are most affected? Some that are being affected right now are just our staple crops. Corn is a big one, wheat, barley, and there's other crops that we know and love that will be affected and are being affected too. There's chocolate, coffee, cherries, maple syrup, wine grapes. Those wonderful foods that we all love are and will continue to be affected. Now, are these food products that are especially sensitive to, let's say, rain and sunlight and heat? Yeah, yeah, yeah. So some of them are very drought intolerant. Some, like coffee, have developed various diseases and they're being attacked by something called coffee rust. Maple syrup, maple trees don't do well if it, you know, it doesn't get cold enough. And cherries also require some cool temperatures. Corn and wheat require a lot of water. So the water is an issue. And it just, our crops have specific needs and those environments, environment changes. Some of them can't, just can't make up for it. All right. Thanks for explaining that. So how are scientists trying to problem solve this? Right. Well, there's several different ways. One is through genetic engineering, trying to help enable the crops that we know and love, be able to withstand these differences in climate, you know, drought, floods, things like that. But another way to do this, another alternative is to look at the crops. They're naturally just kind of resilient. So some of these are like millet. Millet is a crop that can take really high temperatures. Sea beans is one that most people probably aren't eating right now, but you can actually use salt water instead of, instead of, instead of. No kidding. Yeah. Pretty surprising. They taste amazing. They taste like salty cucumbers. Another thing with sea vegetables, like kelp, you know, you don't need, you don't need any land to go kelp. You can grow that in the water and it's incredibly nutritionally dense. So how are scientists striking this balance between, you know, the foods that are good for us and then these genetically modified or genetically adapted foods? Right. Well, it just depends on the different, the different answers, different ways you want to go. So of course, there's always going to be foods that we want. So the foods that we know and love, we don't want to see those go away. So we're trying, the scientists are trying to find ways to genetically engineer, you know, drought tolerant ability to live with less water to, to, you know, to be more resilient to pests and things like that. But they're also trying to grow crops in areas where they might be more suited for the environment. Crops that, you know, need more water. Maybe we can grow them in a place that, that has more water. And then like these other more resilient crops, trying to help people get more used to eating them. Jenny Morber, thank you for your research and your analysis. Thank you so much. It was so good to be here. Of course.