Inside the Co-op: Inside a Grain Elevator
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8gPF4L5NP34
Education
 Hello, I'm Trevor Hance. I'm the director of communications for the Garden City Co-op. Today I'm joined by Gabe Bautista and Victor Duarte here at our Garden A elevator location. As you saw in an earlier video, we kind of took a look at the whole process of how green elevators work. Today we're going to get an inside view of one of those elevators. These are some of the older elevators we have. We have a couple new ones that are fully automated that you don't actually get inside, except for the actual silo themselves. So today we're going to take a look at all the pieces that make some of these older slip form style elevators work. So Gabe, can you tell me what happens when a farmer brings in a truckload of grain here to the elevator? Yep, well, the truck will pull onto our scale. We'll get them weighed, get all their information and put it onto the computer. From there, we'll probe the truck. If it's wheat or soybeans, we'll run it through the kicker. Or if it's corn and milo, we'll just run it through our moisture tester. And depending on the moisture, we'll either run it through the dryer. Or if it's not that way, we'll just finish drying it down with our aeration. And from there, we'll send the truck on over to the elevator. We are now in the inside receiving pit. This is where the truck will pull in and unload the grain. When we pull this lever here, it will allow the grain to flow into our boot pit. And now here we are in the boot section. As you can see, this right here is the gate that we opened earlier to allow the grain to flow from the inside pit to the boot section of the leg. Which will allow the buckets to carry it 120 feet up to the distributor floor. We are now here at the distributor floor. From here, we are able to move the grain to the desired bin or to a belt on either the east or west side of the gathering floor. Or to the scale for a loadout. Each number corresponds to a bin or spout to move the grain. We have to manually move the distributor to the desired spout on the floor to move the grain. Next, we move down to the gallery floor. Well, we just left the distributor floor where we set up the distributor from the scale to going to the west belt, which is right here. Now, we are going to allow the grain to come from the distributor down that scale onto our west belt. So, now the grain is falling onto the top west belt, which will carry it on down to our tripper, which will dump the grain to the designated bin. What is this contraption here? Well, this right here is our tripper and it is driven by the belt. This right here is our brake lever and this right here is our drive lever. Pulling the drive lever down will let the tripper move up forward and pushing the lever up will allow the tripper to go backwards. So, these individual sprockets we see here, does this operate kind of like a throttle where the further over the faster you go? Yes, exactly. So, what are we looking at over here? That right there is our north spout. We also actually have one on the other side, which is our south spout. They are both controlled by that wheel up there, which allows the grain to either get dunked into the south side of the elevator or the north side of the elevator. Okay. Okay, Gabe. So, essentially the truck comes in. We saw that from the bottom of the hopper, the grain is released, goes into the receiving pit. And then from there goes the boot pit. And then from there it is set up to the distributor floor to which then that is sent down to the gallery belt. And then the belt takes it to the tripper where it is then sent off to the designated vent. So, after the grain comes in, your job kind of shifts, you and Victor's job shift to just maintain quality control of the grain through the vents here, right? Yeah, and we do that by monitoring our hot spots, which is some temperature cables that we have in each one of our bins. If we notice that the temperature keeps on going up after they brought the grain in, then we know we either got a moisture problem or we got a bug problem. In which if we have a bug problem, we fumigate it. If we have a moisture problem, we turn the bin and run air through it. What would become your normal desired temperature range where you usually want to keep grain in? Well, the temperature range where I like to keep my grain is 40 to 50 degrees is where I like to because that's where the bugs are dormant. So, you know, if you got your grain at 40 degrees, you shouldn't have a bug problem. So that does require kind of a lot of cooling then, especially when you're dealing with your summer days. Our aeration helps out a lot. We try to, in the night, we turn on our aeration and then when we get to work in the morning, we turn it off so that way it's not sucking in moisture from the elements outside. So the grain has been stored. What happens when the grain is sold? Well, the grain handling process basically gets reversed. Yeah, because you're basically taking the grain that's been stored in these bins and now we're putting it back into trucks, right? Yeah, and that process begins down in our tunnel, though. You want to go see? Sure. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. So we are currently standing here under bin number five. And right next to us, you have the cables which control the airflow to this bin. And what that is, it pulls the air, the cool air from the top and sucks all the moisture inside of the bin out and throws it outside. So basically it's replacing the moisture with cool air. Okay. And. So, so, you know, you see a lot of them, especially the doer ones, having a fan on the outside. That's one thing on the inside. Yeah. On half the elevators on the inside. The other guy, it's just like the other guy. You know, just have half on the outside. Gotcha. So what can you tell me about this machine right here? Well, that there is our air compressor. And we use that to minimize the dust, seeing as how rain dust can be really explosive. The air line goes throughout the whole elevator, top distributor, down the floor. And in every floor we have a set of hoses, which we also have the correct nozzle tip for OSHA standard. And that's what we use to blow down the floors. To keep everything clean. Yeah. Gotcha. Okay, so, I mean, I've noticed these chutes, this must be where the grain flows down when we're ready to sell it, right? Yeah, exactly. That's where the grain comes and drops onto the bell. And from the bell, it shoots down to the leg distributor. You want to follow me down there? Sure. This is our leg distributor. And this wheel right here determines whether the grain goes to the south leg or the north leg. So, you've got the grain that comes down out from the selected bin. It goes onto the tunnel belt. From the tunnel belt it comes to this leg distributor. And then it goes onto either leg. Where does the grain go from there if it's going to be loaded down to a trash? Well, from there, the leg takes it up to the distributor floor. The distributor floor will drop it down to our west belt floor. And from the west belt floor, it'll take it to the trimper. And from the trimper, it should take it to our loadout bin. From the bin to the truck and out it goes. So, basically there's a lot of repeat in the process that we've already been through. It's just now we're going to be moving that grain instead of into a storage bin. It's going to a loadout bin. Yeah. Above us here are our loadout spouts. We can also load out from inside our receiving area, but prefer to load out here because it's faster. As soon as the truck is filled up, it will proceed to the scale where it will be weighed out. Okay, so we've got our truck loaded out there at the elevator and they come back to the scale house. So, what happens to finish up this whole process? Well, they pull onto our scale, we get them weighed, we probe them, enter their test weight and moisture onto the computer with the rest of their information. And from there, we finish filling out their paperwork, print it, give them a copy, give them their copy and send them on their way. Alright. Well, thanks, Kay. Appreciate the tour. Not a problem at any time. Not a problem at any time.