20 BEST Vegetables Fruits & Herbs for CONTAINER GARDENING: Growing in the Garden
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8omrQIX8R1g
Education
 It's no secret I'm a big fan of container gardening and in today's video I'm going to share my top 20 crops that I think you should grow in containers. But if we haven't met before my name is Angela from Growing in the Garden and I love to share garden inspiration and helpful tips so you can be successful in your own garden. Let's start with the crop that everyone loves to grow in their garden, tomatoes. Choose a large enough container and water it well and tomatoes will happily grow in a container. Tomatoes need plenty of water and adding an olla or growing that tomato in a self-watering container can help meet the needs of that tomato. It's also a good idea to just grow one tomato per container. Tomato plants can get large and they don't like to fight for room. Squash is another plant that grows well in containers. Squash can take up a lot of room in your garden but growing it in a container will allow it to have plenty of room to spill over the outside and it won't take up so much room in your garden bed. Leave plenty of room around the container for the plant to grow large and grow with an olla. Small varieties of winter squash like mini jack pumpkin also do really well in containers. Lettuce and other greens like spinach and arugula are made for containers. They often grow better in containers than they do in the ground. They have a small root system and they grow quickly. They need regular access to water and they will grow really well. Eggplants also do really well in containers. Choose small compact varieties like fairy tail and bambino. Eggplants prefer warm soil and that means you can plant earlier in the spring if you grow in containers. Peas are another great option to grow in containers. Peas love to climb so give them something to climb when you plant. The shallow root system of peas grows well in containers and they're easy to plant from seed. Look for dwarf varieties like little marvel, sugar ann and tom thumb. Sweet potatoes are also a great option for containers. Sweet potatoes grow happily in a large container. Those vines are going to spill out but let those vines keep growing. All that energy is being directed into that sweet potato. Believe it or not carrots are a great choice for growing in containers. I like to grow carrots in a container that's at least 12 inches deep. Plant carrots by seed and then thin to three inches apart. Onions are a great choice for containers. I love interplanting onions among other crops and containers in my yard. They make an excellent companion plant. Garlic is another top choice for containers. They grow well all by themselves or interplanted like onions as companion plants in other containers. Garlic grows well even in small containers. Peppers are a great choice for containers because they grow best with good drainage and containers often provide that. Another advantage to growing peppers in containers is that they prefer warm soil and containers often heat up quicker in the spring which means you can plant them and they will start producing earlier. In cold climates you can bring those pepper containers inside to overwinter. Potatoes are my next choice. I actually prefer growing potatoes in containers. Potatoes like acidic soil which is easy to provide when you're growing them in containers. It's much easier to harvest container grown potatoes as well. Dump them out into a wheelbarrow when it's time to harvest. Okra is another container favorite. This warm season crop grows through the summer and into fall. I like to interplant okra with other quick harvesting crops and then it will take all the space after those finish. Swiss chard is another great choice for containers. It tolerates a little cold and a little heat. It's easy to grow from seed. Harvest as needed for months. Kale is a cool season crop that's easy to grow. A frost improves the flavor. It does well even in small containers. Cauliflower can be tricky to grow but it grows really well in containers. Cauliflower doesn't like it too hot or too cold. That container should be at least 12 inches deep. Cabbage is another cool season crop that grows well in containers. Strawberries are a great choice for growing in containers. Growing strawberries in a container gets them up off the ground and away from pests. Day neutral and ever-bearing do best in containers. Citrus trees are another one of my favorite crops to grow in containers. There are so many fun varieties of citrus that I want to grow and growing them in containers helps limit their size and lets me plant more citrus. It keeps those citrus roots out of my garden beds and contained in that container. In cooler climates you can bring those containers indoors to overwinter. I also like growing fig trees in containers. Fig trees can grow large but growing them in a container helps to slow their growth and limit their size. Growing figs in containers also means that you can bring those figs indoors if you live in a cool climate. Almost any herb grows really well in a container but my favorite herbs to grow in containers are the invasive ones like mint oregano and lemon balm. When you grow those in the ground or in raised beds they will spread and can take over an area but when you grow those in a container it helps to keep those roots contained. Growing in a container also means that you can move that container to the shade during the hottest months of the year in hot climates. In cold climates some of those herbs may die back mulch them well and they'll probably re-emerge in the spring. Those are my top 20 choices for growing in containers. Tell me in the comment what your favorites are. Thank you so much for watching. 밀 quelque的消費者 metam Auburn me like