Unknown Title
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8Q2aq83WeVY
Unknown Category
 If the weatherman is to be believed, we got a big ice and snow event coming, so we got a lot to do today to get ready for it. So let's get to work. Got to do a little work on my gate up here at the entrance to our place. Cows have rubbed the T-post, loosened it up, got to drive it in a little farther. Then I need to grease the gate. This gate, the hinges need to be greased every few months. Doesn't take much. This T-post that the gate comes up against during the night time when the gate is closed, the cows rub on it. You can see it's all loose. It needs to be driven in a little farther. Got this automatic gate opener. It's really handy, but it's gotten a little bit out of adjustment. Doesn't quite close, likes about three or four inches. So I'm going to make a couple of rounds adjustment there and hopefully that'll do it. This gate's been really handy because the calves don't respect the cattle guard, so I have to close this at night time. Still needs a little bit more adjustment. Got to give it a couple more turns. Didn't quite get it enough there. That's no better. I guess we're just going to have to leave it that way or until I read the owner's manual and figure out another way to do it. I also got the gate down here at the creek place. It needs to be greased as well. A little cold today so that grease is a tad stiff. It's only the second day of captivity and Roger has already learned to eat. And getting right in there with the big boys. Get back girls. Lots of things to do today before the expected winter storm arrives, but extra feeding is the order of the day at every place. I have several cows that are really fat, but this one right in front of us right now, 578. One of the reasons she's so fat is ever since I've had her, she has sucked other cows after they've had a calf and most people would get rid of her, but she doesn't seem to get enough to hurt the calves. I just keep her, but that's why she's so fat. I'm feeding these cows hay every other day until the weather gets bad. It's supposed to get bad this weekend and stay bad for a week, so pretty soon I'll have to start feeding them hay every day, but I'm trying to stretch that out as long as I can. As you can see, the cows are in really good shape, so they don't need a lot of extra feed right now. But probably as the weather gets bad next week, they'll start getting hay every day just to give them enough energy. I counted these cows and I'm missing one, so we've got to go find one. And as I suspected, it's the loner, along with the dot in their face, off of our cell. Here before I start feeding hay every day, I usually try to spread out cubes right beside the hay that I fed yesterday so that when they finish the cubes, hopefully they'll go clean up that hay that they haven't quite cleaned up. We've got to ramp up this water outlet out here in the yard before the single digit temperatures occur. These old insulated coveralls were worn by both of my sons when they were back on the farm, but that's been 25 years ago and I'm pretty sure they won't fit either one of them now, so we'll just use them for insulation. Now that really cold weather's here, I have to plug this little feeding tractor in every morning for an hour or two before it starts. It doesn't have glow plugs like my big tractor, so this helps it start a lot easier on these cold mornings. Winter used to be my favorite season of the year on the farm. I enjoy feeding the cattle hay and watching the new babies be born. I still like it, but the older I get, the better I seem to like spring and fall. We're expecting a big ice storm starting this afternoon or tonight, so the wind is out of the east. I'm going to spread this bale out on the west side of this timber so it's a little bit warmer for them. And then I've got to go up to the pond and check out where I'm going to have to chop ice. I don't know since we've cleaned the pond out, so I've got to take a look at it and see where I'm going to chop ice because we're going to need to chop ice either tomorrow morning or the morning after. Winter's here. Winter's here. Winter's here. You can tell a lot about what kind of weather is in store by observing livestock, and as hungry as these cattle seem today, I believe that we're in for falling weather, and I'm not looking forward to it. But if the cattle and the weather forecasters are right, at least it does give me a chance today to get some of the things set up for the colder weather with the bale rings and waterers and things like that. With this freezing rain and snow coming, I wanted to get the bale rings out and get them set up because probably if it gets really bad, we'll have to put some hay in the bale rings instead of unrolling it. Got to find a place where it's going to be deep enough to chop ice, and the cows look like they're used to coming here, but that doesn't look very deep there. I think that'll work right here though, maybe. Today before the storm arrives, I'm trying to unroll hay in places that'll maybe be sheltered from the winter weather a little bit, the blowing wind and snow and ice that we're expected to get, try to put the hay along these tree lines and maybe protect it from the weather a little bit more. Well, Louie and I both agree it's time to call it a day. The P appropriate is to my cat for our country in every man. All in all the roads.ز Witchfield, Beetle o'dee ,tip,BT―