Modern Agriculture Machines That Are At Another Level - Amazing Inventions Havent See Before - #TZ72
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8ZCuSs8ljtA
Science & Technology
 Thank you. Thank you. An optimized tunnel sprayer machine protects strawberry plants from diseases and harmful insects, ensuring you can enjoy plump and juicy strawberries. Mesmerizing with the process of cleaning, sorting, and packaging oranges before distribution. Check how this machine can restore the irrigation system of the field. The Brielmeyer monster easily moves and collects weeds in swampy areas. Music Hope a mouse 6 has shown how it has led the market. With a widening system of up to 10.2 meters, it quickly collects even a mountain of sugar beans. Music The impressive adjustment mechanism is used to harvest an entire cabbage field in just one hour. Music I wonder how to wash that pile of sugar beets in the blink of an eye. And the Halara BR-2000 cleaning machine can do just that. Music You will be amazed by the scale of this spraying machine, which can cover up to 190 feet with its two arms. It is estimated to be 50 times that of a normal person. Music Music You will be amazed by the size of the size of the ball. It is a 3-in-1 machine that can till, furrow, and drills holes for seating. Music This powerful Colossus machine collects and immediately packages the neatest cotton. Music The NG-1S combines many of DJI's advanced technologies, including the new A3 flight controller and a system of innovative sensors to ensure reliable and safe flight. The new liquid atomization system is designed to distribute the mixture as accurately as possible. The drone is equipped with four nozzles in the front and rear. And it also has three spray modes, front, rear, and full. Two pressure modes are available, intensive and productive. And if you need to monitor how much fluid is left in the tank, you can do so thanks to the new flow and pressure sensors. Music Cutting down trees in urban areas requires accuracy, which is where the Lumberjack LJ450 comes in handy. Music If you have a poultry farm, the Robot XO is definitely something you should consider. It is a tool for disinfection and environmental analysis of poultry. Music Thanks to precise vibrations of the machine, not a single apple is left on the tree. Music The driver has fulfilled the dream of not having to make a turn and still being able to turn around. Music The Shia Monet is an eco-friendly weed killing machine that uses hot foam to keep Crofts healthy. Music Enjoy filling up the warehouse without any manual intervention. Music The rotary stick is the perfect device for land leveling and conversion. Music The feed bed of the Morbark Model 6400 XT Horizontal Groundwork has sloped sides and is 24 inches longer than previous Morbark grinders with more than 1,000 horsepower. This configuration improves operator visibility for more efficient material loading. The Wood Hog model comes standard with a removable return floor in the feed chain to dump excess material and reduce wear and tear. Weighing less than 96,500 pounds and measuring 11 feet 5.5 inches wide, this equipment model features a standard Caterpillar 325L undercarriage and a 23.5 inch dual ground track tracks. Music This powerful John Deere can harvest wheat with an impressive output of 100 tons per hour. Music It's like a Tetris game made for dry grass. Music Music This device allows farmers to collect over 300 kilograms of almonds in a short amount of time. Music The Arbus 4000 machine is designed to quickly and efficiently spray insecticide. Music Music With the help of a 255 centimeter rod, a large tree can be removed in seconds. Music To solve the tree pruning problem, the farmer created a super fast branch trimming machine. Music Meet your friends. This is the MFT 2040 6x6 Firefighting Combination Truck, manufactured by Baijiu. It is a 4WD base forwarder with a modern 6 cylinder Dutz Stage 5 Tier 5 Industry 240 horsepower engine. With AdBlue technology driven by a Danfoss hydrostatic transmission with computer control and load sensing. The axles are made by NAF. All tires are still reinforced as it weighs 30 tons together with all the additional firefighting equipment. It is equipped with a powerful load sensing hydraulic system with an operating pressure of 250 bar. This is necessary to operate the 7 and a half foot wide front mulcher. The equipment is powerful enough to handle entire trees, create fire barriers that can contain overhead fires, and clear areas to prevent ground fires from spreading. The robot automatically removes weeds that affect crops. The machine is equipped with a Scania V8 engine rated at 450 horses. You see the green cargo self-loading self-propelled manure spreader, the brainchild of the Belgian company, Bimotte. The machine is equipped with a Scania V8 engine rated at 450 horsepower, but production machines will be converted to a 13.5 liter deer engine, which can develop 400 to 600 horses. The spreader here is standard Tornado 3 from Joskin. At the same time, it combines the characteristics that form the basis of the machine's concept, durability, ease of use, and maintenance. Spreading widths generally range from 7 to 16 meters, depending on the product being spread. To achieve this result, the vertical shafts rotate at a speed of 423 revolutions per minute and spread the product with their teeth made of HB400 steel. At their base, there are two blades that act as hammers in addition to spreading. The Monchero hazelnut collecting machine completes the task efficiently. With the continuous operation of the saw blades, weeds are completely removed from the garden. The agricultural robot assistant harvests grapes to analyze grape growth. The Monchero hazelnut collecting machine is a perfect product. And now you know who made those perfect rectangles. While you are struggling with the deadline, here is a robot that has done an exceptional job of picking blueberries. And here is how they remove pumpkins that don't meet standards for Halloween. Say goodbye to tired hands and dull saws. The FZ465 Stump Cutter comes to the rescue to clear your area of stumps, both above and below ground. This is a true professional in this field, which is easily attached to the hydraulic boom of any construction equipment. A wide variety of fasteners are available to you to ensure perfect compatibility and performance. The FZ465 is not just a tool, but the key to a clean and tidy landscape. The ProPlus Skid Steer Grater is an innovative new attachment that will take your leveling and leveling operations to the next level. See how the ProPlus performs in various ways in this product demonstration. The company tested the attachment on a gravel road, an off-road riding trail, and an equestrian area. Just look at how cleanly and efficiently the Skid Steer system performs in such a wide range of applications. From heavy leveling to precision layout, this attachment can be relied upon. The road sides start to look more overgrown than your garden after a vacation. It's time to call in the Ducker SGG Schneid Grief geblaze. This miracle machine not only perfectly cuts any grass in its path, but also collects it without the hassle of filling its spacious tank. Goodbye garbage collectors and broom pickers. This mechanical wizard does all the dirty work himself. Robot system completes the task of evaluating fruit quality and ripeness. The electric weed killer. If forklifts had superpowers, the Ventrac would definitely be a superhero. Equipped with a long grapple and a powerful bucket, this multifunctional craftsman turns any task into a one-man show. With him, tree removal projects become a fun performance, not a dirty job. And don't worry, it won't leave a mess behind. Thanks to its miraculous flex frame, the Ventrac maneuvers through difficult terrain like a ballerina, leaving no chance for piles of derelict branches. The powerful 250 SM Vario quarry harvester is used for selective mining of raw material with uniaxle compressive strengths up to 120 mPa. The 8.2 foot wide, 8.2 foot wide milling unit, precisely matched to the job parameters with a working depth of up to 1.48 feet, guarantees maximum productivity with minimal wear. In backfill mode, cut rock is dumped behind the machine, creating a level embankment suitable for crossing. The combined center of gravity above the cutter drum axis ensures maximum force transfer from the cutter to the rock. The fully glazed operator cab is equipped with a heater, air conditioning, sound and vibration isolation to reduce operator strain and help improve efficiency. The electric weed killer will definitely be a gift that pleases many gardeners. The 4.7 foot wide, 10.5 foot wide, 10.5 foot wide. And those are the most modern agricultural machines. machines. If you want to see more agricultural machinery, drop your thoughts in the comments below. And if you found this review helpful, give us a like, smash that subscribe button and turn on notifications. Catch you in the next video. Bye.