Agrarian Life Part 1
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8ZfIj29i5BQ
Education
 Shalom, shalom. I am Moray Amir Rider and I just wanted to do this quick video to show you a little bit of what I'm going to be doing today on my land. If you follow Torah Culture Assembly, TCA, you would know that we are all about practicality and functionality. We want to make sure that we have an understanding of the scriptures according to what our ancestors would have understood the scriptures to be. And one of those things is husbandry. So we're really about getting into the agricultural perspectives of the text and with practical applications. So just come over here real quick. So this compost pile here just started this compost in like mid-October. So it's only been here about a month. So it's a new pile, but we're going to use this compost to help provide that fuel and that sustenance that our soil needs when it comes time for planting and spring. But what we're going to do today is we're going to relocate this pile to an other area of the land because it's a little too close to my home for comfort. And plus we're going to use this portion of the land here. This is what we're going to be tilling today, breaking up that soil, getting a lot of this debris and stuff out of here. So we're going to be getting this soil ready to plant in the spring. One thing that I want to do is I want to get some watermelons here. I want to grow some watermelons, seeded watermelons. All right. That's one thing that I want to grow here, but I got to get the soil right. I got to get the pH right. So this is going to come in handy and making sure that soil is rich and fertile. And I got some lime. I had this soil professionally tested by the county. And so they told me the things that my soil was deficient in. So I'm using this time during the dead season to get this soil prepared for the spring. So I got some lime here. I got some compost and some manure. And so we're going to be transporting this over there. We're going to break up this soil over here and get everything going. It's going to look real good. So just get a shot of the ground. You see some of this debris and stuff right here. We just moved on to this property at the beginning of the spring or excuse me, the beginning of the summer this year. So we didn't have a chance to do pretty much anything on this land so far. So this particular area here, I've tested four areas on the land. And this one was the most ready to actually grow food. So what we're going to be doing here is, like I said, clearing this stuff out. There's a lot of rocks, bricks, glass and stuff here. Come here. So there's all types of grass and stuff here. That we're going to be clearing out today. It's going to be me, my sons. I got some help coming. And so we're going to be clearing out a lot of this trash that's here to get this all ready for the planting season. And so that's what we're going to be occupied with today. I got my goats out. They're roaming around somewhere in the front of the house right now. But that's where they are. I have two males, two female goats. Like I say, it's new. We're in the infancy stages of what we're trying to do here with the homestead. But once again, I got some raised beds down there. But we're trying to get this stuff ready. And when you really get into the agricultural aspect, right, the agrarian aspect of living, the scriptures begin to come to life. And, you know, you get away from a lot of the religiosity and some of the stuff that's being said in scriptures. If you don't have that agrarian background, you actually won't even understand it. And you can study all the books that you want. You can do all this research. But it never really makes sense until you actually do it, until you're actually getting your hands dirty, literally. When you get the animals, there are certain aspects of trying to guide these animals and how that changes your perspective on a text. Like I said, I got the goats. And since I've been watching them, I was able to give my sons. I've had revelations. And I was able to pass this down to my son about how the goats began their behavior change once we brought the female goats in, right? We brought in the nanny goats, right, and mixed them with the billies. And then we start seeing how the billy goats begin to behave differently. So there's a lot of things that when you get into husbandry that begins to open your eyes up and allows you to truly understand what the text is trying to convey to you. And that's what our goal is at TCA, Torah Culture Assembly, is to make sure that we are having a practical application, a practical, functional understanding. Because if you're reading a text all day, that's great. But if you can't apply it to your life, it's really not doing you much good on a day-to-day basis, right? So we always talk about this kingdom building. And that's cool, right? But what are you building right here on earth that you're living in right now? So we want to make sure that we accomplish that goal and also strive for that kingdom to come, all right? So shout out to Atlanta Harvest. They are, of course, in Atlanta, or in the Dronesboro area, actually. And so I work with those brothers. And that's where I really began to get my firsthand contact with husbandry, with the agriculture. And it really changed me. And it really shaped me. And it's continued to shape me as I continue my fellowship with Atlanta Harvest. So make sure if you're in the Atlanta area, go ahead and support your people. So they have a farm there. They got grass-fed beef there. They got the lambs there in season right now. Of course, they got the crops there. Support your people. Support people who are actually doing real things versus just debating all the time. Let's get practical. Let's become functional. Let's do something other than debate all the time. And argue about scriptures that a lot of people really don't fully have a grasp on. Because they still operate in the Western line. So that's it for today. I am Moray Amir Ryder. And I will see you next time. Shalom. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.