How Innovative Grafting Technique can change the agriculture forever.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=90XUffl_tGc
Science & Technology
 Scientists have figured out the best and healthiest way to produce plants. It is a cutting-edge grafting technique that was enhanced over conventional procedures and published in a nature science magazine. Grafting is when you take the root of one plant and attach it to the shoot of another plant. People have been doing this for a long time to help apple and citrus trees grow better and stay healthy. But there was one type of plant that they thought they couldn't graft, they're called monocotyledons or monocot plants. That's a fancy name for plants like bananas, date palms, and grasses like wheat and oats. But a scientist named Julian Hibbard from the University of Cambridge and his team found a way to do it. They transplanted unique tissue from a plant's seeds onto two plants of the same species. The two plants grew together as one plant as a result of this. To ensure that the roots and stem were interconnected and could share food and water, they even utilized special lights. The new grafting method worked on a lot of different types of monocot plants, like bananas, pineapple, onions, and even tequila agave. The scientists also tried grafting a wheat plant to an oat plant, which could protect the wheat from getting sick. This new way of grafting could be especially helpful for a special type of banana called the Cavendish banana. Most of the bananas we eat are Cavendish bananas, but they can't grow from seeds. Farmers must continually reproduce the same plant because bananas are unable to bear children on their own. This uniformizes the bananas, which is undesirable because if one banana becomes ill, they could all become sick. A banana plant can be shielded against ailments like Panama disease by grafting a more resilient plant onto it. But if we graft the Cavendish bananas to healthy rootstocks, the bananas will be able to avoid getting Panama disease and stay healthy. That's all for today, guys. I hope you learned something new about innovative grafting technique and how it can help plants stay healthy. Don't forget to like and subscribe for more fun science videos.