Agrivi Developing Comprehensive Farm Management Software
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9bJuMHIyl0c
Science & Technology
 My name is Matija and I am founder and CEO of Agrivi. So we are young startup company in the architecture segment. We are building up the world's most powerful farm management software with the most complete feature set on the market and based completely on a knowledge base. So we are 18 months on the market and we have over 10,000 farmers from 150 countries that are using our product to improve their production. Our core features are tracking, planning, tracking and analyzing all farming activities so farmers can manage their crop production, completely track work hours of people, machinery hours, fuel being used, inputs that are used like fertilizers, pesticides. So tracking of all inputs that go into the production process, tracking finance expenses that are related to the crop production. So we can give him really create KPIs on the production. So varieties which is which is better. So this variety is better on that field, on this field, how much does it cost per kilogram. So to be able to understand cost effectiveness of entire production. What is the most complete feature set? What is the most complete feature set? We provide the most complete feature set. So usually other farm management software's are focused only on field activities. We provide really the complete feature set. We provide inventory management, we provide finance management, we have pest disease alarm detection in the system. So for every field we track weather conditions seven days advance, three year history. We do pattern recognition there to detect okay in the next seven days weather conditions are suitable for developing some disease on some field. We alert the farmer, we give him a recommendation okay you can protect your crop with these active substances. So we give complete solution to the farmer. What is the most complete feature set? Yeah okay so we're using several channels already and we are going directly we are using distributors. So dealers are one of our great partners because they do a lot of work with farmers already. And other channel partners actually that are in the business. We are working with cooperatives, with food processing industry as well that manage farmers. Yeah.