Growing corn in garden organically | How-2-Do It Guide Step By Step | Best Guide
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9bwkWrghsOI
Howto & Style
 Hello Friends, Today on my channel All Farming Ideas, I am going to tell you how to grow corn at your garden or at your home. So intently watch this video and if you found it useful then like it and comment as well. So Friends, Let's start our tutorial. Firstly, we make ourselves aware about the equipment required in this procedure. For this procedure we need a fork to till and break the soil to make it uniform. Hand gloves for safety of our hands. Spare to move soil, hand soil to dig soil, organic fertilizer, seeds and water. Now we start our procedure to soak corn. So for that first of all we have to dig the soil. And afterwards we have to put the seeds in water. By this the seeds will get proper moisture in them for sprouting. We have to put the seeds minimum 3 to 4 hours in water. Then we have to take the organic fertilizer made from cow buffalo or goat dung and we have to make a fine powder of it by breaking that with hands. If it has some stone pebbles or concrete then we have to remove that as well. Then we have to dig and mix the layers of soil to make it uniform. Soil and fertilizer. With the help of spade and fork. Then we have to mix our fertilizer with this soil. By hands we have to make a uniform composition of soil and fertilizer. If there are sand blocks or the fertilizer is in the form of pieces, we have to break them to make a fine powder. For sawing purpose we have to make an elevated rectangular plateau of height above 10 cm. In that plateau we have to sow the seeds to the depth of 1 inch at a distance of 15 to 20 cm from one another. After sawing we have to water it considerably and have to wait for 7 to 10 days. After 7 to 10 days we would be able to see the corn sprouts above the ground. Merit! Ahhh! Its depth of the theewspark is here? I shall NAI! Thank you! The ep에서도 water Gramscius is a powder that a drain. And whether the water will go around this water would be well as light or haya fuerte as goats areutedaly нос related conditions And then, while the water comes from MARCA's low. The water is on its ground with hot resting.