100% USEFUL | REMOVE CHEMICAL FROM VEGETABLES AND FRUITS | SADHGURU
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9eK_UQPw9_I
Education
 What works as a poison to one creature also works as a poison to another creature. What kills a bacteria also kills you in some way. If you put a little bit of vibhuti and turmeric and soak the vegetables, or you can put some neem, it has much better impact rather than running it with chlorinated water. The lack of micronutrients and psychological imbalances and lack of mental faculties developing are very, very directly connected, there's no other way. It takes a lot of effort and resources to make such videos, so please support us by watching the video till the end and share it with as many people as you can. In a place that supposedly produces the healthiest food for plant-based diet, is actually the cause of many of these severe chronic problems because the chemicals that are thrown into this production. Insecticide, fertilizer is a larger problem. One simple thing to say is, suppose you ate a California orange in 1920s, what micronutrients you got from that? Today, if you eat the same thing, you will have to eat eight oranges to get the same thing. That is the level of reduction that's happened. Because there are no micronutrients in the soil, we are artificially blowing them up like that. Something is coming out, but what is needed is not there. Lack of micronutrients and psychological imbalances and lack of mental faculties developing are very, very directly connected, there's no other way. Shifting our attention from problems to solutions is crucial. Sadhguru offers one such solution which we'll explore first, followed by an Ayurvedic remedy. Running water over vegetables is a good thing to do, but you're running chemically contaminated water. When I say chemically contaminated, I'm talking about chlorine that you're putting into it. I want you to understand this. The nature of life on this planet is such, what works as a poison to one creature, also works as a poison to another creature, maybe not to the same extent. What kills a bacteria also kills you in some way, because fifty-two percent of your body is bacteria. It also kills you in a certain way. Maybe you won't fall dead, but kills you. It's chemical warfare every day, both for those organisms in the water, and also the organisms in the body, and your own organism. You yourself are an organism. This is also being poisoned. So, the best way is not to run the tap water. If tap water is chlorine-free, yes, it's very good to do that. Otherwise, the better way to do it as we normally do in India is, if you put a little bit of vibhuti, the ash and turmeric, and soak the vegetables for, let's say, fifteen, twenty minutes, it has much better impact rather than running it with chlorinated water. If you don't have sacred ash, you can just put turmeric in it, and little salt and turmeric will do the job for you. Or you can put some neem. You can have some amount of neem leaf in your house. Every day you can use the same water. That is the beauty about neem. If you have a bucket where the bottom is full of neem leaves, every day you can put your vegetables into the same thing, and pick out your vegetables, and keep the water closed. It will work fine for you. If it's a metal container, it's best. If you have a copper container or a brass container, it's great. Otherwise, even a steel container will do, or glass is fine. Residual natural methods for cleaning fruits and vegetables offer safe and effective ways to remove harmful pesticides, ensuring cleaner food for you and your family. The CDC's Centre of Disease and Control estimates that each year, 48 million people get sick from foodborne diseases with 1,28,000 hospitalisation and 3,000 deaths. Approximately 2.2 million people are at risk due to exposure to agricultural pesticides. Pesticide poisoning has been a major issue in India since at least 1958. They are used to promote crops from insects, germs, rodents, but their residues are present in the food when it reaches the vendors or the grocery stores. Exposure to these residues can cause mental health problems such as autism, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, along with symptoms such as headache, blurred vision, vomiting and abdominal pain. To avoid these risks, it is important to improve how we clean fruits and vegetables. Let's look at a few of these cleaning techniques. First, soaking and washing the turmeric water Haridrajal turmeric. Known for its antibacterial and microbial properties, it is a renowned herb in Ayurveda. It is also considered an antidote for poisoning. Here's how to use turmeric water for cleaning. Prepare a solution of mixing 1 gram of turmeric powder with 1000 litres of lukewarm water. Place the fruits and vegetables in the turmeric water and let them soak for 15 minutes. Discard the turmeric water and rinse the produced with plain water 2-3 times to remove any residual turmeric. Soaking and washing with salt water, a readily available and cost-effective ingredient, possesses antibacterial properties. Follow these steps to clean your fruits and vegetables using salt water. Take half to 1 litre of water and add 5-10 grams of salt to it. Soak the fruits and vegetables in the salt water solution for about 10 minutes. Discard the salt water and rinse the produce thoroughly with running water. Method 3 is soaking and washing vegetables with baking soda. Baking soda with its alkaline nature has been proven to effectively remove 95% to 98% of chemicals from the produce. Here's how to use baking soda water for cleaning. Mix 4-5 grams of baking soda with 1 litre of water. Soak the fruits and vegetables in the baking soda water for about 10 minutes. Discard the solution and rinse the produce under tap water 2-3 times to remove any residual baking soda. Including apple cider vinegar can be used as an alternative option for cleaning vegetables and fruits. Mix vinegar and water in 1-4 ratio, vinegar to water. Soak the fruits and vegetables in the vinegar water solution for about 10 minutes. Rinse the produce with running tap water 3-4 times to remove any vinegar. To get free tips on food, health, Ayurveda lifestyle and yoga by Satguru, please join our WhatsApp and Telegram link below.