Fear from ongoing ICE raids impacting coastal farming communities | KTVU
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9fAoLGUAA18
News & Politics
 There could be leniency given to undocumented migrants working in the fields who help put food on the table. But many in that community are fearful that the next round of ice raids could target them or a family member. KTBU South Bay reporter Jesse Gary is live in Half Moon Bay with our story. Jesse. Christina, good evening to you. And it's that time of year, coastal towns such as Half Moon Bay turning their attention to tourists and vacationers. But for many people who work on farm fields not far from here, they're saying the current political climate is making them feel unsafe. Just out of view of Highway 1 traffic in Half Moon Bay, the people who help feed America are hard at work. For many, it is a work environment that is feeling increasingly hostile. We are all hardworking Latinos working these fields. And it's very sad for the children, for example, that perhaps they may have been born in this country. Their parents or family members might not be documented. The Trump administration's continued nationwide crackdown of undocumented migrants has led to arrests and uncertainty. Half Moon Bay officials say their partners report fewer people are accessing social services out of fear they could be targeted. Folks who normally attend, some of our nonprofit partners who seek assistance and services as far as food, child care, housing assistance. They've been, there's been a decline in attendance because there's fear of ICE or other immigration-related topics going to the different nonprofits. We are very aware of what's going on in our country right now. One of those nonprofits is Alas. Its managers say they're doing outreach five days a week in an attempt to keep the calm and increase awareness of what is and is not legal. We've been hosting several Know Your Rights trainings within our community, distributing the red Know Your Rights cards. Here at Alas, we have opened up a fund to be able to bring on a full-time immigration attorney and paralegal. President Donald Trump signaling an easing of strict immigration enforcement for farm and hotel workers. Our farmers are being hurt badly by, you know, they have very good workers. They've worked for them for 20 years. They, they're not citizens, but they've turned out to be, you know, great. And we're going to have to do something about that. We can't take farmers and take all their people and send them back because they don't have maybe what they're supposed to have, maybe not. For Felix Torres, who came into the country due to amnesty under President Reagan and is now living under President Trump, there is hope the ICE raids and the mood of the country will take a different approach. What we are asking for right now of the current president is to touch his heart, feel for our community that is hurting and put an end to these ICE raids and separation of these hardworking families. President Trump says there will be a policy statement about that coming in the coming days. People here say it can't come soon enough. We're live in Half Moon Bay this evening. Jesse Gary, KTVU, Fox 2 News. Christina, back to you across the mountains and across the bay. All right, Jesse, thank you for that live report.