Agrarian Lifestyle Was Foundational To Strong Families - Ranching Philosophy Part One
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9G49ukSl138
Pets & Animals
 Good evening from 369 Ranch. I'm going to do a little bit different sort of video tonight. A little off the cuff. Got a terrible, honestly, terrible text message yesterday. And I'll get to that. But it got me to thinking a lot about why we ranch. Why we raise dogs. Why we love dogs so much. Even when they chew on your pants. And, you know, it's been often said that dogs live in the moment. And they're a great reminder. Well, this news I got yesterday was that my brother that I wasn't terribly close to. Hadn't seen in a great many years. Passed away. And actually had passed away about a month beforehand. And I was just finding out now. And the reason I bring it up in this video isn't for sympathy or condolences. Although appreciated. It's just a reminder that we let so much time pass by. So much time go as human beings. Running from this task. To that task. To the next task. Forgetting to just live. Forgetting to be connected. And that's one great lesson that I always take from dogs. Especially these characters. This guy's a puppy. And growing fast. Hasn't seen a lot of the world. This girl's been on the planet for a number of years. Been with us for a long time. But one thing they always do. Is live each day. They play. They eat. They do their work. But they never forget that they're part of that pack. And the other aspect that it got me to thinking about. Was why we love ranching so much. Why my wife and I have decided that ranching. Needs to be part of our life. And it's not because it's easy. It's not because it simplifies our life right now. But a big piece of it for us. Is. Back in the agrarian days of existence. Life was very hard. But one thing that they did have going for them. Was the multi-generational family members. Within close proximity. And we've lost that. And you know. Both uncles. Aunts. My brother. My sister. Everybody is so spread out these days. That one thing we want for our family. And one reason that we ranch. Is we want our children. To stay as close as possible. I think the corporatism. And running from job to job. Has done a lot to destroy families. And we'd like to see that. And we'd like to see that repaired. There are many other reasons we like to ranch. We'd like to see good genetics maintained. And a purebred line of Anatolian shepherd. Dogs. Kelpies herding. Even this little scrap gatherer right here. We'd like to see that in our cattle that are going to come. We'd like to see that in our horses that are going to come. But honestly. When it all comes down to it. It's about leaving something. It's about leaving something behind. It's worth it having done in the first place. Are you quite finished? It's about work that matters. And I've had jobs that. If I had fallen dead before on the job. Never would have mattered. My hope. As soon as I settle this guy down. My hope is to leave something behind. Not just for my family. But for my community. For the planet. Something that matters. Take a little time out there. Somebody thinks that I'm the chew toy. Ranching for us. Family for us. Dogs. It's all about leaving something behind. Something that matters. Something that for generations to come. Will be used and appreciated. And that's why we value working dogs so much. In particular. Thank you for sitting in on a little ranching philosophy with us. Maybe one of many more to come. See you soon. Thanks for listening. Thanks for listening.