I Got Myself Into A Predicament!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9Kmx1laSIqY
People & Blogs
 I don't think I've walked up close to a bag yet for y'all. This is a grain bag. When it's completely full, it'll be 500 foot long and I'm not 100% sure on the specs on how much can fit in there. I mean, it's just a plastic bag. What's worse is when it gets a tear and it goes all the way down the bag, you have to grain back it. Or sometimes deer will hop up there and stomp holes in it. They'll have to go in there and duct tape it. But yeah, here's a bagger. I haven't been around it when they did a bag change. I have dumped into it. It's kind of nice. He just kicks it in neutral. And when you're dumping in there, obviously this auger is pushing grain into the bag. And the bag actually pushes the tractor and the whole implement forward. I don't know if y'all see that cone right there. I don't know how many feet it is from that end of the bag all the way to there. I believe it's 500. I could be wrong. So they set up a cone over there. And whoever's in the bagger turns on the PTO. And I'm sure does some more stuff. I'm not an expert on this. But the grain basically just pushes the bag. And then he basically steers and tries to get that tractor close to that cone to be straight. That way your bag is straight and not at an angle, if that makes sense. Also, when they get to that cone, they will stop and undo the bag because that means the bag is full. Right now it's probably... I would say it's halfway. How about the bag is halfway full right now? But yeah, that's my very unprofessional explanation of a bagger. Also today we are windrowing. At least for a little bit. This basically just raises my chopper out of the way. The straw will basically drop straight out there rather than going through the chopper. And I just put that in neutral so it doesn't spin. Also, when I said we were going to windrow, I'm going to windrow. And I'm going to windrow 13 acres. And then we'll go back to chopping and go back to normal. Y'all are also wondering why we're cutting on Saturday. We're actually moving and cutting for another farmer that just so happens to be the farmer's hired hand. So everyone has wheat around here. So for some Saturday fun, we're going to go cut some wheat. Everyone else is not at work, but Mom and I are. And Cody and John and Dad. So it's just the 4G harvesting crew today. So it's just the 4G harvesting crew today. So it's just the 4G harvesting crew today. Wholely. So Macdon has this handy dandy spot right around here. So we're going to take these cams. And this one turns out. So that's how he puts the ramp in. So there's kind of stuff that you want to see, you know it's like it's big total rocket actually. It's cool. I mean it's going to be cool. It's going to be cool. Alright. Alright, here we get everybody. It's going to be cool. Hey. Yep. Let's go on. Let's go home. It's awesome. Hey! Oh-herty. Sounds like my other James Bond Acton has this handy dandy spot right here that catches rocks. Can you see the rock? Yep. Okay. Okay. I think windrowing the straw behind a combine looks the best. Although when you come to the end and it's kind of at an angle, it really sucks. So when you come to the end, the windrow is at an angle, right? So let's just say it starts on that end of the header and then, you know, it'll end, you know, up here. So when you come to the end, you really have to watch one side of your header and not scoop up that windrow. Otherwise, you'll clog your feeder house. Huh. That is super weird. I just fell out of nothing. We're going to try to back up and see if it comes up right here. I have a feeling it's just going to keep on pushing, though. Yeah. Yeah, I have a feeling it's just описании. I don't know. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Come on. Next plan is to take the spout off and just back up. So right now we're taking the spout off. We're up high enough where he can pull forward and then we put the spout back on and then worry about this. Well, they got the spout off. Now there's enough clearance for him to pull up with the truck. Have y'all ever wondered how big this spout is? It's about belly button high from the ground. This thing is actually huge. It's getting high. Yeah. Okay. Now we gotta focus on this problem. I'm thinking how story pizza33. That's enough. Yeah. so i don't know if y'all can see right here but there's a little bit of a hole this is exactly waist high are y'all getting flashbacks from south texas that's not good or central texas like i i can't even go it's just all muddy or kansas having flashbacks of south texas right now because i am also i think that was the first time i've ever dumped on an 18-wheeler in the field also that was the farmer in the 18-wheeler before y'all yell at me in the comments saying why would we drive our trucks out in the field to dump a combine that was the farmer he did that himself it's his field he can do whatever he wants and that's what he did although we didn't know that we were going to fall into a hole right when we were dumping so he actually stopped and i stopped too and when i was backing up i backed back over the i guess weak spot in the ground and it just fell through so that's kind of what happened i went over it fine the first time and then i backed up and i fell back in anyways back to what i was saying before um it coming out on an angle this is what's really bad about a windrow see to get to this point to cut my header is going to be over here well it's going to be over the windrow so i have to pick up over the windrow and it's going to leave this corner higher and strong um see right now i can't suck up that windrow it'll plug my feeder house so i have to cut over the windrow well that just raises a straw and it leaves a big long triangle so that's one bad thing it will happen to be over here here for us like that anywhere else's some little is fun ok you can get to the windrow so Hudap and what all this town should pledge is to be a little better as in this country i know you're here and i think you know you've got a few brim so you're giving me too Connect i해야 itQué but not on the wrong-looking windshield! Do you need to go inside? Want to take that as a yeah? It's been a couple hours, so I'm going to stretch my legs and Deb is going to do his thing. Also, I got asked in the comments, I think yesterday, maybe the day before, I'm not sure, if we have quarter potties up here. The answer to your question is actually yes. They're just made out of rubber. Y'all see it? It's right here. I also have another one right here. Hold on. It gets better. Another one right here. No, no we do not have quarter potties out in the field. Okay. kommtieren morse слушa says in the Stadt Campaign Regal. So ... Do ... Do ... Do you know what? Wait. Come on. Do you know what I mean? This people are absolutely right. I did ... Put a little bit by a 번째 place that I was drawing to test my personal pattern. To then it looks when I was nehmen to rest the time case, and they're really good at it. See ya. wissen Today just went by super slow. I don't know. I don't know. That was the longest 121 acres of my entire life. My average speed was 3.2 miles an hour. So that was, let's just say it was slow going. That wheat was hailed on wheat and it still averaged 73 acres. So I think that's pretty good. There goes John. So tonight we're going to park in this field. We're not driving back to the other seven combines. We will service the combines here and then join everyone tomorrow. So tomorrow we'll be back to normal. But that's going to be it for today's video. Thank you all for watching and I will see you all tomorrow.