A Community Leaders Call to Action: The North Dakota Farmer's Market Opportunity
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9Mkl-2GVVWo
People & Blogs
 Sam Wagner, who is also our facilitator, you can see him on the screen most likely. So if you guys have any questions feel free to ask us any questions in the chat. Sam put some instructions just so we can kind of save some bandwidth. But welcome to Community Leaders Call to Action, an introductory workshop focusing on farmers market economics and impacts. So today, we're going to the main purpose of the workshop is to the this workshop calls upon community leaders to come together and learn how they can make how they may have a role with farmers markets in North Dakota introducing a new approach. Sorry, hold on. Slideshow is getting weird. To strengthen the community development function of farmers markets and equipping stakeholders with a course of action for the future. So today, our agenda is going to be, we have a pretty brief meeting. It's about two hours. We're going to have three different speakers. The first speaker is going to be Dr. Becca Jablonski from Colorado State University. Then we're going to have Simone way from Folkways speak a little bit about what she's done. And then lastly, Jonathan Mosier, who's a business market board member and owner of Forger Farms near Bismarck, talk a little bit more about some things that he's doing in his area. And then lastly, Quinn Renfant will be doing results dissemination of the survey that was done. And then we will have lastly, a closing. So the first speaker today is going to be our keynote, and that's Dr. Becca Jablonski. Dr. Becca Jablonski is an assistant professor in food systems extension economist at Colorado State University. Her research focuses on understanding processes of rural and regional development with an emphasis on identifying strategies to support entrepreneurship, improve agro business performance, and enhance regional food systems. She is particularly interested in assessing the food impact or the impacts of food system initiatives and strengthen rural urban linkages to farmers, supply chain participants, and rural slash regional economies. So without further ado, I will take my stuff off screen share. Becca, if you have a presentation, we can make you the person sharing the screen right now and then you can start. So, thank you so much for joining us today. Excellent. Good morning, everybody. So thanks so much to Quinn for inviting me to talk to all of you today. This presentation actually is going to be somewhat similar to one that I gave last week at the Intense Conference, which is a fantastic name, which is the National Farmers Market Coalition meeting. So, to really try to help farmers markets, and this was specifically for managers think about evaluating the impacts of their work. And so for today I've changed it a little bit to think a little more critically about, you know, what are the things we know about some of the economic impacts of farmers markets? How much you think about evaluating the impacts of farmers markets? And how might you as elected officials or planners or economic developers think that, you know, what are what are some of the rationale to thinking that it may or may not make sense for you to try to either implement or augment farmers markets in North Dakota? So please feel free to stop me and ask any questions as we're going along here. And also just want to apologize in advance. This is spring break at Colorado State University, and I'm on vacation with extended family. And so if you hear screaming children in the background or anything like that, that's probably just me. Okay, so with that, we'll take it away. So today we're going to focus on three aspects of farmers markets and thinking about impacts. So one is, you know, what do we know about the farm and ranch impacts of markets, right? Especially if one of the rationales for implementing farmers markets is to try to create new market opportunities or expanded opportunities for farmers and ranchers. The second thing we'll talk about is regional economic impacts. So what do we know about some of those sort of short term economic or you can think about it as GDP impacts of farmers markets. And then finally, we'll talk about some of these broader community what we call wealth impacts, right? So these are things that maybe are both tangible and intangible, right? So some things around social capital, right? Other things that kind of make communities good places to live, places people want to move to, but maybe harder to measure at different points. And I just want to say before I start with the farm and ranch impacts that there is some research and a lot of discussion about other impacts of farmers markets. They could be food access or food security impacts or health impacts, but I'm not going to talk about any of those because I'm an agricultural economist. So those really are not my area of expertise, but there is information out there. And I'm guessing that you may be having some of those conversations internally anyway. So let's start with the farm and ranch impacts. And what do we know? So this is separate from farmers markets, right? Things that we want to just think about and keep in mind that you may or may not already know. Right. The first thing is that we have really strong evidence from U.S. Department of Agriculture data nationally that profit margin increases with farm size. Right. And so you can see if you look on the left hand side of this figure that we have, especially for the really small folks. So these are under one hundred and fifty thousand dollars in gross cash farm income. When we look at retirement off farm occupation and low sales, you know, we see that between 63 and 83 percent of them are in this sort of high risk level for their operating profit margin, which really means that if there's some kind of disaster that happens or if they're not eligible for crop insurance, which sometimes these small folks don't are less likely to have crop insurance, they really could sort of put them under. And then even when we get to sort of the mid scale, right, which is the moderate sales would be one hundred and fifty to three hundred and fifty thousand or mid size would be three fifty to a million. Right. We still see that there are larger shares of those operations relative to large or very large operations that are in that high risk level. And part of the reason for this is that we know that the cost of production decreases as producers get larger. So I'm showing you this for U.S. dairy farmers. Right. And you can see on the left side on the left hand bar, we're seeing that that's for dairy farms that have less than 50 cows. And then we go up to over a thousand cows. And so you can see that those costs of production decrease. And so, you know, what that really tells us is that those farms that are small need to be able to earn more revenue. Right. Per unit of sales. I mean, excuse me, per operating costs. Right. So they're really trying to think about how do they get higher value for what they're doing? And you can think that in this moment in time, as I'm sure you're seeing or hearing in the news that we see that fertilizer costs are going up at all of our input costs, labor costs are going up. I can tell you in Colorado we just implemented a new ag labor bill that all of those costs are going up, that that is going to have a disproportionate impact on small producers likely. So this is kind of a conceptual diagram that about how we think about what markets might work better for some farms compared to others. And so if you look at this bottom right quadrant. Right. This is for farms that can operate based on economies of scale. They're producing high value and high volume, excuse me. So high volume and low value of sales. And it's fine for them to have low value of sales because they have lower costs of production. Right. So they're just competing based on those economies of scales. The challenge for some of these commodity oriented producers comes when they're not the most efficient producers. They can't produce that really high volume, but they're also not adding value. And I see, for example, that we have a number of wheat farmers in our state that are in that that category, and they end up in this place that we call the trouble zone. Right, where they both have low sales volume and low value per unit of sales. So farmers markets are often really effective outlets for those operations that are very small, are just getting started. Right. They're in this this category here where they're producing small scale, but they need to be able to get that higher value return for their product. And so that's why they're here. And that a lot of times what happens is that once markets scale up or once the operations in those markets can get larger and they're successful there, then they can sort of graduate into these value food chains where they're not just selling direct to consumers, but they're also selling to restaurants or institutions. And they can sort of do that trade off where they're producing slightly higher volume, but also a little bit less value, but not. But they're adding value relative to these commodity folks. So this is kind of the conceptual framework off of which we're working. Now, of course, there are some direct markets that do actually allow producers to sell larger volume. Probably the best example of that are the farmers markets in the New York City area. But I would imagine a place like North Dakota and actually similar to a place like Colorado, with a few exceptions of our markets, that you're probably still in that smaller volume category. And one of the reasons that we know that these markets do work better for these small operations that need to get high value is that we see that there is well documented evidence of consumer willingness to pay a premium for local food. And this is from a congressionally mandated study that came out by U.S. Department of Agriculture several years ago now. And there have actually been other studies since that show that there is a wide range of premiums. And of course, it also depends on are there certifications attached to it? Where is the market? But we do see overall that there is significant willingness to pay a premium. So one of the things that we've done, it was actually started in New York and then we've done it in Colorado as well, something called a market channel assessment. And this is really important to understand the profitability impacts of sales through farmers markets, for example, because if you think about the U.S. Department of Agriculture data that we have, it's traditionally by commodity. So for example, we have really good information for dairy farms or for corn or soy operations, right, where they're essentially producing one or two or three crops, but all going through commodity oriented channels for diversified operations for specialty crop operations and for operations that are selling through these like local food outlets. So we've got our product and we have very good systems. So we've got to see a lot of those in the market market. So again, they tend to be much more diversified and there tends to be a much bigger differences across profitability by market channel. And as I said, we really don't have this well documented at the national level. So we've gone and actually collected data from producers to really understand not just their sales by market channel, which we usually producers are collecting, but also those costs of production by market channel and those marketing costs by market channel. And just to tell you, so we did this with 50 operations across the state of Colorado in 2016 and 2017 through a U.S. Department of Agriculture grant. These are really, really data intensive procedures. And so we were only able to do it with 50 specialty crop producers just across a range of scales from really small operations to those with large H-2A labor crews. And just to give you a couple of these highlights here, and I'll give you the website. So if you want to dig in deeper, you can. On the left here, we're looking at all direct market channels. Then we divide it by CSA, Community Supported Agriculture Operations. I'm guessing many of you familiar with what this is, but this is where the farm sells a share of the harvest each week. And then we have farmer's market sales and farm stand sales. And what we're looking at here is the top 75th percentile. And here we're looking at the bottom 25th percentile, and this orange bar is the median. And so one of the things you'll notice right off the bat is that for farmer's markets and farm stands, we have really wide variability in performance. And so one of the things that I think this is useful to help us understand is that we have some operations here, right, that are really performing well when we look at their marketing profit margin. And so one of the things you might do if you're thinking about farmer's markets as a strategy to support farm and ranch viability, is really thinking about what are the folks that are performing here doing differently. And as an example, one of the things that they're thinking about is about those labor costs. And I'll talk a little bit more about that in a second, that labor is the most significant variable expense that goes into these channels. The other thing we know is that for these folks, the market's not working, right? These folks are actually losing money because we're not incorporating all of their variable expenses. And so, you know, this either may not be the right channel for those operations and thinking a little bit more about who's in that bucket, or thinking about how do we actually work to improve them to make them look more like those yellow bars. And then here, what we're looking at is sales per labor hour. And so what you can see for farmer's markets is we don't have quite the distribution that we had previously. But we see that there is still significant differences between our top and bottom performers. So we see that our top performers have a sales per labor hour of $47.32, whereas the bottom folks are at just under $13. So these folks are, again, probably losing money. And these folks are really doing pretty well. So if you're interested in learning more about this, and it's something as you see more market development in North Dakota, that you might consider doing something like this. Again, if one of your goals is really finding these opportunities to support farmers and ranchers. So we saw with that report that I mentioned to you that was congressionally mandated, we saw this interesting thing through that process. We saw that farms with local food sales were more likely to survive. And here we're dividing survivability as they existed in the 2007 and 2012 censuses. And they were profitable in both of those years. But we see that they grew less than operations that did not have local food operations, or it did not have local food sales. And we looked at this across beginning farmer status, as well as across a sales class. And it's pretty much always true. And so, you know, this interesting finding came out. And so it made my colleagues and I wanted to dig into that a little bit more, right? What was really going on here? And can we learn more about sort of what's happening about the financial performance implications of these local food markets? So we have a website, localfoodeconomics.com that we have developed jointly with a bunch of different partners. And we co-hosted with e-extension, and it's been supported by the US Department of Agriculture. I'm just going to provide you a couple quick highlights today. But I encourage you to go and take a look here if you're interested, because we've tried to create these fact sheets. Now, please note that for most of this, most of this research, we're using data from the USDA arms, it's called the Agricultural Resource Management Survey. So this is a survey that added questions around local food starting in 2008. And it's the best source of farm financial data that we have nationally. However, it's congressionally mandated to focus in the core agricultural states, of which North Dakota is not one, nor is Colorado. And so as a result, it makes it difficult to break out the data by a state in a lot of these cases. So what you're going to see really that I'm going to show you today is based on national averages. I'm just going to peek at the chat box in case somebody's asking a question. Yes. So to Jonathan's point, you are absolutely correct that for when we do these market channel assessments, we do not include production costs. So you can see in the left hand corners here, this is how we calculate these marketing profit margins. The reason that we don't include production costs is the assumption that it basically takes the same amount of variable costs and labor to produce broccoli. Just I'm giving an example of broccoli. But where things start to change is when you actually harvest the product. And so we start with harvest. And just to give you an example, from talking to some larger fruit and vegetable growers recently in Colorado, some of them have mentioned that they've stopped producing radishes. And the reason is that you have to not only just harvest the ravages, but then you have to put them in bunches and you have to do them in twist ties, right? I mean, that's how a store like Whole Foods, for example, wants to purchase them. And that that takes a significant amount of labor, right? Or same thing if you think about berries, right? You could have a pick your own raspberry operation that would have significantly different variable expenses, especially labor, compared to if you had to send a labor crew out there and they're picking them and putting them in clamshells. So we start with the harvest and we only include those variable costs that we see are most significantly different based on some of the previous research that came out of Cornell University. And really, that has to do with the marketing labor and travel costs. So let me know if Jonathan, you have other questions on that. Okay, so returning to the national data and fact sheets. One of the things that we see that I think is really interesting and important across this now, actually, Jonathan is looking at all of these variable expenses. It's not divided by production and marketing expenses, just what we have on average, because we don't have additional information to understand what is what within that USDA arms data. So here we have all of the local food producers divided by scale. So you can see 1,000 to 75,000, 75,000 to 350, 350 to a million and a million and higher. And I just want you to focus on the green bar here. What you see is that as these operations get larger, they devote a significantly larger share of their total variable expenses to labor. So you can see that goes up to 35% of total variable expenses when these operations have a million dollars or more in gross cash farm income. So essentially, they're doing the exact opposite of what conventional agriculture is doing, right? Conventional agriculture, as they get bigger, they buy more tractors, right? And they mechanize more. And so understanding that there are these important differences for local food operations, I think is really important. And we'll come back to this later when we think about the implications for regional economic development. But one of the things we've been really curious about is, does this additional reliance on labor impede profitability? And I'll show you some information there in a second. But I would keep this in mind, especially as we have severe labor shortages right now, and challenges in the space and what that means. And thinking about that within a local context is really important. So here, one of the things we looked at is gross cash farm income per acre. So this is a gross measure by market channel. And I'm going to focus really on the left hand side here, which is direct to consumer only channels. So these are the channels that were in that top left quadrant when I showed you before, when we looked at the trade-offs between value and volume. So what you're seeing is that for these really small folks, right, that they are, their gross cash farm income is, you know, about $1,000 per acre. We get closer to three or four when we're in this small scale category, 75 to 350. We move to mid-scale, we're at 5,000. And then we're over a million dollars. We're at almost $20,000 for gross cash farm income per acre, right? So these are producers probably that are figuring out how to do some kind of high tunnels or season extension, right? They're really trying to maximize value per acre. And here, I'm looking at not by scale, but by channel. And I'm looking specifically at farmers markets, and I'm looking at net farm income. And we see that on average, we're netting about $2,000 in our sample. Another thing we've done is to look at profitability, right? Because as I mentioned, we're really interested to see if this reliance on labor, you know, is means that these markets are not really very profitable. And sort of the big picture takeaway is that actually we see that about half of all operations that are selling through local food channels are at least break-even. You're not seeing this quartile three for any of these channels because they're break-even, right? So they're basically, they're not profitable, but they're not losing money. And given that many of them have off-farm income, you know, that that's probably pretty good. And that we see that over 25% of these producers are actually looking really good and very profitable, right? This is actually a pretty impressive return on assets. And one thing for folks that maybe are not, don't work in agriculture, this may sound sort of dismal, but actually, if you look at conventional agriculture, it looks worse than this, especially if we then divide this by scale, right? That this seems to be important for these smaller scale operations. I'm not showing it to you here, but if you go to that localfoodeconomics.com website, you can see the same information broken out by scale in a bunch of ways. And we see that that this statistic where we have at least half of operations are break-even and a quarter really profitable is true across all of those different scale categories. And then this is another way of looking at profitability, which is operating profit margin. What we looked at earlier in that slide, that one of those first slides I showed you, where we were just looking at local food operations. And so here, what we're seeing is that about 76% of all of farmers market vendors are farmer vendors are in this red zone, right? But we see 16% that are doing really well, 8% that are the medium risk level. But just keep in mind that disproportionately, we have a lot of these small operations that are selling through these farmers markets. So I'm going to stop there with the farm profitability impacts. Does anyone have a question before we go on to regional economic impacts? Yeah, Becca, I have a question. Please. So this is Jonathan. I was just wondering, do those profit numbers include the salary for the farmer, or is that salary calculated separately as a part of the cost of production? So it depends on how the producer pays themselves, which to some extent can depend on the structure of the operation. But to the extent that the producer is drawing a salary from the operation, it would include that information. Meaning that if they are drawing a salary, it would come out of the variable costs included in like the labor costs? Yes. Okay. All right. I was just checking because it does very much vary. I mean, when we talk about profitability, you can say, oh, well, my farm made, you know, $40,000, but technically, you know, all 40 of that was salary for me. So did it make any money then? I don't know. That's just an example, of course. It's, it's really a great point. And it's a very difficult thing within arms that they try to capture. And as I mentioned, you know, it really depends on partially the structure of the operation. But with the market channel assessments, that's why even for those producers that were not paying themselves, we required them to provide us an hourly rate. And then we fact we essentially calculated in based on that rate and the number of hours that they were working. So we have some other measures that we try to use within arms to back that out where it's not explicitly given. But it depends is unfortunately the answer. Okay, anyone else before we move on? Okay, so let's move on to these regional economic impacts. So the first thing I want to mention is that as we talked about, right, that the share of variable expenses devoted to labor increases as these operations get larger. So because of that, you might see these trade offs, right, we might expect to see trade offs between profitability and economic impact, right, because one of the ways that we'd see positive economic impact is based on the ability to generate local employment. And indeed, what we actually do see when we look at trying to calculate a wage rate for these local food operations on average, we see that they have higher average average wage rates, you can see over $23 an hour, relative to under $20 an hour for these non local operations. So that is one potential benefit of local food from an economic impact perspective. Several years ago, the USDA Ag Marketing Service pulled together a team of agricultural economists, because there was frustration that there wasn't an agreed upon methodology for how to look at the economic impacts of local and regional food systems. And so our team came together, and we ended up putting together this toolkit that you can find on this website, local food economics.com. So just to make sure we're all on the same page here. Now, one of the things that we can look at is growth, right, where we're looking at change over a period of time. And this is generally what we think about when we talk about economic impacts. It's a relatively easy thing to measure. When we look at something like a measure like GDP, right, gross domestic product, this is all about growth. The challenge with a measure like growth is that all of that growth can be concentrated in a single firm. It doesn't tell you about the distribution. And so in contrast, as I go and talk to groups around the country, even though they sometimes frame what they want to understand in terms of growth, really what they're much more interested in is economic development, right, which is really about some kind of improvement relative to some starting condition. So here we're going to talk about economic impact, which is a growth measure. And then when I talk about wealth, I think we're really talking more about a development measure. And so we'll do both of those and go through them. I just want to make sure that that's clear for everybody. Okay. Okay. So when we talk about impact, which is what I'm going to do here, what we're talking about is if there's some kind of shock that occurs in an economy. And generally, this is measured as an economic multiplier. And that shock can be positive or negative. So in our case, we're going to talk about what is the impact if we put in a new farmer's market, right? What could we think of as the benefit there? But you can also think about a negative shock, like there's some kind of natural disaster. And so I just want to make sure that you're aware that it could be positive or negative. And then we measure what we call the multiplier. What we're trying to understand is that because of that shock, we think that the economy is going to end up at a new equilibrium state. And we want to understand what that is. And so basically, we're going to calculate this ripple effect, both in terms of additional jobs, right? As well as we're going to think about what is the impact to other sectors in the economy. And just to say that those sectors that are impacted are not just going to be in the case of a farmer's market, a farming sector, right? They're also going to be the places where employees, for example, spend their money. So in things like childcare and grocery store sales, right? And I'll just give you an example here. So let's imagine that you all get a farmer's market promotion program grant, which I believe is exactly what you got and how I'm here today. So you get a farmer's market promotion program grant that gives you some money to invest in the farmer's market sector in your state, right? The amount of money, let's just say that you got $100,000 that goes to that farmer's market is the direct effect when we calculate the multiplier, right? So that's easy because you know exactly what it is. And importantly, this is money that's coming from outside of North Dakota, and it's coming in and being spent in North Dakota. So it's money that you did not have, but for that grant. Then what happens is because you are stimulating this farmer's market sector with this money coming from the federal government in this case, you are in turn supporting producers, right? And producers are going to have to purchase more inputs in order to produce their outputs, right? So they're going to spend money on things like processing equipment, right? Or they're going to spend money on bottles, or they're going to spend money on purchasing cows, or they're going to spend money on trucks and fuel, and they're going to spend money on energy and all of those kinds of things. And all of those together are the indirect effects. And importantly, those indirect effects aren't just the things that the producer spends money on. But in turn, the company that produces those bottles or the milk processing facility, the dairy processing facility that's co-packing for that farmer has to purchase more inputs. Only those inputs that are purchased from the local economy, which in this case could be North Dakota, or it could be a smaller region, are included in that multiplier effect. So what happens is, to the extent that that producer has to purchase bottles, if those bottles are not purchased within the state of North Dakota, if that's your local region, then that is considered leakage, and that money leaves and the multiplier effect essentially stops. In addition, because you have this stimulus that's coming to support farmers markets, you also have the markets themselves that are hiring managers, you have the producers that are hiring more employees, you have utility companies that are hiring more employees. And then in turn, those employees are spending money in the local economy on groceries and in childcare and utilities and on rent and right all of these other kinds of things. And in turn, the grocery store is purchasing more inputs locally, etc, etc, right. And you can see how the multiplier in that web gets much more complex. And those are called the induced effects. And so when we calculate the total value of the local economic impact or the multiplier, what we're doing is adding up the direct plus the indirect plus the induced effect. And so you can see that the more businesses that you have within the state of North Dakota, or the more places that your producers and the other input providers can purchase other local products, the stronger the multiplier will be. And so what we see, and there have been a number of studies that came out, both prior to the development of this report, as well as subsequently, using this kind of methodology that we talk about here, what we see is that the overall economic impact of farmers markets, when measured, remember, just from this sort of impact, like growth perspective, we find small, excuse me, but positive short term economic impacts. And importantly, one of the things, oh, let me say one other thing before I get there. So as an example, I worked with a team to conduct an economic impact assessment of the green markets, right. So this is probably the largest farmers market network in the country. And what we see is that for every dollar of sales generated at the green markets, there's an additional 61% of the economic activity that contributes to the regional economy. So generally speaking, sometimes we see these economic impact assessments that say, oh, if we put a dollar in here that we're going to see a 10 fold impact. Well, don't believe any of that, those studies are bunk, right? Generally speaking, you aren't going to see a multiplier that's larger than two. So just something to keep in mind. But one of the things that's really important, and one of the reasons we see that small but positive impact is that in that report, we talk about the importance of calculating the net impact. So as an example, and this was a study that came out a number of years ago from the USDA ad marketing service, but I haven't seen it replicated. And I think it's really interesting. If you put a new farmers market in in one of these red zones, and importantly, there were no red zones in North Dakota at the time of the study. But if you put another farmers market in, in where the red zones are, these are areas where you already have really high levels of competition for farmers market vendors, right? So essentially, you don't have enough producers in those areas. So what happens is, generally, the farmer might pull out of one market and go to another market. And that really limits the benefit of putting in that other market from a farm profitability or economic impact perspective, because you may not be increasing the overall sales, right? You're just taking the sales from one market and moving them to another market. The place where you may be more likely to have larger positive impacts and less sort of that negative opportunity cost, right, or countervailing effects is where you have, you don't have enough markets, right? You have producers that are looking for additional sales opportunities, or they're looking to grow. And so that's something you really want to think about when you're thinking about the impact. The other thing is, we know that farmers markets are concentrated in more urban areas, and that urban areas have are more likely to have greater volume of sales at those markets. And so really thinking about right sizing those markets, and what's going to make sense in a particular place is really important. So just to say that if you are interested in thinking more about the impact of your markets in your state, we did develop with USDA funding this local food impact calculator. So I encourage you to go and use that it's free. If you have any questions about it, please let me know. But we have tried to provide good documentation there. The other thing about these rural markets that I'd like you to think about is that as more of these programs are becoming available through the federal government, and sometimes state governments have them available as well, where they have double up food bucks. So this is where you might have people who are getting SNAP benefits, those supplemental nutrition assistance programs, food stamps is what they used to be called benefits. And because the government is trying to encourage people who are using these SNAP benefits to purchase healthy local food, they provide funding to essentially double those dollars. And so where you have places that are more rural markets, it may be beneficial to have some of these double up programs, because you may be able to get to a higher level of gross sales that actually supports more positive farm profitability, it's more likely to make that market viable, and in turn has more positive economic impacts in that community. So again, something to think about. And we're actually in the process of building a specific calculator for these double up food buck programs. So evaluating these long term economic impacts or evaluating the long term economic impacts are likely more difficult than what I was just showing you for some of these short term impacts. But I think that based on the literature we've seen, it's really where some of the more important impacts of farmers markets likely lie. So you're thinking about farmers markets as business incubators, we're thinking about the fact that farmers markets help to generate and circulate knowledge, right? They provide farmers, vendors much more direct contact with producers, excuse me, with consumers. And so even if they don't have those the huge sales, they're getting ideas, right, that might stimulate them to be profitable in the future. And they're also gaining skills and business experience, right? And all of those things are important, but again, more difficult to measure. So thinking about measuring those, we're going to turn then to the wealth impacts, right? So this is much more on the sort of community development space. And we think about wealth creation, right? One of the things that we understand is that these healthy, sustainable communities depend on investment in a broad range of capital assets. And so only thinking about those financial measures is short-sighted. So just to give you an example, again, from the study of the farmers markets in New York City that I was part of, we asked of consumers at these markets, how often did they actually go and tell producers about ideas for products that they had? New ideas, it could be new products, new varieties, new value-added products. And then we asked producers, when you got these ideas, did you actually do anything with them? And what we actually ended up seeing is that 75% of the farms made or intend to make changes to their farm business based on the ideas they got from consumers at the markets. 45% of these farms made changes to products sold in both rural and urban markets, right? Because one of the things we really wanted to understand is we know these vendors are coming from, I think it's an eight-state region in New York City, for example, right? They're coming from rural places, they're selling into urban ones. We know that a lot of that economic impact stays in the urban place, but what do we know about what are the benefits that actually come back to rural places? And also 82% reported they shared ideas that they got, these producers shared these ideas with producers in their home communities. So it wasn't just benefiting the producers that were selling at the market, but also their neighbors, right? And partially probably because of the social capital that exists or the cultural capital in these places. We also looked at human capital. So this would be things around education and skills. And this is not causation at all, it's just correlation, but we found that the stocks of human capital were significantly higher in counties where we had farmers that were selling into these farmers markets in New York City, which we thought was really interesting. And so we're trying to do a bunch more work in this space. We have a recent article that was just published where we looked at measuring stocks of community wealth and their association with food systems efforts in rural and urban places. And what we found is that there's actually this very strong association with wealth and having direct-to-market sales. Now, again, we can't say anything about a causal relationship, but it is interesting and we're trying to tease that out more. So the last thing I wanted to say before I open it up to questions is that the pandemic, of course, has changed everything, right? And all of the information that I provided you is really based on pre-pandemic conditions because there's a data lag, although we're looking forward to seeing the new data. And so with funding from the USDA Ag Marketing Service, we've been leading a project, Colorado State University and the University of Kentucky, looking at local and regional food systems response to COVID. And here we've looked, we've partnered with these 17 communities practice, including the National Farmers Market Coalition, to really understand what were the challenges or innovations that were happening in response to COVID specific to local and regional food. And as part of this, we did a national consumer survey of representative households. And we asked questions about their purchasing behavior in three different time periods. So September, 2019, April, 2020, and September, 2020. So we think of September, 2019 is the before times, right? Everybody's fun and they're doing all these, having a great time. And then April, 2020, the pandemic really begins and everything's closed down. And then September, 2020, we have this sort of start of the new normal, right? Everyone's masked up in many places. But, and part of what we were trying to understand is that we could see that maybe behavior would shift in terms of what people were purchasing and where they were purchasing it in April. But we wanted to see if those trends continued into September, because maybe that, maybe that means that these are behaviors that are more likely to continue post pandemic. And of course, farmers that sell through these local food markets were trying to understand where to make investments, right? That we're going to be not just supporting the short term, but also going to help them in the long term, particularly because there was so much federal money available. So one of the questions we asked was, did you buy from a new channel during the pandemic? And indeed, we found that only 3% of people said that they purchased through farmers markets for the first time. But interestingly, 3% would represent about 36 million households, assuming a representative sample. And so, you know, this is not an insignificant share of the population. And we have 3% that tried a farmer's market, but we have 35% that tried at least new, one new outlet, right? So this, this may reflect the fact that we do have some new people that are trying a new household that are trying markets for the first time. And then I think really interestingly, we asked about the persistence of these markets right across the two time periods that I mentioned, the April and September 2020. And we found that about 30% of people who had tried farmers markets for the first time were continuing to use those markets in the later period, right? And so that may signal this sort of longer term shift in, in where people are purchasing products. The other thing is that, as I'm sure you've all seen, we see this tremendous growth in online shopping, which is across all market channels, farmers markets and direct from producers, for example, increased from about a third prior to the pandemic in September 2019 to almost half in September 2020, right? So I think that this is going to be a place that we continue to see growth moving forward. So with that, I'm going to stop, but I'm happy to answer questions with the caveat that I should say that I do have a hard stop here at nine o'clock. So feel free if folks want to just vocalize your questions or put them in the chat for Becca. Feel free to do that. Hey, Becca, it's Quinn here. One thing I would like to ask or have you spotlight a little bit more on was the multiplier effect, and how you had said that, typically, we don't see anything above the two range and that anything else that we have heard or have come across would be incorrect. Can you tell me a little bit more about that, I guess, or just touch on that a little bit? Yeah, good question. So a couple things. You know, one is that we see that sometimes when people calculate these multipliers, they double count things, right? And so making sure you don't double count is really important. One challenge is that there is sort of the leader in calculating these multipliers as a company called Implan that also aggregates data from a bunch of different federal sources. But it's sort of a black box, and people can easily misuse it, right? It's very easy to use. And so just to keep in mind that there are these studies that come out that aren't good. The other thing is that a lot of times people calculate the gross effect and not the net effect. And that is really just inaccurate, right? Or they think about things like if you're building a new building, they add in the construction costs without the caveat that that's going to be a very short-term effect that's going to leave, right? Those construction costs happen at one point in time, they're not going to be continuing over the lifetime of a project. So I think that's what you want to think about and really trying to tease that out. There are some times where multipliers can be a little bit over two. The other thing about multipliers is that multipliers are going to be larger in more urban places, or based on they're going to be larger if you define a region as larger. And if you think about this, it's because there's more places to buy those inputs in larger economies. And so we don't ever want to use the multiplier as saying it's not a feasibility study, right? So we don't want to say, well, if we put it here, we're going to have the highest multiplier effect. I don't think that's the way we should think about it at all, especially, and I'm guessing this is true since you're all in North Dakota, is that we want to stimulate economies in rural places. And so that's why just thinking about that economic impact, I don't think is what most communities are really trying to think about. They're also trying to think about the distributional effects of these different types of programs or investment. Does that help, Quinn? Yes, absolutely. And the reason I want to touch on that was from a marketing standpoint, that particular argument gets used as the whole buy local caveat. And I think although there are effects and we can talk about it, it's just such a vague way of looking at things like you're saying that I don't think it's a good marketing technique per se or good marketing practice. Yeah, but I think another way to think about it is that if you invest in farmers markets, you can't just invest in farmers markets, right? You want to make sure that you have producers that have access to credit and access to infrastructure they need. Like I gave the example of a dairy farm, right, that's doing processing. Most dairy farmers are not going to want to invest in on-farm processing. So do you actually have places that will do co-packing for them? Do you have regulations that make sense? And if you can think about then building up this sort of regional economy where you have other businesses that are developing to provide some of those inputs, you may have these win-wins, right? You could reduce variable costs, increase efficiency of production, increase the variety of products and the year-round nature of these products. So I think it's that we can't think of making these like one-time investments in a one particular place and that that's going to be a magic bullet, right, or a silver bullet. We have to think about sort of the whole system. And I think that's important. And just to give you another quick example about this, you know, so I worked in upstate New York for a lot of years and in Rochester, New York was where Kodak was. And so, you know, they had developed this whole sort of, I'm going to say the wrong word. It's going to be embarrassing because I'm being recorded, but the optics industry, I think it's called the optics industry. Somebody can correct me here, right, had developed based on this. And so when they went out, right, that whole support sector and the inputs actually survived because they had built this whole web and ecosystem around it. And I think that's really what we're talking about when we talk about supporting local farm or, you know, local farm and food economies. It also does not mean that all of the food needs to be sold locally, right, especially in North Dakota, where you are probably going to have more producers than you have consumers. That you're trying to think about that some of those products are going to be sold in the state and you're going to support people through that way. But you're also going to develop an export economy. And that's important, too. But having those input providers and the diversity of the ag sector is still really important. I think there was a question from Jonathan, Becca, in the chat. It says, and how does that compare to, it was kind of a follow-up, and how does that compare to the other ways of stimulating the economy? So kind of comparing what you were talking before to other ways of stimulating the economy. Yeah, and again, a good question. So agriculture tends not to have the highest multiplier impacts. But that being said, you know, I think one of the things you want to think about are what are the other opportunities, right? And it's generally not a this or that. I mean, it is in terms of some of the state investment, right, that there's going to be a limited amount of state money, stimulus money that's available. But it's generally not a this or that, right? It's generally not going to be something easy where you're going to get like a big manufacturing facility in some rural part of the state. And those tend to have the higher multiplier impacts. But so I think it's really thinking about what is the comparative advantage of the place that you're trying to support. And I think in a lot of places that there are a significant number of opportunities around ag and food systems development that are often overlooked. And I think partially because we were trying to get away at the national level from thinking about rural development as ag development, which I get. And I think that's really important, right? We don't want to think of rural is not just agriculture, right? It's all of these other things. And in fact, in most places in the country, rural isn't agriculture anymore. That's less true, obviously, in a state like North Dakota. So I think it's really about thinking about what are the assets you have and how do you really take advantage of those assets? There's another question from Jonathan asking about going back to the slide of gross sales per acre. There you go. And as I said, I have this information. We have a lot more of it broken out on that localfoodeconomics.com website. Great. I'll check it out. Yeah. And I mean, showing this information, like not divided by commodity, for example, is misleading. You know, I was going to say as a vegetable producer, my, you know, direct to consumer or even the, basically, I'm probably somewhere between the first two categories. But my, you know, I'm only producing on about an acre and a half. And so my, you know, my gross cash farm income per acre is a lot higher than those numbers. Yeah. And so we have this broken out by commodity in some places or in the journal articles. We haven't, we haven't put everything into fact sheets and then we could absolutely do that. So these would just be for fruit and vegetable growers. Again, they're for Colorado. But yeah. So, you know, thinking about this, this includes, you know, dry land wheat operations, which are going to be very different. Although interestingly, in the arms data that I'm mentioning to you, the place where we have the most, the most number of local food operations is actually in, in livestock and not in fruit and vegetable, which I think is different than what most people might think. Why do you think that is? I think it's, it's easy, relatively easy for a livestock operation to have some portion of their sales that's sold through like freezer beef, right? They're going to a custom exempt processor and they're selling some to their neighbors and that's local food. You know, whereas, at least in my experience, fruit and vegetable operation may make more of an overall operation choice to sell through local food markets versus selling through more like mainstream retail. Now, are you, are you predominantly selling to a Walmart or a Kroger? Or are you going to farmers markets and CSAs? I'm not saying that there's some people that don't do both, but I think that's, there's more of a decision there than maybe for livestock operations. So Becca, there's one last question in the chat if you have time for it. Yeah. So, Mike, this is a good question too. There, there is a lot more funding that is going into support local and regional food markets. I mean, we've documented over a billion dollars. It's gone into supporting local food markets, but it's just, you know, I think when I go in and talk to some local food groups and they're like, you know, all of the farm bill money goes to support commodity agriculture. That is just absolutely not true anymore. So, so I think that there are a lot of opportunities now through the diversity of programs that exist that continue to increase through each of these subsequent farm bills. Right. In fact, with the 2018 farm bill, now we have the farmer's market promotion program, local food promotion program, the value to producer program, that those are all mandatory funding now that, you know, weren't previously. So I think there's a lot of opportunities and there's also a lot of support for risk management for the local food markets that didn't exist previously. So, for example, I would, I helped USDA risk management agency last summer and they're trying to develop better insurance programs, right? Because the insurance programs have generally targeted commodity oriented producers. And, you know, now they just came out with a new version of the whole farm revenue for producers under a hundred thousand dollars in gross cash farm income. So I, I think that there are more and more of these opportunities that are supporting local and regional food markets. And it's just really up to communities to take advantage of what those are, because as you all know, you know, writing grants and then reporting on grants and then doing the work of the grants is not insignificant. And I also think sometimes what's happening because we've had less of the research and sort of understood some of the farm financial and regional economic impacts of these types of investments or economic developers have said really that's sort of cute and haven't recognized the fact that local food markets have become more mainstream in a lot of places. Is that we have had well-intentioned people who don't necessarily understand the consequences of what their decisions are that have driven that work. And that's why thinking about what are the goals and who are the producers you're trying to support, right? Trying to develop school food markets for small scale producers generally doesn't work, right? Those small producers have very high costs of, of production and those school markets have very little money, even with subsidies to pay for those products. And so thinking about right sizing those opportunities and leveraging those dollars is really important. Is that good, Mike, or additional questions? Okay. And with that, I am going to have to return to wrangling my children, but thank you so much, Quinn. And if anyone has any additional follow-up questions, please don't hesitate to, to reach out. I'm, I'm happy to try to provide support as I'm able. Thank you, Becca. Have a great rest of your day. Thanks, Becca. All right. We're going to move to the next portion, but in the meantime, we're going to take about, Quinn, should we take about a one or two minute break here or until about 10.05 and then go with Simone? Yeah, that sounds good to me. As long as Simone is ready, go, go ahead with that and get started by 10.10 with her. Okay, that's perfect. So if you all need to go get some coffee, use the restroom, just do that. We'll, we'll just be on a break until 10.10. Is that correct, Quinn? Yeah, let's go 10.07. Okay, 10.07. So just, just come back in about five, 10, five, six minutes and we'll start up again. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, . Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I think we can start up again in a, we'll be starting in about a minute, just letting everyone know. Just give it till about 10.07 and then we will restart. All right. All right. All right. All right. We're going to start up with our next speaker. So our next speaker is Simone Way. Simone is a community builder and the co-founder of Folkways. Though she's a student of marketing and business. And her work in life, Simone revels in creating moments of wonder and magic in everyday life. And Simone today is going to tell you a little bit about some of the things that she's been doing in North Dakota around local foods and farmers markets. So with that, I will turn it over to Simone. If she's ready to start sharing. All right. We can see. Take it to Daphne. To all right now. Yep, we can hear you. Can you see my screen? Yes. Awesome. Okay. Perfect. I'll just pull out my notes here. Hi, I'm Simone, and I am from Fargo, North Dakota. I helped to co-found the Red River Market in 2015. So I just want to share a little bit about what makes our market successful and just show an example of what can be done to and for a community when our market is thriving. Our market's mission is to create a place where all people can experience the joys of local food. And I really just want to break that down really quick because we're very intentional about picking those words because we want to create a place. We're really interested in placemaking and creating a welcoming space that both accommodates commerce, but also makes it a town square that people want to spend time. All people are really focused as well on creating a space that's inclusive, welcome to people of all backgrounds, socioeconomic status, and lifestyle, and a place that they can experience the joys of local food. Because we want to make it fun. We want to make it a great place to be. And we want to make it a place that creates access to local food and local food education as well. So you can see our pillars here are public space, community, small business, and food. And we'll kind of go through all of these throughout the presentation, but the focus on food access, public space, like in our mission, shows through in our pillars as well. So I just want to show a little bit of the growth of the farmers market over the years. So we opened in 2015. So this upcoming summer and fall season will only be our eighth season in operation. So in 2015, we were just on the street. As you can see in this photo is pretty much the entire market, which makes it just really a fun progression, having just the market fit into one photo, and then going to a market that barely fits in the screen. So over the years, we spent time in two different parking lots. So let's see if I can do that. Once again. Should be under, yeah, your sounds on your audio for Zoom, if I remember correctly. One sec. How's that? Same. Same. No, that's a lot better. That's a lot better. Sorry, I interrupted you. I, I just noticed that. So if we have the recording, then it'll be a little bit better. So, all right. Can you hear me now? Yes. That's much, much better now. Okay. Let me know if it gets messed up again. Can you still see the presentation? Yes. There we go. Perfect. So, as I was saying, we were in two different parking lots over the years. This one was on North Broadway in downtown Fargo. You can see that we brought in our own stage. We put down turf. We painted the ground. We did a lot of stuff to make this shabby little parking lot into a farmer's market. And similarly, when we were sort of on the south side of downtown, we took two different parking lots, merged them together, and created, again, a public space with a stage seating area and all of that. And I just wanted to highlight this because one of the biggest issues that farmers markets have is finding and creating suitable space. And the only reason that we were able to do this is that we have a close relationship with a private developer that allows us to, has allowed us to use spaces during the pre-development phase before, after they purchased the parking lot and before they build a building there. And this really worked well for us because we were able to have a temporary space that we were able to use for free, have free storage, have the ability to set up temporary power, temporary infrastructure, and create these seasonal little pop-up plazas with turf seating stage and all that. And we were only able to do this because we had that existing relationship. And most farmers markets wouldn't have that automatic connection with a company that would be able to provide them with that space. So as we move forward, we are now at Broadway Square, which is a partnership through the same development company that created this space. The Parks Department now runs it. So we're able to rent this space from them. It's an awesome space that creates a way more welcoming atmosphere, way safer atmosphere, to be able to provide the farmers market with an awesome stage built in sound system. We've got the turf area. They take care of all the seating, the umbrellas. There's an awesome little fountain, as you can see there for kids to play. And it really just makes it a community space. And it's so wonderful to have that while the market's going on. While the market's turned off, you can see the market spans two blocks across the street and adjacent to the plaza. So it's really added a wonderful community element to the market as well. So the market creates space for that is really welcoming to kids as well. We do weekly programming for kids, including activities provided by nonprofit organizations. We've purchased these big blue blocks from the Imagination Playground that help us have some physical activity for kids as well. It helps parents be able to shop and have a utility experience while also having a place for their families to play for a fun experience as well. And every week we have performances at the market. So we kick off our season with a performance from some Native American dancers really to bless the market and welcome people to the space. Just a couple more pictures to give you an idea about what the market looks like when we are open. Tons of vendors at the market as well. So I just wanted to share some stats and how we measure success at the farmer's market. This data is really important to us and it's really important to us to be able to track our community impact and be able to share that with our community, our sponsors, our vendors, and everyone that is involved in creating this event. So this is one of our by the numbers pages. And I really want to highlight the first number. Just a million dollars was spent with local small businesses at our market last season. That is huge impact for the 83 small businesses that take part in the market. And that number, you can kind of see how fast we are growing over the years. And this is a 49% increase in the spending from 2020. And I will tell you from 2019 to 2020, we also had an increase in spending as well. Even with the pandemic, people were spending more at the market. Question in the chat, how many markets do you do? We do 17 in season markets, which is where this number is coming from. And then we also do this year, we did four off season markets, winter and spring as well. So that number does not include any money made from those off season markets. We had 14,000 or 114,000 attendees at our market last season for those summer and fall events with 83 participating vendors and four new businesses launched at the market. We had more businesses join the market that were pre-existing before actually launched opening day of the market. So what impact does that have on our community? So there's a couple of ways to measure this, but I want to just kind of outline how we think about it. So in my research, I found this study of the Fond du Lac Wisconsin farmers market. So in the research that they did, they thought that one third of their visitors would go on to spend an average of $25 at downtown businesses surrounding their farmers market. So if you take that number of 114,000 visitors divide by three and multiply by $25, you get $950,000 estimated spent at downtown surrounding businesses, restaurants, local shops, et cetera. So I actually think that this for our market is low because we do a poll of our visitors, big survey every year. And one question that we asked is, we always ask is how many, or sorry, we ask if they visit surrounding businesses or shops when they come to the market. And actually from our research of our own customers, actually it's closer to two thirds of visitors go on to spend money at different shops and restaurants after they visit the market. So I think that the $950,000 is a conservative estimate. But I think sharing that story from both directions of something that was a proven study that they did and kind of more of a quantitative or qualitative question that we ask can get you to an average of that. We also have live performances at our farmers market. I just wanted to highlight that as well. So we have 74, we had 74 live performances at the market last season, and those are all paid performances to local musicians. So we really like to support our musician and performer community. About a quarter of those are cultural demonstrations, like I showed with the Native American dancers earlier. So we've had everything from ballet to theater performances to opera to symphony perform during those cultural demonstrations. And we really loved that we are a free venue all ages where we can share the talents of our community and show things that people may not have ever seen before with their families. So now I just want to give you a quick financial picture of the farmers market to help understand how it works and where our funding comes from. So as you can see from this chart, only 50% of our revenue comes from sponsorships. So these relationships are really important to us. We have cultivated, we've worked really hard to cultivate them over the past eight years, and we're really getting to a point where people believe in what we're doing. People believe in spaces for families and access to local foods and companies are joining in with us every single year with no questions asked. And that's a really awesome change that we've seen over the last eight years. I think in the last year we finally come into that successful place of fundraising. The vendor fees, as you can see here, only cover 25% of our total revenue. So that really covers our marketing and then our market manager. So just that one staff role that's essential to the vendors success of the farmers market and the ability to advertise is covered by vendor fees. The rest of it, the programming, all of our staff time to coordinate all of that, everything else that comes with the market, the cooking demonstrations, the awesome space, the electricity, all that logistical stuff is covered by individual donations, a very small amount of grants, and then sponsorships. So expenses, our biggest expenses, our biggest expenses, obviously staff. We have a small group of staff, not everyone is paid directly from the farmers market. We do other events that also help support our staff as well. Programming is a big part of this. Like I said, the performances are all paid. We have sound and AV staff that are there every day. So a big portion goes to that. Operations, of course, our venue is a big part of that fee and everything else that comes along with that. And of course, we do spend a decent amount of marketing, but a lot of our marketing and same kind donations as well that isn't reflected in this budget. So we have tons of free ads that are being run for the farmers market as well. So now I want to cover a little bit more about how community organizations can help farmers markets in creative ways. So it's not just sponsorships that have helped us along the way at the Red River Market. So there are many creative ways that organizations have jumped in to help us or ways that we have asked organizations to get creative think differently and think about what area of their budgets that we can access in order to create great partnerships that help both parties. So some some some ways that organizations have helped us is access to sponsorships. And we don't know everyone in the community. And I think a lot of small farmers markets struggle with this, but creating connections with local between local markets and business businesses or individuals that can be sponsors and create an authentic partnership. So people that care about people that care about people that care about people that care about the success of your downtown or wherever the market is, whether that's a park or whatever, can become great sponsorships and long term partners. So, like I said, for the second one, access to venues is one of the most difficult things that farmers markets face. I've talked to so many different farmers markets that tell me that their biggest struggle is a suitable venue, whether that's a financial barrier, whether that's a infrastructure barrier with power with bathrooms, those types of things, or just having a venue that's consistent. A lot of people I've talked to have said, you know, we're in this space, but we don't know how long it's going to last. And we're always looking for the next next space. So others can help form those relationships with like we had with the developers to be able to use spaces between when we started and we when we found our permanent location. Another way that organizations can help is marketing partnerships. So we've worked with our EDC and our Chamber of Commerce to be able to pay for video and photography for our market. And this is an awesome way that helps both parties. So these organizations want to use the farmers market to market to advertise their community to new residents. I know a lot of communities in the area are struggling with attracting new residents, and this is an awesome way to help do that. So our Chamber of Commerce helped us fund a video that we use to advertise the market and then they use went on to use that to advertise our community and say wow look at the awesome thing that's happening in our community. Here's a great video and videos can be several thousand dollars. So that was an awesome sponsorship for for us as well. Skilled labor partnership partnerships. So this is something we've just started entering the we had a company actually that said, hey, our accountants have some spare time like we're not at full capacity right now. And would it help you to have our CPAs, you know, sit down with you or help help with your books, which is an incredible savings for us. We have both a bookkeeper and higher additional accounting assistance as we grow, and that can be a huge savings and for farmers markets that just have, you know, one part time market manager staff. The ability to talk to someone that has a skill that has a skill that can save them a ton of time and a ton of money. And the last is, of course, sponsorship is really important one. I think the most obvious, but helping your market grow requires dollars and the relationships to do that so. I have I think I have a couple more minutes if we have time to put a question in the chat or else, please let me know if you've been to the Red River Market. I'd love to hear, see some familiar names on the list as well. We've got one question. Let's see here. How many markets do you do from Jonathan Moser and follow up? How many years are weekly participants? Yeah, so we have about 50 to 60, depending on the day, weekly participants at the market. Some of that was a constraint of space. There was a little bit of construction going on that limited the amount of booths that we were able to have. I think this year, now that that construction is done, that can go up higher on our busiest days. We have a fall festival that's really popular for vendors and we have a opening day and kids day and things like that, where more vendors would like to come. But we didn't have the space. So I think average will probably be about 60 this year. I guess how many markets do you direct was the other question. Yeah. Yeah. So we do 17 markets during our full season and then in the off season this year, we're doing four off season markets. Two of those are in we're indoors at two different malls in the community and then two will be outdoors. But they're just kind of one off events in April and May. And we use those events to bring the market around the community to help us advertise and reach more folks around different neighborhoods. So we're hosting one in West Fargo in their kind of downtown area. One in kind of the central Fargo area near 45th Street has a lot of surrounding apartments in the area. And then the two other events were at West Acres Mall, which was really helpful for us because they helped us advertise. They have a huge audience and one of the Marquette Center Mall. Oh, we appreciate that. Yeah, I think that I think that our focus on community and whether that's between all of our vendors or our visitors or our volunteers, I think that there's really just. We take a lot of care in making sure that people feel like they are important and, you know, the the best part of the farmers market, whether that's, you know, vendors. We have a vendor social where everyone gets together. We are trying to do volunteer social just really, really bring together that sense of community. So, Simone, I don't want to take over your presentation, but I was just going to mention that in I lived in Fargo from 2005 to 2009 on and off. And the what was existing in in Fargo for farmers markets was kind of a sad excuse for what markets can be. And it's it's it was sad that that's the state of it. I mean, there was, you know, a couple of vendors who were very much like their own board and they protected their own, you know, sales avenues and didn't dream big, I guess, in terms of what the community could actually support. And I would say the economic impact of what you guys have brought to downtown in Fargo and bringing people down there every Saturday is pretty amazing. But I think it really ties into that community aspect of it, that the thing that I see and one of the things that's important for BizMarket, which I'm we've been a part of since that, I guess, basically since it started. But in 2014, I believe. But one of the big keys for that was that it was people, community members who had connections with Parks and Rec and other community, you know, whether that be agencies or organizations that were able to kind of move it along. Rather than it be vendors doing it for themselves. And I think. And I think. The overall outcome of what happened on community, the community aspect of it, you know, is is the thing that's missing in a lot of these markets. Yeah. And that's when we started. What we started. What we heard was, you know, the most successful markets. The vendors come to vend and the organizers are a non biased third party that's that specialize in doing events and not specialize in farming, because those are two very different things. And yeah, one thing I learned is that just like. A sense of fairness helps eliminate those things that can prevent your vendors from being a strong community. And one thing I love about our vendor community is that really, like, we just cultivated a place where everyone wants to help each other out something someone runs out of something someone's there to help someone needs change someone's there to help. And that is really important to us that people also can get to know each other outside of the farmers market. And, you know, talk about what they do for their other jobs or what they you know, they're they get to know their kids and their families. So that creates really a nice sense of community there. But yeah, it's it's the organizing part of it. It takes so many different people in so many different organizations and those connections that variety of community members can provide is essential to the success. We could not have done this with so many other people in organizations that just like jumped in at the moment we needed them. Thanks, Simone. If there's if there isn't any other questions, we can move to the next speaker. Definitely awesome presentation. Thanks for sharing everything about the red road market with the group. I'm going to switch to share my screen and then we'll move to the next week one second. Perfect. So our third speaker. You just heard him talk actually it's Jonathan Mosier. And Jonathan owns and operates forager farms outside of Bismarck with his wife and family and also is on the board of Bismarck. So I'm going to go to the Bismarck market. And I will turn it over to Jonathan. He's going to speak a little bit more about some things that they've been doing out in Bismarck. I personally go to the Bismarck market and I'm friends with some of the board members as well Jonathan. So just excited to hear what you have to say. Okay. So is my everything going? Okay. Hang on one second here. There we go. So I actually don't have a PowerPoint presentation. I was told by Quinn that this is more of a panel discussion. But I'll just kind of brief on what we've been doing as a farm. We started in 2014. That presentation that Becky gave was really kind of hit the nail on the head in terms of what farmers in our industry are doing and the impacts of local food. So for us it's very important to have the economic viability of our farm. And so it's interesting to me like obviously we need resources to be able to access credit and upgrade our stuff. But for us we keep coming back to we don't necessarily need more loans. We need more sales. And how do we do that? Looks like we have a little. So Quinn wants us to wants me to tell you about the experience of farmers market scenes and this perspective of a vendor. So from that perspective, it's been interesting to be a farmers market vendor and see it kind of change over the years. Our market started in 2014. And like Simone said, it's kind of just grown every year. We haven't seen the jumps that red river market has in terms of sales. But it has grown significantly, even though, you know, you have a flux of vendors that come in and out. But as an individual vendor, we keep looking at the market as a hub for I don't want to say like guaranteed sales, but very much a place where we can kind of depend on our customers coming out on a weekly basis. And so that has really driven us to try to focus on our market more and including me getting more involved with the board. And I think it's good to have a community voice and outside bias, unbiased voices for the market. But I think as well as that, you also have to have a little bit of vendor input. And so that's part of why I got involved is to be able to make sure that we're still keeping that vendor perspective on the board. And I think I think we have like nine members and of those nine members board members, I think four of them are vendors right now, which is more than we've had in the past. But we've had community participants that have kind of dropped out. So we've picked up the ball, but I feel like local foods in general, like the farmers market scene in general, is interesting in places like North Dakota, because we're not necessarily like a touristy type place and our window for sales is so short. So, you know, being a, if you were in a touristy area, I feel like it's people with disposable income coming out to those areas and buying dinner for the weekends, versus here we're providing, you know, our, our regular customers with food for their week, every week, if they're coming up to the market. And so that's a little different way to look at how to grow things. And just as a vendor in general, we're just trying to put more stuff on the table, literally provide more opportunity for people to buy and bring more people down to the market. I don't know what our average like market attendance is, but I know it's a percentage of a percentage of the population of the families in Bismarck and Mandan. And so we could be bringing a lot more people to our market on a Saturday, which is part of what we're working on. Jonathan, one thing I want to touch on in the conversation. Yes, thank you so much for being a part of this quote unquote panel one. And is having the opportunity to talk through and lay out from the vendors perspective what the experience of farmers markets in North Dakota have been, and also through your experience in the various areas like you touched on being in Fargo, and your own personal history, what you've seen work and hasn't worked. But in this case, what I'm asking with the business market and its development kind of being parallel to the same timeline is Red River Market. Simone mentioned that there was the other incentives and relationships that allowed the Red River Market to kind of come through and be what it is today. And obviously we can recognize that that may not be available to everyone in the same capacity. What are some challenges you've seen over the years with the business market that someone in the economic development sector or that category we keep referring to outside of the vendor could have helped with maybe that you could maybe just outline a specific example if there is one. Okay, so I would say Fargo was, and this is giving all credit to the people that put that market together with Fargo was right for a market like that. It was ready 10 years before they put that together. Yes, it took a lot of work. And yes, they had the right connections at the right time, which was probably why it took as long as it did. But I mean, if it would have been started 10 years sooner, it would have been a slower growth type of thing. But what they put together is absolutely amazing and the community has backed it full stop as far as I can see from an outside perspective. And I have been down to their market and it's just great to go down to the market. And so for Biz Market, we look at it the same way we we I mean part of our mission is to have, you know, local food, local food market, local food and arts market down in a green space where families can come down and get their food for the week by some, you know, things from other vendors soaps and flowers and whatever it is that we have available. And also spend some time in a green space, let their kids run around play on the playground. We've had a great partnership with Parks and Rec, the Bismarck Parks and Rec Department. And so that's been super important for us. I think some of the things that maybe held us back from growing as quickly is maybe location. Maybe we haven't necessarily had the type of partnerships that would allow us to to access, you know, places that would be a little bit more friendly for a market. But I don't know, I feel like we're just trying to grow from where we are. I think the more partnerships you can have, the better access you're going to have to certain things. So we're just continuing to slow grind grow in a way that makes sense for us. It's a hard question to answer retrospectively. You know, a person daydreams a little bit about what a market could be. And, you know, you think of like how successful this is Bismarck specific, but how successful something like the street fair is and how many people go out to the street fair when it's going on in Bismarck. And, you know, you kind of think, well, could that be what is market is downtown every Saturday and, you know, developing those partnerships. If somebody in the community wants to see something like that happen, it's completely possible. We just have to have the right connections to do it. Right. No, that's a fantastic answer. And I think that gave me what I was looking for. My other question for you is when when you look at the business opportunity that is a farmer's market and yourself as a vendor who has a farm and you have other outlets that you sell through, whether it be your CSA or your marketing directly to the customer and your own relationships you develop. If you're going to quantify the farmer's market activity on a pie chart for how much business activity it brings you, what would you say that is? We're about a third, I would say. A third of our gross revenue comes from the farmer's market and our season is longer, a little bit longer than the Red River market anyways. I think we have eight. It's not much longer, but we start in June, which I find interesting that more markets don't start until July because farmers are with a little bit of season extension are more than capable of having produce ready the first part of June. And to me, if you start mid July or say after the fourth of July, you're missing basically four or five markets to get stuff to your customers. And I know the first couple of markets are a little slim pickings and maybe you just get radish and some spinach and greens, but that's still food and it's for my farm is still revenue. And so, yeah, I think that's kind of the thing is, yeah, just that the opportunity to expand those markets is there. Did I answer your question? Yes, I think you did. And I was just kind of touching on what Becca had said earlier. The graphs and everything that she provided us were fantastic. However, given the small scale of farmers markets, it kind of made it a little sad from a business opportunity perspective to say that there's all these hurdles standing in the way. However, I know from a local food production standpoint, the farmers market offers the one of the easier opportunities to get product into your customers hands market yourself and kind of play that role in the business incubation set of farmers markets. And that's what I was touching on. Simone put in the chat, what can market organizers do to provide greater support to our vendors? So if you have anything to say about that from a vendors perspective. That's interesting. Bring more people to the market as many people as you can possibly get to the market. I honestly I think sales drives this whole thing. Like you can give me as many loans as you could possibly give me, but if I can't pay them back, it doesn't matter. So the more people we can get out. And this is part of my like kind of personal mission with one what I'm doing with this market, but also just the state in general. We need more support for why it's important to shop at farmers markets, why it's important to, you know, support farmers in your community. And yeah, it's just that's just my part of my personal mission. And so that touches on the marketing standpoint. And so, Simone, I'm not sure that answers your question specifically. When I say market organizers, you have folkways with the capacity that you have to kind of orchestrate specific agendas that you like to set out. I don't see that happening from what we've what we've witnessed over this grand period. We don't see that happening too broadly across the rural areas in North Dakota. And I'm not sure whether that's just not understanding the benefits of farmers markets, the functionality of farmers markets, or just how to develop this cohesive relationships with vendors and how to work it into a community. But it's very clear that there's a there's a there's a big gap out there. And the purpose of this workshop and this conversation topic, from my perspective, is to bring to light, we need more people at the table to figure out what's going on, how to do this. It's clear as opportunities, we have working examples, we have the data, we have the quote unquote science to back it up. So what do we need to do in a real world sense outside of just the marketing function, from a promotional aspect to equip stakeholders with what they need to move forward and develop these markets more successfully. So there are more business opportunities out there. So there are more community connections happening. And we have this, you know, this culture creation, so to speak. And yeah, and Jonathan, thank you so much for talking about that. I open it up to any other questions or any other thoughts anybody may have. Just for the remainder of this program that we have going. So if anybody has anything they'd like to throw out there from their experience or just want to say for the record, feel free. Otherwise, I'll just keep renting. Hey, Quinn, I'm going to jump in and say something to those of you on the call that don't know me. I have worked a lot with farmers markets in the state and I've been to a lot of farmers markets. And I can say the one thing that I've noticed when I go to Biz Market and Red River Market does a really good job with this. So what we're doing is having a venue that increases the dwell time and the amount of time you spend at the market. So at Biz Market, it's really great because you're in the park there and you are taking advantage of that space. And at Red River Market now with your new location, you have the square. But even before then, like Simone talked about, like bringing in just turf or chairs or whatever it is to get people to stay at the market. The markets I visited in North Dakota, the longer you can get people hanging out at the market, the more successful it's going to be. Because that drives sales for your vendors and also that community feeling. So even if you're a small little market, if you start with a table and some chairs, I think that's a really tangible first step that you can take. That's actually a really good point. I was a part of, I've seen a couple of markets anyways, and they were basically like drive up style markets. And it was, you know, they're in the middle of a parking lot. And how do you keep greens fresh in the middle of a parking lot when it's 90 degrees at four o'clock on a July day? You know, but yeah, it's very much that's the focus of Biz Market is how do we get people to spend, you know, it's an event. It's an experience. People come out to the market, not just buy a couple of things and run away. It's to bring their families out and spend time in the park and spend time with the people that are organizing the market and the vendors themselves. I know Ann Olson was on here and Shelby had worked with Ann at the Miner market. And so speaking from the miner perspective, we have multiple markets and I know Bismarck and Fargo also have multiple markets happening on the same day. One thing I would say from a world's perspective is there might not be all these activities happening, but there's an opportunity for them to happen. If those that want to have activities all come together and say, let's do this on this day. And here's what that looks like. And you have a multiplier effect of more people coming to more events because people want to be where people are instead of trying to have separate things happen at the same time simultaneously and getting separated with a, you know, a limited customer base. So if there's ways to avoid that in smaller areas, like that'd be the biggest incentive I could say to have a farmer's market in a vibrant community scene. So if there's a lot of opportunities for them to be able to provide that in a larger community connection with sponsors or other partners. Jonathan, I was wondering if you could just speak a little bit about your board and the folks who are on there and if they've been able to provide any greater community connection with sponsors or other partners. So I'm trying to think. Yeah, our current board is made up of, I think there's four vendors, four of us vendors on there right now. But we all have kind of connections within the community as well. But we've had people that have been a part of the parks department and been a part of kind of the nonprofit community, the arts community. And having those perspectives have been super important because it's brought. I mean, just as a vendor, I don't think about, you know, a mural on the side of, you know, the, the, the parks building that's next to it. But even just having the opportunity to. To do that project and paint that particular side of the building with, you know, something that is tied to our farmers market. And, you know, it creates a better space creates a better experience for everyone that's there. And then obviously there's like the community aspect of actually painting it. So the artists that put it together had, you know, kids. You know, once I had the outline, the kids were able to, to fill in the outlines of the painting. So just the, those outside perspectives have been super important for. For doing things other than just, and other than just vending, you know, local food. To be honest, I have very limited bandwidth when the season's going on and even stepping into a board role. I'm like, okay, so is this a good idea or not? Yeah. It's, it's, is one of those things where. I think a farmer, a producers bandwidth. It's just so limited that once you get into the stretch of the market, you have to have people that have, you know, those other connections and other jobs and other things that, you know, we're working sunup to sundown, you know, not to like give the whole. You know, cliche of farming, but you know, when you're, when you're building a business and trying to do that, your focus is on the business versus on like, say the farmers market in general. And so having those outside partners with bandwidth that. That's outside of the production aspect of agriculture is super important to keep things kind of rolling like momentum is they can pick up, you know, where we can't. We don't necessarily have the bandwidth and I have connections with some of the other markets in, in North Dakota. And it seems like the ones that have volunteer market managers or have, you know, a board that's consisted of all vendors that they get burned out real fast. Because once you get into the, you know, you get into July and August and September and you're doing all the harvesting. And also trying to organize where everybody goes on market day. It just doesn't necessarily work for the logistics, just the logistics aspect. That's not even like the capacity building side of things. So I think those are the kind of keys. All right. I think that's pretty much it for the program today. We're going to just, I'll just put up a slide for closing. So just letting you guys know if you guys have any questions. Put them in the chat now for any of the, any of the speakers for Quinn, anyone else involved in this. And then once I get the slide up, Quinn's email will be on the slide. So if you guys have any, any questions, you can email directly to Quinn's email. And Quinn, if you want to just like repeat your email just in case. Yeah. And I just want to say thanks to everyone for participating today and listening. I know our audience wasn't the largest, but we kind of put this thing together over the past week. And I'm happy that the word got out and we at least got a start to this conversation. Looking to the future, this grant program that funded this particular workshop will be concluding in March, or at the end of this month rather. And so now it's coming back to the table and figuring out what role did we play in the farmers market scene of North Dakota and what steps can we take to keep fulfilling that role of improving and supporting the existing activities and stakeholders. So with my email and any thoughts anybody may have on this, please, please feel free to contact me anytime. Let me know. My email is QuinnRenfant at dakotacollege.edu. So this can be Q-U-I-N-N Renfant. There's a spelled on my name thing here. There's a period in there and it's at dakotacollege.edu. As you see on the screen. I'm going to put that in the chat too so people can copy paste that. That would be probably the easiest way to do that. Perfect. Well, anyways, like I said, thank you so much, everyone. Just at the end of it, I will be in contact with Simone, Jonathan, and Becca at some point here today. Otherwise, I look forward to any continued conversation and hopefully seeing you all the next workshop. Can I just say one more thing? Yep. I just wanted to say that for any community member that's listening or going to listen to this in the future that isn't, you know, a producer or a part of a farmer's market now. So just reaching out to a farmer's market board or vendors in the farmer's market with ideas that you might have to grow a market or opportunities that might be available in a community for support of a farmer's market or just support of business incubators in general, whether that be a farmer's market or something else. So just reaching out to the people who are already kind of carrying the load for farmer's markets would be great because we don't have the bandwidth to look for all these things and make all these connections. And if you want to see these things flourish in your communities, reaching out and providing those connections that you might have that we don't is super important. So please do so. Yes, and I think that's a great point to make. Definitely going to need help from more people at the table. Thank you, Jonathan. All right, with that, I think we're done for the day. Thanks everyone for coming. Thank you all. Thank you. Thank you. All right, I swear. Thank you.