Unknown Title
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9q2_Sesns-0
Unknown Category
 We'll be right back. Hey what's going on? So today I'm going to prepare my cold frames for, I don't want to say winter, but just to plant them for the fall. I had some herbs going in them, but they all went to bolt just because it hasn't rained in so long and it's been so hot. So I'm going to leave those be and I'm going to try to harvest what seeds I can out of them. But for now I'm going to move the cold frames back. And if you've been following my channel, you know I've moved them quite a few times, but now that I have fell the walnut tree, I can grow closer to my house without having to worry about lack of walnut toxicity killing my plants that I plant. So I'm going to move them over here, I'm going to move the wood chips and fill them with some soil and fill some herbs in there that are a little bit cold hardier. I'm going to move them over here. Okay, I have those kind of close to where I want them. Hopefully this is their final resting place, but I don't want to be absolute! absolute because I changed my mind a lot. But I'm hoping that these can stay here and I can just come out of my kitchen real quick when I'm cooking, grab something, go back in. So I'm hoping these are the final resting place, but I don't know, who knows. So anyway, now that I have them where I want them, I'm gonna chip this area, line up my little containers, fill the containers with some soil, plant some things in there for the fall, and see what happens. I'm getting locked in it! Medicare console which desapare썹 put bundles somewhere. items that papers dapatAKEE Queen and Donkey Kai Road to the boundary. And you canleme theman on the road! Thank you. Thank you. Cool. So I have those chips done. Next I need to get some soil. It's down there. My soil pile is down at the bottom of the hill. I'm pretty late ahead of it. It's kind of hot still and I've done way too much the last couple of days because it was cool. The last couple of days but it was hot at the end of the day. So I should probably wait until tomorrow. But tomorrow is supposed to be really nice and I have other things I want to do so I'm going to try to do it tonight. I'm just going to go real slowly and I don't know. Finally go I'm going to portray it. So, let me take likeurr. Everything is cool. Alright! It's been a year since I've ridden in a car. When I run around in a car, it's hard to explain, but I get really lightheaded, like extremely lightheaded, and my body tenses up, my arms, they lock up, and it's hard for me to move them, and it's really hard for me to breathe, and it's just uncomfortable. It's been a year, and probably about three years before that. It's been since 2014, it started to bother me, so even before then, it was very seldom I would ride in a car, but I lived closer to civilization, so I would go someplace. It was... Similar things happen when I start to push myself. It's one of the reasons I know I'm doing too much. I get how I feel right now, just really lightheaded, and when I was shoveling that, my body was starting to lock up, and it's fine, whatever. I mean, I can get through it. I'll just have to... It'll go away. I'll lay down for a while, and it'll go away. But I'm really dreading this drive up the hill, just because I'm really lightheaded. It's kind of funny, because I edit the videos, but sometimes if you watch me drive this car up the hill, I drive like five yards and stop, and then hang out a little bit, and then I drive like five yards and stop, and then hang out a little bit. And it's just worse in the heat, you know, and when it's 50 degrees, it doesn't bother me as much. But it's probably about 82, 83 right now. I probably wouldn't make a good desert guide. Here she goes. Here she goes. Here's what's going on. Let's go. cool so i got the compost in there i'm ready to plant some the one bed i'm just going to plant fully with lettuce half with green towers half with the mini romaine i know i'm setting i'm getting away from it and i am but i just i still have a ton of seed so i figured now is a great time to use it because i'm up against the clock so so that's the lettuce and then i just threw in the herbs real quick i threw in a couple three rows of arugula some dandelion greens some sorrel some endive some comet suna and i think that's it probably something else i'm just forgetting about but anyway you know that's it um appreciate you hanging out i always appreciate you hanging out um take it easy catch you later be good good you you