Natural Action Technologies presents Commercial Unit PVC Installation with Clayton Nolte
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9SbHzd5Ydpg
Science & Technology
 Text Pleubel clouds Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. There we go. Hear the ratchet? Yep. Again. Again. So with each ratchet you get just a little bit more into the cut. You get more cut. Gotcha. And it's getting easier. Yeah. As you get into the pipe a little bit it starts to relax. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So the 16 and a quarter is pretty much standard for these commercials. Yeah. Pretty much. Yeah. Pretty much. Yeah. Pretty much. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We are just showing an installation here with a 2 inch commercial. We got one side on the left already threaded and we are now adjusting the final side. And we are just going to start a little bit looser to make the other side meet. This being kind of down in the trench, it is a little bit more back breaking labor than normal but take your time and line them up. And just make sure the threads start arranging and coming on clean to the other thread. We are just trying to line it up and get the final tightening down. So we can adjust by pushing both ends of the pipe in since we are a little bit short. Just a hair short. So we are going to push in on both ends of the pipe and start screwing it in and we should be sealed up and in business. for a week and efforts. If I put my But it is turning a little bit, eh? Yep, it's tight. Might have to turn the water on and check it now. But yeah, it's tight. What do you think about this installation as compared to others that you've done, Clayton? This installation is a little bit more difficult considering the unit is placed at least a foot down in the ground. So it makes leverage of a cutter a little bit less accessible. So as we get down deeper into the ground, you just need a bigger space. And we just came out here and dropped this in. It took about 30 minutes to actually complete the installation. It would probably take less time if we weren't filming it, however. But it is an application that people need to know about. These type of units are simple. And again, PVC gives you a great deal of latitude as far as installation. That's why out in the country on farms you see a lot more PVC installations. So anyway, this is our premier demonstration on this property. This is the perfect opportunity considering that this section of ground has not had water since spring, since the rains. So it's been pretty limited in having irrigation. Yeah. It's going to be fun to see what happens. Absolutely. Absolutely. Maybe we'll plant some fruit trees now that we have more irrigation out here. Gotcha. So in terms of a lot of installations, say for the commercial two-inch, what's some other scenarios that are more common than this for people to install? Well, the two-inch unit has primarily been used on pools. And that's the pool pump, a pump that conditions the water for your pool. That's a two-inch water line. And this would be the same unit. It's a two-inch commercial PVC connection. Another place that it's used is in irrigation, and that's for farms. Currently we have them on strawberry farms. We're putting them in for olive trees and for pecan trees, onions, virtually all types of plant growing places out on the farm scenario. There are people installing four of these on four-inch water lines for irrigation purposes. And what on irrigation, what it does is it reduces the amount of water needed for plants to thrive, to grow to their optimum potential. We just finished installing a commercial two-inch unit on PVC for landscape and watering system. And PVC is one of the most forgiving types of pipe. So it's easy to manipulate, it's easy to fix, it's easy to pull together. So we pull this unit together. And the reason that we're here is this pipe had to be replaced. It was broken. So all of this out here, all of the trees and the grass out here has not been getting water. So we want this to be green. Because when you have a green zone, the climate is much more comfortable where we live. So we want this to be green and healthy, always. And therefore we had to replace this pipe. And in so doing, it's a perfect opportunity to bring structured water into play. Because everything then will be much more lush, much more healthy. And therefore creating our green zone, this zone of comfortable living, comfortable space, and a very nice show place for our neighbors and for ourselves. Excellent. Clayton, thanks a lot for your time here today and this installation live technique. It's been great and the folks at home hopefully will get a lot out of this. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.