How I Salvaged Old Farm Gates For A New Animal Shelter
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9ysofS9WFTk
People & Blogs
 Well, I think today I'm going to try and get some work done on this farm gate. I kind of started looking at it the other day as to what needs to get salvaged and, you know, what's going to work going forward with it. Do I even have enough pieces to salvage? And I think at this point there's probably enough pieces left over where I can fasten it together and get it built the proper way. So I think we're going to start working on that. So. Well, after going through all the material, I have more than enough for what I want to do, which worked out pretty nice. I was a little bit worried. The truck hit the fence pretty hard, so it actually split the original two gates into four gates. So once I got a look at that and got it all cut up, I think I have enough here to do the two small gates that I want to do. Heck, I might even be able to save some of this stuff and maybe for some future projects or something, but we'll just have to wait and see how that goes. So for now, I'm going to focus on just making these two small gates. The original gates, I think were either eight foot or ten foot. I can't remember exactly, but these are going to be a little bit smaller. I think the overall dimension of each gate is going to be about 45 inches or so. So we'll get cutting up and measuring on this stuff and start figuring out where all the welds are going to be. So we'll get to the next step. Well, we made it to the halfway point. One's done. So I've got one more to go, but so far it's going pretty good. We'll get after it and hopefully wrap this thing up soon. Well, I just spent 10 minutes looking for my earplugs and they're around my neck. So that's good. Time well spent. We'll get to the next step. Let's talk about these welds. I'm not a professional welder. I don't have any formal training in being a welder. I had a few repairs I wanted to do around here. So I went on Amazon, bought a $100 welder and watched a few YouTube videos. These welds aren't going in any museum anytime soon. They don't need to be perfect. It's for a fence. As long as they hold together, I'll be happy. So I encourage you, if you have something you want to fix around the house or you want to learn how to weld, $100 isn't that much to spend to get started. Watch some YouTube videos. There's a lot of guys on here that know what they're talking about. And you too can do pretty crappy welds just like me. I'll be happy. I'll be happy.