The Dirt on Factory Farms | Our Climate Our Future SHORTS
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9yVcZT0Sa0k
Education
 Welcome to my home, where your meat gets made. I'm here to tell you what's really going on around these parts. A lot of folks think I live here. Pfft! I wish I lived there! This is a Concentrated Animal Feeding Operation, or CAFO. 99% of animals raised for slaughter in the U.S. are kept in one. But let's not get too ahead of ourselves now. I know lots of people eat meat, and that sitting round a table with our favorite dishes is a big part of our different cultures, holidays, and family traditions. So don't get me twisted because it's not individual family meals that are causing damage. It's the scale at which corporations are producing meat that is wreaking havoc to animals, to the planet, and to the people. Those cute, dreamy, grassy farms are where you might imagine your meat comes from. But the reality is more like a nightmare. Here's what's really going on. CAFOs are basically factory farms. Facilities where thousands of cattle, pigs, or chickens are packed into tiny spaces with no ability to move around freely. That's like 150,000 cattle crowded into a square mile of land. Or two million chickens into one farm. And the chickens and pigs don't even get to be outside. They're confined to such small pens that they can't even turn around. And oh my god. Then there's the waste. The animal waste, or manure, is held in huge storage lagoons that definitely aren't leak-proof. In Iowa alone, CAFOs produce 68 billion pounds of manure a year. That's nasty! And what happens when there's a storm, and those lagoons overflow? Yep, poop in the nearby river and groundwater. Which also might be your drinking water. Yum! And believe me, these places don't smell like roses either. People living nearby who are often low-income and communities of color have to smell the ammonia and other pollutants from their neighbors. As well as the airborne particulates. Airborne particulates? That's just another term for poop spray. Little particles from the manure that get lofted into the air and carried far beyond the CAFO. These carry disease-causing bacteria, fungi, and other pathogens. Exposure to this pollution can cause some serious health effects like lung disease and heart attacks. In fact, children living near CAFOs have elevated rates of asthma. If this doesn't sound like a great place to live near, it's not a great place to work either. CAFO jobs are dangerous, low-wage work, often done by people of color and migrant workers, who aren't able to advocate for safer working conditions. There's a lot of us bearing the brunt collectively for this system. Nearly one-third of livestock CAFO workers suffer from asthma. If that isn't enough to ruffle your feathers and start riots against big corporate factory farming, check out what CAFOs are doing to the planet. We all know about CO2, the main greenhouse gas that's warming the planet. But it's not the only one. Animals and their manure emit methane and nitrous oxide that are 23 and 300 times more powerful at trapping heat as CO2. In fact, the meat and dairy industry makes up 15% of global greenhouse gas emissions. That's the same as all forms of transportation combined. My beef isn't with bacon eaters per se, but there has got to be a better way to raise our meat without such cruel, inhumane practices to animals, workers, and our planet. But nothing's going to change while your tax dollars keep propping the meat industry up. And that's where you come in. I'm just a cow trying to get through the day. Tell me, now that you know the truth about CAFOs, what are you going to do about it?