Inside Russia's creepy sport farms
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_4f52yoExJE
Sports
 This is called subsoccer. I've been watching it nearly every day for weeks. Not because it's thrilling, it's not, but because of this guy with the orange shoes. He played in a game on April 3rd, then another the next morning, and another right after that. While he scored dozens of goals, I never once saw him celebrate. Because he's not playing to win. Neither are these people playing cricket, basketball, volleyball, water polo, tennis, and table tennis. Five on five, four on four, three on three, and two on two soccer. These so-called Frostball players aren't playing to win, nor are the guys playing whatever you call this. They're playing on fake teams with familiar names, in anonymous buildings without spectators, 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year, solely to give people like you and me something to gamble on. These are sports betting farms. They had this kind of squid game quality to them. Surely this can't be legal. But they aren't hidden on some shadowy part of the internet. They're on a site called OneXbet, probably the most profitable online gambling site ever, and a sponsor of world-famous soccer clubs. They're the company that everybody else in illegal gambling would really love to be. So how does a company taking bets on games like these end up partnering with clubs like these? The online gambling industry is a lot like an iceberg. A portion of bets are placed on legal sites like DraftKings that follow laws and pay taxes, but the majority are placed on illegal sites that don't. Last year, $23 billion went to legal companies, while $67 billion went to illegal ones, just in the United States. Somewhere in the middle is OneXbet. All bets on sports. OneXbet! It was founded in 2007 in Russia, registered in Cyprus, and licensed only in Curacao, but accessible basically anywhere with internet. Initially, it only offered sports betting, but quickly added casino games like blackjack, poker, and slots. Then, some questionable games. In 2019, UK investigators found OneXbet had a Pornhub casino with topless dealers and took bets on children's sports and even cockfighting. After that, several countries blocked OneXbet, but couldn't stop it. OneXbet set up hundreds of mirror sites to redirect its users around the restrictions to its main site. OneXbet also took bets on some amateur sports, mainly soccer. But in 2020, when the pandemic shut down all professional live sports, it added a lot more. Some were normal, others were bizarre. But at the time, they were the only live sports you could bet on. Reporters at Yasimer were among the first to investigate these fake competitions, but they wanted to know more. Where are they? Who are these players? And is any of it legal? So, each episode of Search Party requires a really tight workflow. That's how I go from idea to reporting to scripting to editing and animating. And there's a few ways that AI has actually made it quite faster, and I want to share those with you today. But I do all of them inside Notion AI. Notion is the sponsor for this week's episode. So I generate a lot of materials for each episode. When I get a new story, I'll often ask AI for just the basic facts to see if it's interesting. I'll also ask it for a list of experts. That saves me a lot of time when I figure out who's the best people to talk to. Honestly, my favorite thing is I'll ask AI to write me code for my animation software. This not only lets me do things that used to take me a long time, but has unlocked some pretty cool effects. And so I do all of it and keep it organized inside Notion AI. Their AI home has a few models, GPT 4.1 and Claude 3.7. Notion AI can then search across all my content and give me trustworthy context-aware answers. That means less time digging and more time doing the creative fun work. So Notion AI has become kind of my second brain. I also love to use Notion's AI meeting notes. We just had a meeting about doing some YouTube shorts and I'll use it to transcribe the meeting in real time, give me summarized notes and even a list of action items. Notion AI is available in all their business and enterprise accounts. So it's really easy to try these AI features across your teams. I use it every day and I love it and I recommend it. Go ahead and start with Notion AI today. Thanks again for their support and now we'll get you back to the episode. Ross Higgins works at Bellingcat as an open source investigator, meaning he uses publicly available services like satellites, leaked databases and even good old Google Maps to find stuff out. In 2023, a Yosema reporter named Philippe Eau Claire asked Ross for help locating the live streams. I went and met Philippe in London in a pub and about four hours later, I decided that I really wanted to do this. Over 24 hours, Ross and his team downloaded hundreds of live streams off of 1xbet, then scanned them for clues. What we're hoping for are tons of banners, player names on the back of shirts, any little hook to give us a clue where we can narrow it down. Some, like the ads surrounding this 4x4 soccer game, were easy because they're in Russian. Ross's team uploaded a screenshot to the Russian search engine Yandex and did a reverse image search, which turned up this photo. These roller doors match. So do these windows. And these graphics match those in a social media post about a children's soccer game. Confirmation that this sports betting farm is at the Alexander Stepin Football School in Bryonsk, Russia. We figured out it was kind of curtained off into three sections because balls were being kicked into other people's games and stuff. And all of a sudden, a two-year-old just toddles on to their pitch. Shockingly, 1xbet didn't offer any bets on him. Ross's team used this process called geolocation to link these banners to the Mordovia sports complex in Saransk. This mural to the Savoy Arena in Kyiv, Ukraine. And this tennis court to the Avant Club in Minsk, Belarus. Thanks to this Vince Carter mural, it only took me 10 minutes to confirm that the Canadian Beavers were playing the Chinese Dragons in St. Petersburg, Russia. But not every game had easy clues. So Ross turned to the thousand volunteers in Bellingcat's Discord channel for help. One used these discolored tent panels to place a soccer game at a venue in Moscow. And another used the time, date and direction of these shadows to place this cricket match somewhere in Western India. Some people are just really talented. They're able to find clues that other people don't pick up on, which is what we're all about, really. Ultimately, Bellingcat linked games to 16 venues, mostly in Eastern Europe. Not so surprising because 1xbet was founded in Russia. But strange because it's banned there. Things got more interesting when they looked into the players. This floorball team and this super intense tennis player seem to really care. But most, like my favorite subsoccer player, don't. Some seem exhausted. One referee was too careless to call this blatant carry foul. It's probably because they're at their jobs. Or more likely their second jobs. Philippe, the awesome reporter, tracked down a Russian man they called Dmitry, who said he was hired to play football at one farm for about 30 US dollars a day. He played six or seven games in a shift that lasted from 9am to 2pm, but quit after just a week. Generally speaking, we're talking about people who just want a job for a few weeks. It sounds like a lot of fun and I guess for some of them the reality hits home fairly quickly and they don't last very long. Dmitry said games were scheduled around the clock, seven days a week. And Ross's team counted 1,297 short football games over 24 hours. That's nearly half a million games a year of just short football. Dmitry also said he was instructed to never score more than five goals in a match and believed some were totally fixed. Do you have any sense that these games are rigged? I'm not sure exactly what the purpose of rigging these games would be so much. What we've been told is that the main purpose of these games is that they're just a very fast turnaround. And it's just this relentless grind to get as much cash out of you as they can. It's possible that not every player is being paid though. Bellingcat traced this floorball game to a Russian website that listed the players ages as young as 14 years old. And I noticed these volleyball players look pretty young too. A Sports Illustrated report says South Asian people are commonly trafficked into Russian cricket leagues. But it's difficult to find out more because these players don't work directly for 1xbet. Instead, they work for a handful of companies that organize, stream and license these games to 1xbet. Many of which are also based in Cyprus, making it really hard to judge whether or not they're doing things legally. These are companies that kind of exist in the in the shadows. In order to catch them out with anything, you'd have to see what the rules are in any particular jurisdiction. It's a gray area. Okay, so we've established that 1xbet is making a ton of money streaming these maybe illegal games. Definitely half-assed amateur games. But I still find it hard to believe that many people are actually placing bets on them. It's not about the betting on this stuff. It's any content converts. Ismail Valli monitors the illegal gambling industry. He confirmed that these amateur games generate only a small number of bets and that 1xbet makes less than 10% profit on them. But 1xbet hosts them because they're really good at grabbing people's attention. A lesson the company learned during the pandemic. So they started looking for other content. And what they came up with was crazy things like snail racing from Vietnam. And then they found people were clicking on it on social media and betting on it too. Videos of obscure sports played well on social media too. And by taking bets on them, 1xbet can attract a lot of new customers. Basically, they're clickbait. And once a customer clicks in, 1xbet persuades them to play casino games where it can make up to a 50% profit. The whole point of why we did any of this? Cross-sell the customer immediately into casino, into poker, into predictors. Now you're in a whole area where you can double travel your money kind of thing. Amateur sports also keep customers from leaving. See, casino games are hard to win. They're purely games of chance, red or black. Once a customer loses enough money, they'll lose confidence and quit. Unless 1xbet offers them something easier to win. In sports games, one team is the favorite. And the favorite usually wins. So having sports betting is a way to give a customer their confidence back and keep them gambling. The more niche the sport, the more addictive it is. You'll get a certain type of customer who gets very particular about, I'm really good at that cockfighting stuff. I'm really good at snail racing and children's basketball. So I want more of that content because you feel safer with it. I mean, to me it feels predatory, right? Yeah. I mean, traditionally in gambling, you need to have some knowledge of the sport. How can you have knowledge of table basketball between two random teenagers in a warehouse somewhere in St. Petersburg? It's kind of taking all the fun and sporting element out of any of this. That ability to draw and keep gamblers in is a big reason why 1xbet features so many amateur sports and why companies are farming as many games as possible. Not only for 1xbet anymore, but for thousands of illegal gambling sites. You'll see the same feeds that you see on 1xbet in many places. When crime makes money, what does crime do with money? Or crime? So the internet has made it easier than ever to set up an illegal gambling shop. And as shady as they are, it'll be a hard problem to fix. But it gets a lot harder when the world's best soccer clubs are helping them grow even bigger. 1xbet isn't licensed to operate in Spain or France, but it has sponsorship deals with FC Barcelona, Paris Saint-Germain, NLIL, as well as the top division of Italian football and the Confederation of African football. The trade-off is obvious. 1xbet can offer these organizations more money than anyone else, and these organizations can put 1xbet's brand in front of more fans than anyone else. But the clubs and leagues seem to be ignoring the growing list of controversies surrounding 1xbet and not asking many questions about it. On Barcelona's website, the club's vice president calls 1xbet a benchmark brand. Right above a quote from a 1xbet spokesperson who calls Barcelona a reliable partner. Ross's team looked up this spokesperson named Alex Summers and found this headshot, which actually belongs to a journalist at CNN. This is something FC Barcelona could have easily figured out. What I don't understand is that surely these football clubs must have some form of due diligence. So who are they speaking to that the public can't get a hold of? It all seems to me to be very cloaked and bagger. And it's happening all over the sport, more than ever. In 1999, one club in the English Premier League had a gambling company sponsor on its shirt. In 2025, Levendoo. Gambling companies are also the most common shirt sponsors of clubs in the Champions League and the FIFA Club World Cup. They also pay millions to advertise on fields and TV broadcasts. Many of these sites operate in the same grey area as 1xbet. But it's easy for them to obtain a license in, say, the UK, sponsor a Premier League club and get promoted all over the world, even in places they're banned. Illegal gambling is laundering its money through soccer. And it's coming at a steep cost for the sport and for its fans. The crime has gone full circle on this to basically say, we're not just corrupting sports by offering everybody tons of cash here. We're also corrupting it by just bringing you stuff that you think is sports, but it's not sports. We made it all up. Alright, thanks so much for watching. That's our 29th episode of Surge Party. We're going to be back in a couple of weeks with a geopolitics story. But first, I want to thank our partners on this. Bellingcat does amazing work. If you're not familiar with them, I recommend you check them out. They do really cool open source investigations all over the world. And then I want to thank Yasmer as well. If you're interested in the dark side of soccer, they do incredible investigations. So check out Yasmer. I read them all the time. And then finally, if you're interested in these kinds of internet investigations, I recommend you check out Tunnel Vision. That's my friend Kristof. He does this all the time. He's way better at it than I am. And he does some really interesting episodes. So go check out Tunnel Vision. Alright, so we'll see you in a couple of weeks. Thanks so much.