Top 5 Selling Farm Products!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_4MZp9uLJ9U
People & Blogs
 Hey friends and neighbors, this is Chuck out of Sheraton Park Farms. Welcome back to the farm. In the cooler, we've got something pretty special. These are our top five selling items from the farm, items that we've produced this year. So let's unpack this, see what they are, and talk about how much each one of these has grossed so far this year. All right, number five, chicken eggs. So our chicken eggs here at Sheraton Park Farms, we do not wash and we do not refrigerate our eggs. We've done a bunch of videos on how we raise our chickens, how we keep our chickens for eggs. You all can go back and review that. But we sell our chicken eggs in either the dozen or the half dozen packs. We had some folks that were interested in buying half dozens. Dozens, and these depend on the market that we're in. Some markets, we price a little bit differently. Half dozens can be four to five dollars per half dozen. Dozen eggs are seven to eight dollars. So far this year, we have grossed $3,402 on chicken eggs. Number four, everybody loves it, bacon. We have our bacon thick cut from our pasture raised pigs. This is a nice thick cut, uncured, hickory smoked bacon. Usually these come in about one pound packages. This one is .67. We sell our bacon, $15 a pound. And bacon will usually sell out within the first two weeks of picking it up from the processor. So bacon is not something that we keep in stock all the time. Flies off the shelf. So far this year, gross sales on bacon, $3,747. Number three, boneless pork chops. Again, from our pasture raised pigs, we have our processor cut our chops about an inch and a half thick. These things eat more like a ribeye than they do a pork chop. Two to the pack. Sometimes the packs are a little bit bigger depending upon the size of the pig that we had processed. These things can be about as big as your head on some of the older pigs, the bigger pigs, whenever we have those processed. We sell our boneless pork chops, $15 a pound. Gross sales so far this year on boneless chops, $4,241. Number two, chicken breasts. These are from our pasture raised chickens that we keep in our John Suscovitz tractors. Move them every day, fresh air, fresh sunshine, fresh grass. We raise some of the Cornish Crofts. We also raise some of the Freedom Ranger color yield. Pros and cons to both of those. On our chicken breast, these are two breasts of the pack. We leave bone in, skin on. It's just a lot of work to do skinless, boneless breasts to cut the tenders out. We just elect to not do it because we don't have a bit of trouble selling these. We sell our chicken breast. This pack here is just a little over two pounds. We sell our chicken breast, $11 a pound. So far this year, I think we've processed somewhere in the neighborhood of about 1,500 chickens. Gross sales on chicken breast, two to the pack, $4,836. Okay, there's number five, four, three, and two top selling items from the farm so far this year. Now, a couple things before we show number one that I wanted to mention. First off, this does not include those bulk purchases of wholes, halves, and quarters. If we were to include those numbers, the half cow and the whole hog would be number one and number three, respectively. So all we're covering here is just the individual packaged items ready for retail sale and not those big bulk purchases that folks sometimes make. We do really well on those. We've sold a lot of them this year. Somebody comes up, they want to pack pork chops for dinner. We've got that packaged across the table, and there it goes. Everything that we sell is direct to consumer retail. We don't do any wholesale business, and we don't sell to any restaurants. We do have some bulk deals, but the lion's share of what we do is right across the farmer's market table or right here off the farm, customers buying individual items. So what's the number one item that we've sold so far this year here at Sheraton Park Farms, and it's ground beef. We have sold ground beef for $9.50 a pound this year. This is grass-fed, grass-finished. Once these animals come to our farm, no more grain. So this is grass-fed, grass-finished ground beef, and we do really well. Customers respond really well to our grass-fed ground beef. $9.50 a pound. Individually, we do some five pounds, some 10 pounds, and some 20-pound boxes. So far this year, total sales of ground beef, $5,302 worth of ground beef. So those are the top five. Add all those together. So far this year, just those five items. And we've got a catalog of about, gosh, 70 or 80 items that we sell. You know, everything from bratwurst and whole chickens and ground pork and sausages and all kinds of different stuff. But so far on just these five items this year, $21,528 in gross sales. So we've been very fortunate. It's been a good year. And we're just getting ready to enter into the fourth quarter. Markets are starting to slow down. I thought it would be a good time to kind of go back and sort of review and see where we were at with our sales and talk about what's selling and what's selling really, really well. So there you have it. I think that's about all. Like we always say, please keep us in your prayers. May God bless you and your families. And we'll see you on the next video. Thanks. Why don't we have one right. And let's get to know. Now, let's get to know. We'll see you on the next video. We'll see you on the next video. We'll be back in the next video. We'll see you on the next video. And we're back in the next video. Thank you.