What is Agribusiness? | UPLB BS Agribusiness Management & Entrepreneurship Program
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_96hrnsNlVw
People & Blogs
 Hey everyone! Welcome back to my channel. My name is Rika Janine and I make videos about college, business, and lifestyle. If you're new to my channel, please make sure to subscribe and hit the bell button down below. Today's video is all about the UPLBBS ABME program and from the past videos, I've mentioned that I'm currently taking up this course which I'll be talking about today. Since I did not take up senior high school, my course is still considered as BS Agribusiness Management which is for the old curriculum while the new curriculum or the K-12 graduates will already be taking up the BS ABME which stands for BS Agribusiness Management and Entrepreneurship program. Up until now, a lot of you are still requesting for me to create a video about my course. Probably the others are incoming freshmen from the UPLB batch 20 incoming BS ABME students who have no idea about what they're going to take up. I will discuss with you the things that I know of and the things that I have experienced within the two years that I'm taking up BS Agribusiness Management. To give you a background, here are the list of topics that we'll first discuss before we proceed to the in-depth discussion of what we do in our course. Next week, we'll be tackling about what we really do in class and what are the activities that a BS Agribusiness Management and Entrepreneurship student will be going through. So don't worry guys because even though I am still under the old curriculum for BS ABM, I will give you the new information that I can get for the BS ABME program. As far as I know, it's not just the title of the course that changed but also some of the subjects were removed and some were added as the major subjects. So we'll discuss again next week and watch out for that. Let us first discuss what the word Agribusiness means. According to industry.gov.ph, Agribusiness refers to agriculture-related activities that put farmers, processors, distributors, and consumers within a system that produces, processes, transports, markets, and distributes agricultural products. On the other hand, Edwards and Schultz, 2005, proposed that Agribusiness is a dynamic and systemic endeavor that serves consumers globally and locally through innovation and management of multiple value chains that deliver valued goods and services derived from sustainable orchestration of food, fiber, and natural resources. It's a bit technical definition especially for the ones who barely have an idea of what I've said. But in layman's terms, Agribusiness is agriculture plus business management combined. We are basically management and entrepreneurship students with a technical background on agriculture. You will notice that the word value has been repeated for several times earlier. It's because value addition is what Agribusiness are aiming for nowadays. If you don't get it, let me picture it out for you. For example, the Camote is made of Camote chips or even high-end sweet potato chips. If you'll notice, the target market of every product is different. Camote is sold on the street, the Camote chips are sold on bus stations or the chichirya. While high-end sweet potato chips are sold on the expensive grocery stores like Rustans, SNR, or Landers. The other ones are imported so it's more expensive. If you're only interested in taking up business management or marketing course, please do not be discouraged by the word agriculture. Because we Agribusiness managers or Agripreneurs have different responsibilities with agriculturists. BS agriculture on the other hand is more inclined into scientific research, farm production, animal science, crop science, soil science, dairy production, meat, and poultry. Agribusiness management is more focused on marketing and the business side of agricultural products, services, and industries. Now, let's talk about what the difference is Agribusiness versus business versus agricultural economics. Basically, Agribusiness is one type of business where they use agricultural raw materials. Agribusiness management is very focused on the businesses itself or the industry where it plays. What is business? Business is the wider... Agribusiness is the wider... It's only the type of businesses that are not related to agriculture like IT, communications, fashion, entertainment, music. While agricultural economics is more related to the economic side, the monetary policies, and the physical factors that affect the economy and the agricultural sector. Now, let's talk about the misconceptions about Agribusiness. First one, merely agricultural production through farming. Magtatanim ka lang ng palay. Magaalaga ka lang ng baboy. Yes, pwede kang magtanim, pwede kang magaalaga ng baboy. But it's not just that. Alam niyo ba na bago ka makapagsimula ng taniman ay dapat may sarili kang lupa? Or yung iba naman, nagre-rent sila. At malaking capital ang lupa. Usually, mga hasyendero or mga farmers na may mga cooperatives na kung saan nakakapagrenta sila ng lupa. Malaki rin ang capital ng pagsisimula ng isang animal farm. Ang isang baboy ay nagkakahalagang 8,000 to 12,000 pesos. While ang mga beef naman ay nag-range from 30,000 to 35,000 pataas. Depende pa yun sa laki, sa bigat, sa condition, sa breed, and sa edad. Kung ilang taon na o ilang months na yung pig, yung cattle, yung chicken. Yun, lahat yun pinag-aalalan namin. Another misconception is that agribusinesses are only big businesses. Baka nga yung iba, hindi kayo familiar na agribusinesses pala yun. Though, mas familiar tayo sa big agribusinesses like San Miguel, Century Pacific, or mga Del Monte, Jollibee, Gisson Farms, and marami pang iba. Halos lahat na magitan yung brands, supermarket that are food-related could be an agribusiness. But we should note that it's not just the big businesses who are part of the agribusiness industry. Yung mga nabibenta ng plants sa Instagram, or even mga restaurants na nagserve ng pagkain. Yung mga tourist destinations na nag-offer ng grapes picking or sunflower maize. Kahit yung mga nagtitinda sa palengke, naglalako ng gulay. Yung mga nagkakatay ng baboy, buko juice vendor, or yung mga nag-aangkat ng strawberries wula Baguio papuntang Manila. You name it. It's an unending list of businesses. And number three misconception is that agribusinesses are purely private sector. No, actually, maraming government agencies and non-government organizations who are working in the field of agribusiness. For example, maraming agribusiness managers ang kinakailangan, lalo na sa mga cooperatives in the provinces who do not have access to the market. The Philippines, being an agricultural country, is known to have a rich source of natural resources. Each province dito sa Pilipinas has its own produce. For example, in Mindoro, they are very known in terms of bigas, of calamansi, and other root crops. While in Cebu and Davao, they are widely known for their mangoes. So, the farmers usually forms a cooperative which is being led by agribusinessmen. That's one career. But nowadays, there are new ventures brought about by social entrepreneurs and ecological entrepreneurs. So, the businesses which are owned by social entrepreneurs or ecological entrepreneurs are not really profit-driven. Maybe they have an advocacy or they are supporting a group of farmers. They are helping them out to reach out to the market. And lastly, misconception number four is that they think that the work environment is only in the field or farm. What I said there was no, because there are many career opportunities that are being held to BS Agribusiness Management graduates. For example, we could go into accounting, management, human resource, finance, banking, sales, marketing, we could attend conferences abroad, we can do market research, we can be a lawmaker, a social worker, a politician, and work for the government. And we could also start our own businesses. Most agripreneurs who are still starting and who does not have their own farm are becoming middlemen. These startup agripreneurs are helping farmers to reach the market by transforming their products into different forms. So anyway, my point is that you're not just confined into a farm or field. And you are not also just confined inside the office. Although, of course, you can apply to other companies that are not agribusiness. Because we are still business management students and we can perform the tasks that other business management students do. Now, let me give you an example of the traditional versus the modern agribusinesses. On the left side, you can see flower shops in Damwa versus the online flower and fruit veggie bouquet delivery on the right. You can see gardens who are selling soil. While on the right, you can see shops in Lazada who are selling the seeds and soil. You can see a regular avocado being sold in public markets and groceries. And on the right, you can see a frozen avocado which has a longer shelf life. On this side is a picture of the chocolate tablea which is being sold for a lot of years now. As compared to the modern presentation of chocolate. This is an example of chili dark chocolate bars. That's it guys! I hope you have learned a lot. And I hope that I was able to encourage you to take this course. Again, if you haven't subscribed, please do so. And hit the bell button down below. You also like this video! Thanks for watching and I'll see you on the next one. Bye!