Cutting Hay With an IBEX Drum Mower and Compact Tractor
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_hnvFmVCHVU
Howto & Style
 welcome back to piney grove folks a very exciting day for me this process started many months ago talking to tractor tools direct and they provided us everything we need out here to be self-sufficient in making our own hay so we can't thank them enough all they've asked us to do is use their equipment i don't have a script i've had to learn this from the owner's manual just like you would last year i used what's called a sickle bar mower so a friend of mine lent me his john deere tractor and his sickle bar mower and his wheel rake and a baler similar to the one that tractor tools direct the ibex tx31 that they provided for us and we bailed our hay out here and we learned a lot but i've never used a drum mower before except to do a demonstration video and familiarize myself with the mower so today i'm going to go slow as i work through my mental checklist make sure i have it all set up correctly i bought a new top link because i found that the top link i've been using on this kaboda l3901 was at its full extension and the way a drum mower works it actually rides along the ground and you want the drums to be angled up a little bit so that the cutter blades don't hit the dirt so in order to do that you've got to extend your top link and my top link was no longer extendable so i got a new top link from tractor supply and i think i got everything set up i'm just going to tighten up the connections just do a a quick check this is a make sure i get the model right it is the frg 130 so this drum mower is made for compact tractors but i don't recommend you use it on anything less than a large frame compact tractor and by large frame if you're familiar with the kaboda i would say l series or bigger if you're familiar with john deere i would say three series or bigger just because this is a very heavy mower and also your tractor needs to have a lot of ground clearance because this mower is going to swing out and i might even have to adjust my three-point arms to kind of cheat and get it a little higher because you don't want it to dig in and if you don't have this ground clearance you're going to start off low with small tires and you're not going to be able to set it up properly and they have smaller mowers out there you can use on subcompact tractors so check them out we'll put a link down below check out all their mowing equipment and pat and marty out there they will help you out give them a call say man this is what i got going on i got 10 acres i want to mow i've got a john deere 10 series what do you recommend and they will set you up with the right hay package but we're going to use the kaboda to mow and likely use the summit tx25 to do our raking and then we'll probably use the summit to bale hay so those videos will be coming up in the next few days or the next couple weeks so be on the lookout for them but let me get this thing set up and then uh start my first row of cutting with a drum mower since the video i put out a couple months ago i haven't i haven't looked at this mower it's been sitting in the shed undercover and i just got to make sure that i remember everything that i'm supposed to do to set myself up for success so i know this here um is a travel lock so i've unlocked that and that lets the mower go up and down on this end like that so i've loosened that up this here is a travel lock so it doesn't go up and down but you want it to go up and down in the field so i take that travel lock off this is what you use to change the blades it's got brand new blades on it i've got the kickstand in the up position right here so now i got to fasten the breakaway so we'll hook this breakaway up i should just be able to swing the mower maybe let the three-point hitch down so that should fall right over top of that when i let this down now what this does is if you hit a post or a tree it'll break away right here it's it's it's hooked together like that with a spring and it'll just release that way you won't harm the mower probably going to scare you though if that ever happens if that ever breaks away i'm thinking that's going to be quite a bit of force if you want to know all about how this drum mower is put together and how it should um you put the blades on and all that check out my other video but a drum mower has this particular one i think has four four or five blades on the drum this drum actually rides on the ground tilted up as at an angle and it just goes along and cuts this grass throws it to the center so this one swirls that way and that one swirls that way all the grass goes to the center and this is also a conditioning mower so you see where these pieces of metal are angled and what they'll do is they'll take the grass clippings and kind of crisscross them behind the mower and leave you a windrow and that conditioned grass will dry quicker than if you just cut it and let it sit straight on the ground behind the drums they say fortune favors the bold so let's let her rip tater chip oh my i'm gonna go with super cool on that now it's not conditioning it because the grass isn't real tall here the grass will get taller as we go down to the pond but that's just really cool i'm fascinated fascinated by this thing so i put it in uh 540 pto so that's what it calls for and i've just got it riding on the ground there and it's not digging in at all it's cutting cleanly and i just can't wait to get to this thick grass up here i've done a few rows and before i forget i thought i would share some of my thoughts with you so as i suspected it doesn't windrow or condition very well with short grass but you're not going to make hay with short grass anyway this is our tallest grass right now and the conditioning part looks really good we'll get closer and talk about that but i want to talk about the mower itself for a second it's a heavy mower and that's a 39 horsepower tractor 32 horsepower at the pto because it's hydrostatic drive and it robs some of that engine horsepower and i actually stalled the tractor with the tractor at about 1500 rpms i stalled the tractor engaging the mower so i got to have the rpms up around 2000 so this uh this mower is no joke you see it's tilted we've talked about that already that's working out real good i'm not scalping anything got some good footage of the way that it cuts and also how much like especially when you're in short grass how much comes up over the front but when you're in tall grass it tends to stay underneath this is the wind rowing or conditioning effect and i'll get closer on that but i wanted to show you this because i was really working on how far away i got to keep my tractor tires from the new grass and this little mohawk here is for me putting the rear tires right against the grass here so you got to maintain about six to twelve inches i would say one foot will be perfect there's a little bit of overlap there with one foot so you'll lose efficiency but i think one foot away will keep you from leaving this mohawk because after you pick up all your hay you want your field to look good you don't want a bunch of mohawks there Nacht all right I got this little section mowed here behind me because I had some real tall grass there. So what I figure is when I rake, I can rake in kind of an L pattern and I should be able to get a long enough windrow so that I can get maybe one bale per pass. But let's take a look at the way that this mower cuts and talk about it for a minute. This is probably a good section here to talk about the conditioning of the mower. So earlier we talked about the mower had those fins on the side of the drum and the drums turn in towards each other. So all the grass is being collected and funneled towards the middle of the cutter and this is the outlet of the middle of the cutter. And all this grass is kind of stacked and when I say stacked, it's got like a row like this and then a row on top of it almost in like a V fashion. And it's not perfect because you got short grass, you got tall grass, you got different types of grasses and maybe a few weeds in here. So it's not going to be perfect. But when you look at the way that the sickle bar mower cut our hay last year, it cut it all down at one level and then it laid it down right there where it was growing and air could hit the top of it, but there's no way air could hit the bottom of it. So when I raked it, that's the first time air would have got the bottom of it. This is kind of stacked on top of each other, but it's stacked in such a fashion that there's little air pockets in there. And that's what conditioning is. Conditioning is taking the grass and putting it away so that it can dry better. I went through here, did the square section and still having a little bit of problem with my spacing. So I got a couple of Mohawks out here, but not too bad. Nothing to worry about. I'm getting most of the grass cut. But for the tractor itself, I wouldn't want less of a tractor with that model of disc mower. We already talked about the fact that I stalled out the tractor when I had the RPMs real low. And that's the way you want to engage your PTO. You want to engage it at a low RPM and then speed up your tractor. But for this mower, I got to have my RPMs around 2000. And then when I engage it, the tractor stutters a little bit. But then I get it up to 540 RPM on the implement and it has no problem cutting it all. Our heat index is like 105 or something today. It's very hot out here. So one thing you worry about when it's that hot is the health of your tractor. And PTO driven equipment tends to, you know, put a big drain on your tractor's engine. And especially a hydrostatic tractor already has a drain with a hydrostatic transmission. So I've been keeping an eye on the temperature of the tractor. No problem. Rock steady right in the center. I don't see a lot of big fuel consumption. And it's having no problem at any speed that I go, whether it's creeping or going as fast as it can go. It's a three speed hydrostatic transmission. And I've got it in the medium or the middle gear. And I can go as fast as I want in this thick grass. And it's not bogging the tractor down at all. So once you get it underway, you're not bogging down the tractor. But I just don't think a 25 horsepower tractor could handle this mower. And if you have experience with that, put a comment down below. You know, we all learn together. People watch our videos and read the comments. So if you know better, if you have a setup that works really good with a 25 horsepower tractor, which a lot of people have, it's very popular, then for a cutter, I'm talking about the cutter. I'm not talking about the hay baler or the rake. But if you have that type of experience, put a comment down below so that other people can learn too. And they can make a decision on what equipment they need to buy to cut their hay with their tractor. But so far, this Ibex mower is performing flawlessly. And it just has no problem when it gets in thick stuff. It just mows it down. Let me get back on the tractor. I got to knock out one more section. And then I'll leave you with some closing thoughts. That's what it looks like after it's mowed. You can see I got a couple mohawks out there. I'm still learning how to keep my distance away from the road that I've already cut. But with any piece of equipment, farm equipment, lawnmower, whatever, there's a learning curve. And you just can't expect to get on something new or use something new behind your tractor that you've never used before and get it perfectly right the first time. But I'm a lot more comfortable now than I was at the beginning of this video. I feel like I understand how it's supposed to work, what I can and what I can't do with it. Definitely wear safety glasses. I'm not talking sunglasses or something cheap, but wear safety glasses that are impact resistant because I tend to look back a lot. I'm always wanting to check on my equipment, just make sure that everything's still the way it's supposed to be. It's cutting the way it's supposed to be. And some people are more confident than me and they will just go. I mean, Deb is out there on the zero turn right now. She just goes. She's got her music on and she just goes. But not me. I'm always looking back. And because I'm always looking back and one of those mower blades is slinging towards you, if you hit an anthill, maybe you have mole hills or aardvark hills or whatever or rocks, those things come at you. And I hit an anthill and I had stuff pepper my face, but I had my glasses on. But other than that, a great day of mowing. I feel much more comfortable now. Shout out to Tractor Tools Direct for providing all the haying equipment out here on Piney Grove. Check them out. There'll be links down below. But until next time, y'all take care out there. And remember, life's short. Tractor hard. I was just sitting here reviewing what I just said. And I said aardvark. I don't even know where aardvarks are. I meant armadillo.