Diseases in Peanut Crops
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_iMMbj-BZnw
Science & Technology
 Hi, my name is Bob Kimmerite. I'm an extension plant pathologist with the University of Georgia. My job is to help growers with the management of diseases and nematodes that affect their peanut crop. There are really three to four major diseases that our growers have to work with. If you're fighting diseases, if you're growing peanuts, you're going to fight them. One of them would be white mold disease. As you can see in this, I'm holding up, not many peanuts. It's hard to see the white mold, but what was there has largely been taken by white mold or southern stem rot, a fungal disease. Another very important disease we have is tomato spider wolf virus. Tomato spider wolf virus has a number of different symptoms, but one of the most demanding and one of the most drastic is the stunting that happens for the peanut plant. Unfortunately for the growers, the above ground stunting results in smaller pods, stunted pods, smaller pod yield, and in fact, sometimes zero pod yield. So tomato spider wolf virus, which is caused by a virus, obviously. The white mold or stem rod caused by a fungus. And then another disease that every grower has to face in Georgia is leaf spot. We have two leaf spot diseases, early leaf spot and late leaf spot. They're both caused by fungi. Both require season-long management with fungicides or resistant varieties in order to manage and minimize losses associated with them. I hope this has been helpful to peanut growers, but also to those who aren't familiar with the peanut crop. Diseases are an important component of management and also the cost of production. I hope this has been informational to you. And remember, through production guides and also working with the University of Georgia Cooperative Extension or UGA Extension, you can get lots of answers as far as how to manage the crop and how to make better yields and better profitability. This Dynamics Editor has anarse in the utility stage. It's got to be a number of different indecisive