Hay : This Is How We Do It
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_JSaI21MazM
People & Blogs
 oh shoot hey y'all well it's october the second we are a few days into our calving season and we have a few calves on the ground. But it's also time for us to finish up our hay season for the year. So I'm standing in front of one of our smaller fields that my husband has just started cutting. It does not look great even though we do have a great stand of Johnson grass. But we need to clean these fields up and get done. So I want to take you through the process of how we cut Ted rake and bail our hay. Here we go. And that's my boy cutting hay for the very first time. Riding with his dad. Awesome. Go Wesley go. And this is the good stuff y'all. This is the good stuff. I always love the way hay looks when it's first cut. I'm just going to follow that little blue tractor and show you some Tedding. So we used to use the big tractor but he acquired this little tractor last year and it works perfect for this. So for three days of its life, its first three days of life, if this calf is not nursing, it's laying under this tractor. And I really hate to break its little heart, but I'm about to have to go rake. And I'm going to need my tractor back little buddy. So the time has come for the best, most important part of the hay making process, which is raking and bailing. Raking because it's my job. And because if you don't rake right, then you don't have good bales. And in the end, that's like the most important thing. So the pressure's on today. My ride has new, bigger, wider tires. I haven't driven it yet. And the pressure is on because I'm not going to be able to turn as tight as I usually do. And sometimes I've been known to turn too tight anyway. And you know, like sometimes blow hoses and like hit the rake and stuff. So today I can't do that or I'm going to royally mess something up. So here's hoping that I don't royally mess something up. We'll see. Going back home because I forgot the radios. Really, have you ever seen such a fine truck as this? It's pretty awesome. It's even got the whole heartbeat, the whole heartbeat of America thing going on. Yep. Radios and tea. We can now go bail hay. Sorry, Bonnie, you got to stay here. The sky's clouding up, which is not good for making hay. And I think little bit thinks there's a storm coming. Anyway, here we go as I bump my head. It's been a while. Hopefully I remember how. First things first. Air on. It's really hot today, y'all. Like 80, 80 something. The left hand driving is starting to drive. I didn't know that I was working on the field. So I'm not going to be so busy. So, you know, I'm not going to be so busy. So, I'm not going to be so busy. Woo! Tight turn. I missed a little bit of hay. But I didn't run into my race with my big new tires. And that is more important. You can tell we're not going in straight lines yet. I make two laps around the field and then I start pulling straight ropes. And so, with these new tires, I'm going extra slow around the corner. And so far, so good. I'm going to be so busy. But I can feel the stress. I can feel the stress. In my body with these tires today, I just don't want to mess them up. Because if I mess up, it's not going to be bad. And it's too hot. It's too hot for a big mess. It ugly works. And it's just too hot. So, the goal is to stay in the tractor, pull in the brake, and not plug anything. And it's too hot. And it's too hot. So, now, I'm going to start pulling straight. Right. Ah! But the important thing to do is to not be trying to video yourself and remember to turn the brake on when you make the turn. Take two. Hello, can you hear me? I think I'll just go out right here. Do you want me to go to the next field? We're going to Sally's first. Okay. All right. This is not, this is not my favorite. Sally's. So, every farm around here is named after somebody, like the person we called it from. This is a, this is a little farm. This is a little piece of land that we don't own or rent. She just lets us take hay off of it. But I have to drive down this Virginia pig path. It's a big path. Paved pig path. And I hate it. Because it's narrow. Not snarrow, but narrow. And if there's any traffic, it just, it makes me nervous. Anyway, here we go. To Sally. To Sally. Another fun part. And this little piece that's next to somebody's house. is attempting not to run into the telephone poles. Oh, shoot. Okay. Well, I did. My tire just hit the side of the race. But nothing broke. What is he doing? Oh my gosh. He constantly makes fun of me for being on the phone. Oh. I thought he was talking to somebody. He's pretending like he's taking a picture of me. I thought I called him. Dang. I thought it was, you made me know. I leave your eyes. Yeah. I thought I was going to get started. into my career leben my doctor's voice is short. And that is all she wrote. With one more deal we might do, we might not do. Miss on what it looks like. That's it for today. Cookie at Curhey 2018. Nothing broke. Just left a little rubber on the rake. That's a big deal. I do love my rake. One year. Wow. That's bad. One year with my self-folding rake. Would not trade it. So don't ask. Anyway. Bye. There we go. Well. That's a wrap. Pun most definitely intended. I think I'll go wash my hands now. And if I think about it, I'll come out here and try to clean my steering wheel sometime. Hey 18. In the books. Feels good. Feels good. Always feels good. to finish one season. And roll right into the next. And that was another amazing pun. Ooh. Ooh. todas