Gardener's Almanac: May 31 - Planting in Gravel Culture
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_rXCEpBUoTQ
Education
 Hello and welcome to the Scott Arboretum of Swarthmore College. My name is Adam Gloss. I'm a garden supervisor here on campus. So today we're going to talk a little bit about gravel culture. So if you've ever driven through the town of Swarthmore, which is just adjacent to campus, we maintain some of the gardens right here at the roundabout. So with the construction of the inn, they changed this intersection quite a bit and they developed this roundabout, which presented a bit of a design challenge for us here at campus. We wanted it to look beautiful, but we wanted it also to be as low maintenance as possible. So we installed some trees and shrubs, but then felt that it didn't really have enough punch. So we researched different ways that we could create a really beautiful experience, but without adding a lot of maintenance. And what we discovered was this system, this type of planting system called gravel culture, which our mentor, Cassian Schmidt in Germany, had been developed and researched and trialed for many, many years. So basically the system is you're planting hardy perennials that can handle, you know, some heat and some drought. And what that really does is it encourages the root systems to go deep. So I back up a little bit and we can kind of talk about the structure of it. So you take off about six inches of the topsoil and then you add about three inches of gravel and you actually till that in. So what that's doing is creating a type of soil that's really well drained and it's conducive for plants that can handle kind of tough drought like situation. So then after you till that gravel in, you add another three inches of this tumbled granite on top of that. So really what that's doing is acting as your mulch, and it's a very, very dry mulch. So any weed seeds that happen to blow in here and settle into the gravel, it's so dry that they can't germinate. So it basically eliminates weeding. And if the system is installed properly, it really does a very, very thorough job of eliminating weed pressure and having to come in here and weed. But as you can imagine, getting this established can be a little bit of a challenge because of the really dry situation. And plant selection is super important because you want, like I mentioned earlier, those roots to go really deep into the soil so that they can absorb moisture from deep in the soil and that, you know, they're able to survive in this type of system. So this type of environment really lends itself to a lot of our Native American prairie plants that send their roots really deep in the soil so that they can take advantage of the moisture deep into the soil. And we'll talk a little bit about plant selection in a bit, but I wanted to demonstrate how we plant in this type of system. It's a little bit different than how you would in a normal garden bed. So this bed here has been planted, oh, I'd say this is its third growing season. And we decided that we needed a little bit more late season color, so late summer color, and I wanted to add a little bit more diversity to the bed as well. So today we're going to be planting Helianthus happy days. And one thing that we've found is that it's really important that you choose the correct size of plant when you plant this. We found that gallon sizes is almost a little too big and plug size is too small. So gallon size, you know, it's a fairly established plant already. It's been grown on the nursery for quite a bit, so it's used to those kind of lush situations in the nursery. And with landscape plugs, we found that they were too small. In this type of system, they dry out too quickly. And unfortunately, a lot of times we lost a lot of plugs. So we have found that quart size really is ideal. And these actually were grown in quarts, but they were sent to us bare root, all the soil was taken off, which is actually helpful in our planting system. Because a lot of times when you get plants that are potted from a nursery, they have weed seeds at the top of the root ball. So we really want to eliminate as much of that weed seed or any weeds that may be present in the pot as possible. Because if you leave some soil on there, they can grow and produce seeds and spread around. And it's also a place for other weed seeds to blow in in germinate. So when you're planting, we pretty much bare root these type of plants. We'll leave a little bit of soil on there for some water absorption. But for the most part, we take all the soil off of them. So that two things, we aren't introducing weed seed. And we're also encouraging the plant's root system to grow down into that aggregate soil that we've created. So I'm going to show you how do we plant. And it is a little bit of a different type of planting because of that three inches of gravel at the surface. So we really want the roots of this cleaned off root ball to touch or go into that tilled type of soil that I showed you earlier. So you can see we've got a generous three inches of soil of gravel on the top. And then I don't know if you can see in the bottom of the hole, we're starting to hit some of the soil layer. So that's that soil gravel mixture. And when we plant these, we really want the roots of the plants to be in contact with that soil mixture. So generally speaking, you have to plant the plants a little bit deep. Normally in a garden situation, you would plant the plant level, you know, the where the roots come off the stem, you would plant them level with the top of the ground. But because of this type of system, you have to plant the plants a little bit deep so that the roots are touching that soil mixture that I mentioned earlier. So that's kind of all there is to it for the planting. And then we backfill with that gravel. So we are burying the crown a little bit, but you can see we've got all kinds of growth happening here above the gravel. So the plant will survive and will continue to grow. And as you can imagine, in this type of system, the gravel gets pretty warm, it drains very well. So for the first year, watering is super important. It's crucial that you water every two to three days so that you're making sure that those plants roots are always staying hydrated and that the plant is going to survive the first initial establishment period. So give it a good soak. And we're good to go. Watch it grow. I mentioned plant selection earlier. So obviously we want to pick plants that can handle dry situations. So I just wanted to point out some of the non-native types versus the native types that we have chosen. So generally speaking, salvia can do very, very well in dry garden situations. So this one is called Salvia Blauhugel or Blue Hill. So that one's done really, really well for us. That's a non-native selection. You know, with the butterfly craze being all abuzz lately, we wanted to add some butterfly plants in here as well. So this is Asclepias tuberosa here, the orange flower, and that's a native. The butterflies definitely love it and it does really, really well for us in this type of system. The large plant behind it is Baptisia lemon meringue, and that is just living and loving this situation. It's a native prairie perennial. It can get quite large and shrubby as you can see, but it has done extremely, extremely well for us in this system. Another native I can point out, this is Coreopsis or tick seed. This variety is called Zagreb. Again, also done really, really well for us here in the gravel culture. And then coming on a little bit later in the season, we'll have some of the structural plants that will come on through and get a little taller in the landscape bed here. So add little punctuation marks in the landscape as well. So this is a little blue stem here. You know, kind of just fills in some space now, but as the fall season comes on, it'll take on some purple and red tones and add a little bit of fall interest as well. Thank you for joining us today for the Gardener's Almanac series. And we hope that you join us on June 7th when campus reopens to the general public. So come on down, check us out, and if you're feeling adventurous, come down to the roundabout and check out the gravel culture.