TESTING the IBEX Mini Hay Baler
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_S7uysfxofI
Howto & Style
 Scorch Scorch Shinho Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, mistake number one, but it was gobbling the hay up. I forgot to turn the battery on. Did it beep in there? No. How did you know it was ready then? I was watching it. Because I didn't hear it beep. No, I didn't. I forgot to turn the battery on. Well, number one, turn the battery on. I forgot to turn the battery on. I forgot to turn the battery on. Look. What? THE AALY dijits We'll be right back. Sounds like a Norоしました Well guys... its a little bit of a learning curve trying to keep it because you got such a small area on the baler for your windrow i'm probably going to come back after i do the whole field i'm probably going to come back and re-rake it because i don't want to lose all this hay uh from having too wide of a windrow but uh man does it work great it works awesome man and in the cab i hear it fine it's not a problem we had a little trouble in the beginning i forgot to turn the battery on i just happened to be looking back at it and i saw the arm go i said whoa i forgot the battery but uh man that's what they weigh uh 40 or 50 pounds maybe about like a regular square bale probably 50 pounds that is awesome here let me see if i can pick it up i just make it on the sides yeah oh yeah i don't know if it weighs 50. it may not weigh 50 maybe 40. i'd say 30 to 40. about 40. probably about 40. 45 to 30. i don't know it's not that heavy it's not about 30 maybe yeah i think it's uh it's man you did what four five one two three four in what oh just a few minutes 15 minutes or less yeah and i'm getting low just going really slow because i'm trying to learn you know and yeah i couldn't walk fast in this heat yeah and i didn't want one to run along there trying to do it you know so i was like let's just go really really slow but uh yeah i cut this three days ago the grass is already starting to grow back i told us this we gotta hurry up the grass is gonna grow up you know but uh it's actually ready to bail i think uh it feels like it's straw you know breakable enough and yeah because i mean i my moisture meter i had it in the barn and fertilizer leaked down on the top of it and ruined my moisture meter that i tested so i had to go an old timey way uh you know listen to it it's dry it should crackle and i take the stalks and they break and they crackle and they crackle so i was like okay you know we're we're there but i think i'm gonna let it lay tonight it's not supposed to rain tomorrow uh and then tomorrow about 10 o'clock i'm gonna come out here and go ahead and just bail the whole field because i actually have another field over here that i just raked i cut it a day later i just got through raking it this is actually this whole field is ready and then you got in front of the camp then i have in front of the camp i got a whole field out there ready i don't know how many bales we're going to get so let's see we got a guess we got two bales per row right approximately approximately so we got one two three four i'm gonna say you're gonna get about 50. i'm gonna say 50. i'm gonna say 70. you think you're gonna get 70. this is pretty heavy i'm gonna say 50. i'm gonna say 70. i think we'll get 70 to 75 bales off of it and that's good hay it's beautiful hay that is i tell you what not sprayed with anything no chemicals wind is blowing isn't that awesome 80 something degrees out here uh i couldn't ask for better beautiful hay balen weather the only problem i had when i was bailing when i was raking it with the rake when the rake would pick the hay up to roll it over the wind is blowing so hard it would catch it and throw it over the rake and that's the reason it doesn't look very good it's in clumps because it would get hung up on the rake with the wind blowing and it wouldn't come off of the rake you know so uh unless you but you see how it was sucking it up in there it is awesome man it was doing a great job i think like i said once i bail the whole field the rake is still on the tractor i'm going to come back and where i missed you know because it was too wide i'm going to re-rake it right quick because it don't take no time to rake it you got all the equipment on different tractors i got everything on a different piece of equipment on a different tractor so i can i can fail it turn around rake it rebuild you know what's left and i shouldn't have anything left in the field it's just be a pretty green field then we're going to go get fertilized and lime we're going to and lime and we're going to fertilize and lime the pool out of it and hope hope we get a rain after that so uh but anyway guys check out the tx-51 hay rake from ibex from ibex and the tx-31 hay baler this is a mini baler guys i already love this tools direct uh tools right tractor tools direct thank you so much for carrying these uh guys these are not made in china okay uh my understanding is they're made in italy and that's not a bad thing i wish it was american made but it's not but everything worked good the uh i mean all of it all the adjustments here worked fine everything worked good so fixing to call it an evening go get something to eat and we'll see you tomorrow when we start baling more hay not too bad we're gonna bring the big big dog to get it in there three will work our mini hay we only did four so we're gonna have to have a trailer to pick up because kumoda don't hold but three and danny could hold one yeah i don't know what's the best way to stack them uh we've seen them both ways i've seen them yeah i've seen them both ways i know they uh i filled up one of the holes i know that uh uh i've seen round bales get stacked this away i'm just not sure you it's like if you lay them down it'll make them egg shaped i mean uh flat you know so i'm thinking maybe on their end this is subject to change tomorrow it's about figuring out which way it holds the most looks like it's going to be approximately five that way uh you can put one more yeah probably so five so it won't be right on the edge oh this is our new hay barn guys uh i don't know if we showed this or not i uh i don't think we have don't think we have i had a company deliver this to me i actually had ordered one a lot larger but as we was driving off the lot i saw this one sitting out there with 10 marked off of it and it was only like four foot one way and two foot the other way shorter and i'm like you know what and they would deliver this one the next day day so i had to wait what four to six weeks to have it built i said you know what i called the guy back i said council the other order load that one up send it the next day so uh we got this here now the it already had all the wood and everything you just put a floor in i uh uh me and mr chris uh we filled it in with clay gravel underneath it mr tim worked with me on some pallets to go underneath it i went and got what are the pallets made out of plastic okay plastic pallet pallets no wood then we i went and got treated plywood and i screwed it down across the top of everything in there now there's a two by four there's a there's a plastic pallet a two by four a plastic pallet a two by four because the plastic pallets are 43 inches wide so i was able to put a two by four in between all them and screw the plywood down worked out fantastic and anderson enterprises builds them like this with these boards around them for horse barns this is a horse barns what it originally is but i saw the potential to turn it into a hay barn and in the future i mean let me show you something in the future this is what i'm thinking in the future if i need to i can come right here and come off of the back with the same pitch as this roof and come out here another 12 foot and put posts and i can add on to the roof out here and i can fix a place where if i want to take the metal off the back of this it's already got the lumber on the inside of it i can leave the hay in it but i can fix me a way to fix me a hay stall on the back so i can throw my hay over into the cows right there and instead of taking it all the way to the field still taking it out in the field and all this kind of stuff because i can actually cut a hole right in the center of this back back here and make me a way to get in and out of that thing and put me a gate there and fix it where uh we can feed the cows hay out of this underneath a roof so that we don't have the hay out in the field like right out yonder where they're wasting probably 25 bales to ever one big round bale you know they waste a lot of it so i'm trying to cut down on waste here at pecan grove miss wanda told me said we gotta get out of the sun we gotta go get the shade so we're underneath the big spanish oaks here well he was in a cab tractor with ac while i'm out walking and following a tractor in the sun y'all see that pretty bright sky pretty bright sun not a cloud in the sky harley and he was going but it ain't been that long i said follow a tractor out in the sun all right thank you guys we're gonna grow