Best Cash Crops: Uncovering the Most Profitable Crops to Grow and Sell
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_tJcGOSIJGg
Education
 A small farm can bring in revenue through various channels, from livestock to educational programs. However, growing and selling crops are generally at the top of the list. If you're looking for the best cash crops to add to your farming operation, here are several profitable crops to consider. Whether you're looking for a lucrative cash crop to add to an existing farm business, or trying to build an agricultural business from scratch, here are some profitable plants to consider. Number 1. Goji Berries Goji berry plants are easy to grow, and each one can get up to 13 feet tall, leaving lots of berries to pick. If you're interested in planting goji shrubs, they can easily be sold to grocery stores, restaurants, and food brands for use in high-end snacks and dishes. Number 2. Oyster Mushrooms Gourmet mushrooms like oyster mushrooms are often used in expensive dishes, but they also grow quickly and are quite inexpensive to produce. Number 3. Microgreens Microgreens like arugula and other leafy green vegetables don't require much space to grow, and they're fairly easy to keep alive in various climates. Number 4. Almonds Almonds are popular in everything from trail mix to milk alternatives. Once almond trees are established, they are quite hardy and can produce a high yield in the right climate. However, they can take a while to get going. So look at this as more of a long-term investment. Number 5. Coconuts Coconuts are among the most profitable crops in the tropical plant family. Those in warm climates can start these plants without many resources and then grow them into large trees that yield many coconuts. Number 6. Ginseng Growing ginseng root can be profitable, as it is used in various therapeutic and supplement products. It can take years to mature this plant enough to sell the roots, but you can sell seedlings in the meantime. Number 7. Cherry Tomatoes Cherry tomatoes are the smallest items in the tomato family, meaning they grow quickly and easily. Tomato plants easily pop up year after year and are used in various dishes. Number 8. Garlic Garlic is a small plant that doesn't require much space or resources. It's also used in tons of dishes, and gourmet garlic can demand a high price tag. Number 9. Saffron Saffron is one of the most expensive culinary herb products on the market. It takes some startup money to grow these plants. But eventually, the established plants can bring in high profits each year. Number 10. Basil Basil is another herb that is prominent in many dishes. It's small and easy to get started. You don't even need a large outdoor garden to get started. So that's it for today. If you like this video, then please hit the like and subscribe button for more videos. Thanks for watching.