Preview of Eugene and Sherri Nieman Online Farm Retirement Auction Tuesday - Nashua IA
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a1cp13At15A
Entertainment
 Hi Greg, this is Jim Huff here with Sullivan Auctioneer near Nashua, Iowa on the Gene and Sherry Neiman Farm. I want you to direct a little attention to their upcoming auction, which is Tuesday, November 17th. It starts at 10 a.m. and is an online-only auction. Some of the highlights on their auction coming up is this very nice John Deere 7330 tractor. It does sell complete with a John Deere H360 loader. This tractor has just a little over a thousand hours on it. It's a Gold Key tractor. Gene bought that brand new down in Waterloo, Iowa in Washington being built. And it's a very nice tractor. All of Gene's equipment, including his John Deere 7830, his John Deere 2755 tractor, and his John Deere 6620 combine were purchased new. And all these units are serviced and ready to go, Greg. Folks, again, this auction is Tuesday, November 17th, beginning at 10 a.m. The items are located near Nashua, Iowa. For all information regarding this auction, go to SullivanAuctioneers.com. And, Greg, as always, thanks for what you do for Sullivan Auctioneers and the entire ag industry. And, folks, be sure and be safe out there, and take care. Thank you. Hey, Machinery Pete here, folks. I want to thank my good friend Jim Huff with Sullivan Auctioneers for that video preview, again, of the Eugene and Sherry Neiman Farm Retirement Online-Only auction this Tuesday, November 17th, in Nashua, Iowa. And I'm telling you what, some beautiful one-owner equipment on this sale, like Jim was saying. Here's another picture of that 2012 John Deere 7330 premium tractor with an H360 loader. 1,066 hours on it. And like Jim was saying, this was Gene's Gold Key tractor. Just a beautiful rig. And how about this one, folks? The 2010 John Deere 7830, 1,260 hours on this. Boy, I've seen so much buying interest on these tractors in that give or take 10-year-old range with low hours, exactly like this one. Again, one owner. And then you move along down the line, the 1990 model John Deere 2755 with a loader, open station, 4,915 hours. Again, a lot of love for the 55 series out there. So to find a one-owner, 30-year-old model like this in such a condition, pretty rare. And then the combine, always fun to see these sweet 6620s. This is the 84 model. Gene bought it new in 86. Of course, the 80s sales of new equipment were pretty slow there in the mid-80s. And total hours on it, I think, 3,255 hours. So again, the online sale is Tuesday, November 17th. As Jim said, check out Sullivan Auctioneers for all the information. And one more item I wanted to highlight, because I'm the great-grandson of a blacksmith from northwest North Dakota. How about this Trenton 100-pound anvil? I see the online bid on it this morning on Saturday was already up to $350. So always fun to see what these anvils bring. But again, online bidding on all this stuff. And for more information, again, go to SullivanAuctioneers.com. Tons of great pictures on the items for sale. Link to the online bidding and also the sale bill here with more information. So Neiman Online Farm Auction for Gene and Sherry Neiman, Tuesday, November 17th. SullivanAuctioneers.com. Your next piece of equipment is on MachineryPete.com. Search equipment from dealerships across the country to find what you're looking for. Only on MachineryPete.com. See ya. Thank you.