Starting Sweet Corn seeds indoors
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a4w8_M5uHag
Howto & Style
 Hi it's John. I'm just planting some sweetcorn. I bought several packets and this is the one I'm going to plant today. There we go, it's Unwinds sweetcorn super sweet F1 hybrid. On the pack here it says pack to year ending 12-14. So it's alright it's in date. Best before 2016. Approximate seeds 35. Well there was only 28. I mean that is bad. If I was selling stuff I would always make sure there was more than what was said. I'm not sure I might contact them and tell them there was only 28 seeds. But one of the things I forgot to do when you're in the shop and you're buying a packet of seeds and it says just check, you can just check, you can feel how many there are and if it doesn't feel like there's 28 in there or if there's 35 in there, don't buy it. Yeah, but I forgot to do that on this one. Whether they would send me another pack I don't know. Anyway I've got 28 and I've got these containers all fitted up with soil. It's just, I'm not quite sure what soil it is, I just found it outside. I don't think you need very special soil for sweet corn. Just the warmth really. I've got a pot here to put any objects of stones and things I find. So I'm going to put one in each pot. Erm, and it says half an inch deep. Erm, so this has got 12 so that's, er, just popping them in. And what they need, they need warmth. So they need to be over 60 degrees to be erm, to germinate. Erm, that's the main thing they need. And then of course they need to be out in the best of the summer weather. They need the sunshine, as the Kellogg's Corn Flakes advert says they need 100 days of sunshine. Well, sometimes we get a nice lot of sunshine and sometimes we don't. Erm, but if you get good year you can get lots of sweet corn. And any surplus will be very useful for feeding the chickens. So, that's my thinking. Last year I grew some sweet corn and just some odd bits of maize that I had about. But er, I've brought quite a lot of seeds this time so it should all be sweet cornable. You know, edible. Because the maize can be a bit bitter or not sweet. With sweet corn it says you've got to plant the plants about 15 inches apart. That's quite a lot. And er, and plant them in a block so they fertilise one another. And it also says that you shouldn't plant other sweet corn by it. So, erm, because you get cross pollination. I don't, did that matter? I don't know. Anyway, I'd love to see. I'm not quite sure whereabouts I'm going to plant it yet. But er, it is a lovely thing to have in the garden because, well, you can just eat it and eat it, can't you? And children like it as well, so Hanlees will like it. She stays with us. And er, there we go. If I do write to Unwins about Fern being 28 seeds I can put a link in to this video. Erm, I don't know whether that would prove that there were only 28. I'm not going to, I'll just put this one in somewhere. But er, that would prove something. Do you think I'm mean? Am I mean? I think it's a matter of principle. I mean, last year I bought some other Unwins seeds. And there was supposed to be about 6 Swamneck gourds in the packet. And seeds. And there was only 2. And er, I didn't send 2 of them. Then I sent 2, then I bought another packet and there was about 12 in there. I mean, what it suggests to me is that their workers just aren't interested in getting the right amount of seeds in the packet. Which doesn't sound very good to me. Anyway, that's got them in there. I've got them in er, so they're 12 in each. I've got them in 24 so I may have doubled up the seeds in a couple. There we go. Just hope that they grow. I think, I think within about 10 days they should be showing some signs. Oh, I think 10 days they definitely will be. Erm, and I'll do an update then. Long time. Unwins Sweetcorn. And if I do send to them, I'll be able to tell you what their response was. OK, bye for now. while we're одном to make them. Facebook in the world. Check off the link and see some signs or names. Hello, everybody. Wait, not too long till.