Edaphic Factors Affecting Agricultural production | Agricultural Science | SS2
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a5q4iG3-1ac
Education
 Music When I was little, I didn't know that the type of soil I used to plant mattered. This was why I went to a construction site one day, packed some sand and then proceeded to plant. Little me kept adding water and praying for a miracle, but of course nothing grew. I just packed sand. Funny right? Well, it's also funny when you don't know that there are edific factors that contribute to agricultural production. Edific factors are factors related to the soil and they include soil type, soil pH, soil texture, soil structure, soil facility and topography. Today we'll be looking at each of these factors. Soil pH is the degree of acidity or alkalinity in the soil. It affects the availability of soil nutrients in the plant and also affects the growth of plants. It also affects the presence of microorganisms and causes toxicity to plants and animals in the soil. The soil texture determines the type of soil in an area. It could also determine the level of soil fertility and the type of crops to be grown. It also determines the leaching and erosion of the soil. Soil structure is another factor to be considered. It is concerned with the facility of the soil and determines the water holding capacity of the soil. It can also determine the amount of soil organisms in addition to the level of soil aeration and percolation. The topography of the soil is the shape of the land in relation to the underlying rocks of the earth's surface. A steep, gentle slope encourages soil erosion. It may also encourage the weathering of rocks. And even a flat slope can lead to the accumulation of soil and a better site for intensive farming. Soil fertility is an edific factor that determines the outcome of your farming efforts. Fatal soils aid the production of both cash and fruit crops. They minimize the use of fertilizer and lead to a multiplication of beneficial soil organisms, thereby reducing cost of production. Don't be likely to me. Ensure you remember how important the soil type is. There are three basic types of soil which are the loamy, sandy and clay soils. Loamy soil is the best for agriculture. Sandy soil does not contain enough nutrients and in addition encourages leaching. Clay soil on the other hand encourages water logging. We hope you enjoyed this lesson. We'll see you in the next one.