The ONLY Way To Weed Pinot Noir Grapes With A Compact Tractor
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a6ESrs9abt4
Education
 So what you're seeing is growth since the February burndown. So when we did this row right here we were doing a row that had not been cultivated since last season and this is the result. I'm really really happy. Hello my name is John Raspberry and we're here in Sherwood, Oregon. I'm the owner of Domain Gradium Vineyard. We have the two original varietals that really made Oregon famous for Pinot Noir. We have the Vadenville and we have the French Cologne Pomard. There are seven areas in the world you can grow Pinot Noir commercially. We are one of them. In 2005 this whole area was designated an American Vinicultural Area. So that allows us to grow the wine grape on a certified, in a certified area for grape growing. Because of glacier actions, you know, thousands of years ago we find here in Oregon about seven different major soil types. And we just happen to be on a hill here where we have this red clay soil which does very well. And this is really what the original Pinots were grown out of. The original Pinots were grown out of. The original Pinots were grown out of. the presidenteCreole of the in terms of the hydraulic system on the tractor, the weight of the tractor, and also in terms of siting. And so after some research I came across Tillmore. I was very intrigued by the adaptive cultivator system. When I saw this I immediately was excited. And I was very excited about just how it interacts with the vines, the trunks of the vines, and how it really helps to lessen the damage to the plant as you go through the road. So this is a two-year plant and there's no evidence of damage. With the cutouts in the dynamic wheel, you know, there's more probability you're going to miss than hit. But even on the few hits, I've noticed that, you know, the durometer of that plastic is such that it's giving and the plant's giving. So in terms of, you know, my concern with the damage to the plant, a young plant, it's just not there, it's not warranted. So what this equipment allowed me to do is to mount on an existing compact tractor, not a specialty tractor, and it allowed me everything that I knew I needed in order to have good siding. As I'm going down the row, I'm focused on steering a course as well as minimizing damage to my plants. And the side mount gives me just perfect visibility of both. I can, I can literally set a gaze as I'm traveling down the road that achieves both speed, direction, and also plant interaction. It's really, really a perfect position to have the cultivator on a side mount. When weете, we talked