Cattle Ration Formulation
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aaC0QP_7KXs
Education
 Hello, my name is Jared Maracek and I am a Ruman Nutrition grad student at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln. A properly formulated ration supplies adequate amounts of all nutrients to allow cattle to achieve a desired level of production. In the case of this video, we are going to formulate rations for your 4-H or FFA steer to gain 1.5, 2, and 3 pounds per day. We are going to create these rations using brome hay, alfalfa hay, distiller grains, corn, corn silage, and a supplement. The supplement is an ionophore that favorably alters rumino-microbial fermentation and activity that allows the animal to utilize dietary energy and protein more effectively. Two examples of ionophores are Bovotec and Rumensin. Minerals are usually included in the supplement. You may need to offer salt free choice in the form of a salt block. All these diets were formulated on a dry matter basis but then were converted to an as-fed basis. As-fed is the actual amount of feedstuff that you will feed your steer. Due to limited space, the following diets were made as half the total ration. These rations are only created for example purpose. This is due to the variability of the energy content within forages and other feed ingredients. With this first ration, we are going to target an average daily gain of 1.5 pounds per day for a 500 pound steer. If we are going to make a complete ration, we would need to use 11 pounds of Brome Hay, 3 pounds of Distiller Grains, and 0.25 pounds of the supplement which includes the minerals, vitamins, and ionophore. Before this video, we are going to use 5.5 pounds of the Brome Hay, 1.5 pounds of Distiller Grains, and 0.125 pounds of the supplement for the minerals, vitamins, ionophore. When you mix this diet together, we need to make sure that it is evenly mixed and that the ingredients are consistent throughout the ration. On a ranch, it would be normally mixed within a feed wagon, or if the ranch only has a few cabs, it could be mixed in a tub. The TDN of this diet, or energy content, is 58% and the crude protein of this diet is 11%. This next ration will target an average daily gain of 2 pounds per day for a 600 pounds steer. If we were going to make the complete ration, we would need 4.5 pounds of Brome Hay, 8 pounds of Falfa Hay, 3.5 pounds of Corn, and 0.3 pounds of the supplement which contains the minerals, vitamins, ionophore. But for this example, we are going to use 2.25 pounds of Brome Hay, 4 pounds of Falfa Hay, 1.75 pounds of Corn, and 0.15 pounds of the supplement. Again, we need to make sure that this diet is mixed completely so all ingredients are evenly mixed throughout. This diet is very dry, so instead of having corn, we could either replace that with wet distiller grains, or add corn silage to this diet, or we could even add water to this diet. As you can tell, this diet has a lot of forage compared to the first diet, so you need to make sure that this diet is mixed properly. This diet has a TDN of 63% and a crude protein of 12%. This final ration will target an average daily gain of 3 pounds per day for an 800 pounds steer. If we were going to make the complete ration, we need to use 9 pounds of Brome Hay, 11.75 pounds of Corn Silage, 6.75 pounds of Dried Distiller Grains, and 0.35 pounds of the supplement which contains the Minerals, Vitamins, Ionophore. Before this demonstration, we are going to use 4.5 pounds of Brome Hay, 6 pounds of Corn Silage, 3 pounds of Distiller Grains, and 0.175 pounds of the supplement. This diet, since it has the corn silage, is a lot wetter, so it should mix more evenly. This diet has a TDN of 75% and a crude protein of 14.5%. As you can see, the crude protein of this diet is higher than the NRC would suggest. This is due to the distillers being fed as an energy source, but we know that distiller grains are also an excellent protein source, so the diet is overfeeding protein. So you can see, as we increase the average daily gain for each diet, the amount of forage that is in the diet decreases, and the amount of concentrate that is in the diet increases. so the diet increases. . . . . . . . .