EP 44: Trading Green: How Global Commerce Shapes Our Individual Future W/ Abyad Zaman
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ABixP51JuSE
News & Politics
 hello everyone uh welcome to episode 44 of dollar dialogue podcast today's uh today's episode is a very interesting episode as it's pertaining green uh green economy and green uh trading green so our our title today is trading green how global commerce uh shapes our environmental future uh with mr abhi and zaman so this is a very interesting topic uh topic as this delves into the transformative realm of sustainable trade where global commerce uh intersects with environmental stewardship and as the international community grapples with uh escalating environmental challenges the spotlight turns to the role of global trade in both contributing to and combating uh ecological degradation so with that being said for for our guest speaker today we have mr abhi and zaman mr abhi zaman is a grade 10 student at the american international school of dhaka and he is currently the president of the sustainability council uh at our school and he also has led multiple uh initiatives such as collecting waste management uh data uh in his free time as well and he's currently working on a research paper as well pertaining uh sustainability and solar energy and and other than that he's also a very academically gifted student as he as he has achieved uh the highest honor award in our school and he uh and he also and abhi is also uh very interested in finance and economics as he is also a member of the finance club so abhi is clearly very gifted uh and he he has a very strong passion for green uh green economy as well as finance so with that being said mr abhi zaman would you like any uh would you like to add anything else to the introduction that i've just stated um yes thank you aribe for introducing me to the dollar dialogue i am grateful to be here and i'd like to share my experience as a sustainable leader at the school currently thank you mr abhi zaman for the introduction that you just uh just stated so so moving on the you know first segment i would like to unpack the environmental impact so in this segment we'll we'll i will we'll dive deep into the quantitative and qualitative impacts of international trade on our environment global trade is a powerful engine of world economy and it inherently involves extensive logistical uh networks that contribute significantly to the environmental degradation if not managed sustainable uh sustainably and emissions from global logistics include transportation goods across international borders which are responsible for a significant portion of global uh carbon emissions and the international transport forum estimates that fried transport uh accounts by around seven percent of all global emissions with this figure projected to grow by up to 50 percent by 2050 due to increase uh global trade volumes not only that uh not only that uh there's also uh ocean shipping which moves over 80 percent uh global trade by volume and emits approximately 1 billion metric ton of co2 each year representing about three percent global emission and this sector faces global pressure to reduce its carbon footprint through cleaner fuel uh fuel sources and more efficient vessel designs other than that there's also a resource extraction and its consequences the extraction of natural resources for export such as mining for metals and minerals significantly impact the environment the mining sector not only consumes about 10 percent of global energy but uh but it also is a major contributor to water pollution and deforestation for instance uh uh bauxite mining which is crucial for aluminum production has led to severe land degradation and loss of biodiversity in regions like west africa and according to world bank a report i was reading uh it said that poorly managed mining mining operations can result in soil erosion uh contaminated water supplies and displaced communities exacerbating the ecological footprint of trade related activities and its impact on biodiversity is also very impactful because the global trade also facilitates the the spread of our non-native uh species uh at disrupting local economy and the international union for conservation of conservation of uh uh conservation of uh uh nature which is also known as the icun highlights that invasive species often transported through shipping containers and uh and ballast water pose one of the greatest uh threats to our native wildlife uh comparable to habitat destruction and statistics from the united states uh show that invasive species uh cause environmental damages and uh cause environmental damages and and losses totally 120 billion dollars annually underlining the hidden costs of unregulated trade practices and as for agricultural exports and land use uh in the trading green uh uh commerce uh uh commerce uh commerce uh topic that we have today i would also like to talk about the global demand for agricultural products which has led to expensive uh expansive land use charges notably deforestation in brazil for instance the export driven uh soybean industry is one of the leading causes of deforestation in the amazon rainforest and this not only contributes to co2 emissions but also reduces biodiversity and disrupts water cycles and it is estimated that the amazon has lost over six seven hundred and sixty thousand kilometers of forest an area twice the size of germany primarily due to cattle ranching and agriculture much of it driven by international trade demands and in conclusion while global trade is indispensable for economic development uh it carries a sustainable environmental uh cost uh substantial environmental costs that require urgent attention and action so with that being said uh and uh and with segment one in which we talked about the environmental impact from global logistical impacts its uh impact on resource extraction and consequences its impact on biodiversity agricultural land use uh how do you guys think governments and economies around the world should adapt to it as economy as economies uh should grow but not at the cost of the environment i see that mr shazib's uh kareem's uh hand is raised so shazib could you please uh elaborate and provide your insights as you're very passionate about this topic as well yeah yeah um are you i think uh the main thing is you know it's very tricky as you mentioned but that like um develop development without like any environmental uh damage it's very tricky but the main thing would be i think like investing in green technology investing in green technology and like um uh especially in the african nations like i've i was reading this article where like um um u.n u.n aims to fund green technology in african nations and i think this would benefit them majorly and also like them investing in renewable energy as well would be very beneficial because you know let's face it global trade is like the circulatory system of the modern economy it moves goods money and opportunities across borders but it also moves carbon cargo ships alone emit over 1 billion tons of co2 every year nearly the same as germany's entire annual emissions and then there's air freight deforestation for agriculture exports and industrial waste from manufacturing hubs yet the solution isn't as simple as shutting it all down because you know trade lifts economies and it connects developing nations to markets reduces poverty and spreads technology including green technology as well so the real question isn't whether we trade but how we trade and you know but here's the good new news that the world is waking up because um because as i had mentioned before like there are also like um other uh good examples that are happening in the world right now because for example the european green deal is setting carbon border taxes so if a country exports dirty steel to europe they'll pay a carbon price and this forces cleaner production not just locally but globally and singapore's green port program gives financial incentives to ships that reduce their emissions with cleaner fuel or energy saving designs and in costa rica sustainable agricultural exports from fair trade bananas to carbon neutral coffee have become a national brand and that's green trade done right and also another thing is like maybe like implementing economic policies because you know as ari me and i were juniors both taking um economics at a higher level so uh we both learned about this maybe like governments can subsidize the subset of renewable energies and or even like implement taxes maybe like pigopian taxes or taxes on um any of the um environmentally harmful substances but you know the governments aren't the only player like the consumer also matters a lot because a growing number of us want sustainable products whether it's ethically sourced cocoa or fashion that doesn't wreck the amazon and guess what corporations are listening amazon pledged to the to be carbon neutral by 2040 and mares one of the one of the world's largest shipping firms is investing in green methanol ships and brands now brag about carbon labels the way they once bragged about low prices and sustainability has gone from being a niche concern to a business model and you know of course we can't talk about green trade without talking about greenwashing the dark side of corporate sustainability and you've seen it companies slapping in green leaf on their packaging and calling in a day or worse carbon offsets being used like a get out of jail free card like true sustainable trade requires transparency standards and accountability that's why global governance like the world trade organization and un's sustainable development goals is critical because without the rules it's just marketing so you may ask like where do we go from here experts say that the future of trade will hinge on three things green infrastructure like for example clean airports electric trucks and digital customs and the second fact is circular economy like products designed for reuse not landfill and uh third lastly is like trade deals with teeth agreements that require environmental protections not just suggest them and maybe one day countries will compete not just on prices but on planetary impact and here's the big idea trade built the modern world and now it has to help save it global commerce doesn't have to be the villain in the climate story it can be the hero but that means choosing green policies holding companies accountable and making informed choices as consumers because when we trade green we trade for a future that lasts so yeah thank you for listening well yes abiyad you definitely can go ahead and add on well yes i think that's a great question i think that's a great question that are we has wanted to discuss with us and i think the key thing to realize is that sustainability isn't just an environmental issue anymore it's an economic issue a social issue and honestly a survival issue governments and economies can't keep treating sustainability as a side project or something nice to have it needs to be embedded into how decisions are made at every level especially when it comes to things like trade infrastructure and investment right now most economies are still designed around short-term gains so what gdp growth production and profit but those systems don't account for the environmental costs or social damage for example a company that pollutes a river might show profit on paper but the real cost is paid by communities downstream in the form of health issues or lost biodiversity and those costs don't show up in economic reports which is a huge flaw in the system so one of the biggest adjustments governments need to make is redefining what growth and success actually mean that might look like adopting measures beyond gdp things like the social progress index or indicators that track environmental health well-being or inequality because if you're just measuring how much a country is producing or consuming with the thinking about what's destroyed in the process then you're not really seeing the full picture another key step is policy and regulation governments need to stop subsidizing unsustainable industries like fossil fuels industrial farming or fast fashion and instead invest in green innovation that doesn't mean shutting down economies or limiting development it just means redirecting energy funding and support towards a smarter cleaner and more future-proof industries and trade plays a big role here too governments can and should use trade agreements to encourage sustainability for example by giving tariff breaks to eco-certified products or enforcing labor and environmental standards across borders that's one way to create a level playing field where companies that actually care about sustainability don't get pushed out by cheaper more polluting competitors then there's the financial system banks investors and international institutions need to start treating environmental risks like real economic risks if rising sea levels are going to wipe out infrastructure in coastal cities or if pollution is going to drive up healthcare costs those are financial problems and if we ignore them we're just delaying the inevitable collapse of systems that we depend on from a government point of view it's also important to make the transition fair not everyone can afford to grow green at the same pace especially in developing countries like bangladesh so well their nations should support support the transition whether that's through climate finance technology sharing or just giving space for local economies to grow sustainability to grow sustainably in the ways that work for them and finally there's the people side of it education awareness and youth involvement are huge because none of these policies will work if citizens aren't engaged we need leaders who think long term but we also need people especially young people who are willing to hold those leaders accountable push for change and build solutions ourselves I think governments and economies need to stop thinking of sustainability as something that's slowing us down and instead see it as a way to make your systems fairer smarter and more resilient because the way we're things we're doing things now it's not just bad for the environment it's bad for the economics too right now we're in this weird in between phase globally like the world has finally woken up to the fact that we can't keep running our economies the same way forever we've got countries companies and even individuals making commitments to go green but there's a big difference between saying it and actually doing it still there are some pretty important things already in motion one example is the global push for renewable energy solar and wind power are expanding fast especially in countries like china and india but also in parts of africa and latin america even bangladesh has started investing more into solar especially in rural areas through small-scale solar home systems that's the current step that was working especially because it doesn't just help the planet it also gives energy access to people who didn't have it before we're also seeing more governments adopt sustainability policies like banning single-use plastics setting net zero carbon targets or introducing carbon taxes to make polluting more expensive the european union for example has a green deal which is basically a full economic plan built around climate goals that's a big shift treating sustainability as central not just as an afterthought and on the corporate side more companies trying to clean up their supply chains some brands are pledging to use recycled materials reduce emissions or make their factories more ethical is it always perfect no there's definitely still a lot of greenwashing out there but at least sustainability something companies are being forced to care about because consumers are getting smarter and demanding more transparency now what should the next steps be first i think you need to focus on the fundability a lot of people and companies are making promises for 2030 or 2050 but they're not doing enough now we need governments and global institutions to drag progress and call out the gaps this has to be built into trade deals and economic systems not just environmental policies like imagine if bangladesh only accepted imports from companies that followed environmental standards that would be a game changer second sustainable development has to be more inclusive it can't just be about rich countries going green while poorer countries are left behind a lot of people especially in the global south including bangladesh are already dealing with the worst effects of climate change flooding heat pollution despite contributing the least to the problem the next steps we have to include include climate justice that means funding tech sharing and support to a developing country's transition without being punished economically for it third we have got to connect youth and innovation young people are not just protesting anymore we're building things leading startups doing research and launching community projects like the one we have at aisd where we're currently trying to include an aeration project into the baridara lake park which is going to increase oxygen and help biodiversity grow because honestly if we're inheriting the future we should have a say in how it's shaped and finally when you stop thinking of sustainability as this environment only thing it's a design problem it's about redesigning systems how we move build grow and trade it's about business models education tech infrastructure basically every part of how society functions so yeah we're making progress but to actually solve the problems we've created we need bolder faster and more inclusive action and we did it now and we need it now the good news is we already have the ideas the next step is turning them to action thank you okay so abhiad you covered a wide variety of topics many things and talked about sustainability and i loved everything you talked about but also before we continue i wanted to ask you or ask arib as well more about like the definition of what sustainability really is and what it really means because as shazib already brought up initially uh he was talking about green washing and how the differentiation between green washing and real sustainability works so i would like to break it down before uh handing it off to you guys so we hear it everywhere because like sustainable eco-friendly carbon neutral but how much of this is real and how much is just a pr stunt because honestly green cells the data is a big statistically with data around uh studies show that over 65 percent of consumers prefer to buy from brands that claim to be sustainable and businesses notice and that's why we have seen such a flood of eco-friendly marketing in the last decade but how much of it is actually real and how much is just green washing so today uh i would like to also start unpacking a bit about the dirty truth about green washing how to spot it and also ask you guys on how to spot it and which industries according to you guys are the worst offenders and whether governments are actually doing anything to stop it so to start off let's first define green washing so green washing is when a company exaggerates or fabricates their environmental efforts it's all about creating the illusion of sustainability while they actually are not really making a meaningful change so what are some green washing techniques number one it would be vague buzzwords without any proof all natural eco-friendly green certified all of these sound good for sure but many of these terms have no legal definition and a company can slap them on a package with zero accountability number two hidden trade-offs a brand might launch a sustainable product line but if 99 of the products are still made unsustainably that's green washing again like think of a think of fast fashion brands like zara that promote a green color collection while producing billions of garments that end up in landfills and finally one other major classic green washing tactic is carbon offsets instead of action so i would kind of say that this is a scam because carbon neutral claims instead of cutting emissions some companies would just buy carbon credits so this is essentially paying someone else to plant trees while still polluting at the same rate this is what airlines oil companies and even some bitcoin miners do but let's also have a greater deeper dive into this who are the worst offenders of green washing well brands like h&m zara and shane promote conscious collections made from sustainable materials but they still produce this clothing and their other uh lineups at a massive scale which definitely leads to massive waste water pollution and carbon emissions here's a reality check a single polyester shirt takes 200 years to decompose and number two the oil and gas industry this is obviously not so sustainable oil carbon emissions but bp was rebranded as beyond petroleum while still drilling for oil green washing at its finest and then let's look at shell and exxon they promote clean energy investments yet less than one percent of their profits go to renewables and chevron spent 100 million dollars on green ads while still investing 20 billion dollars in fossil fuels so are there any laws against green washing well right now most companies are allowed to just regulate themselves which means they basically grade their own homework it's like telling a teenager to grade his own test paper and that would end up on the final report card and that's what companies are doing right now so what's what's gonna happen soon well countries are starting to crack down already the EU as a new green claims directive which will require companies to provide scientific proof for sustainability claims the US they have proposed a climate disclosure rule where corporations are forced to disclose their environmental impact and the UK they have already started a massive crackdown on misleading eco labeling and ads there are also many lawsuits going on for instance coca-cola was sued for calling itself sustainable while being literally the largest plastic polluter in the world and KLM airlines is still facing legal action for misleading green flights so i wanted to ask here's a big question should green washing be illegal and should companies face fines or even criminal charges for misleading sustainability claims and as consumers as a customer how do we tell what's the real and the differentiation from the fake and what do we know what sustainability really means as a consumer because of all of this massive amounts of money spent in ads talking about and ameliorating their environmental impact as part of their campaign that's a very good question uh supi that you have asked yes clearly uh companies are uh like utilizing advertising loopholes to promote themselves as uh as economically sustainable and this is clearly something that uh that uh economies around the world particularly the developed economies uh need to work on the eu uh currently has a bit of a more strict uh regulation pertaining advertising and false advertising in the sense and other than that uh i would also i would also uh say that economically speaking companies are sort of incentivized at this point in time to be more uh to be more green so even though they might not believe uh in their uh heart that uh green economy and trading green is something uh is something that they might necessarily not like inherently like like uh inherently like their desire but on paper and also in reality some countries have to and some companies have to uh depend on that as businesses are and businesses and consumers won't at consumers sometimes don't even purchase items for example in malades in the garment sector majority of the products they have to go to a stringent uh process in which uh there has to be green regulations in place with where factory workers have to have adequate amount of uh working hours and there needs to be like so there also needs to be like uh majority of the energy need also needs to come from like solar stuff like that and this is something that western economies particularly germany and the us they have they have like uh put pressure on bangladesh and this is something uh that balance has been doing and other than that i would also like to give an economic standpoint on this so the reason that majority of the country especially uh especially developing countries around the world they are particularly not fond of trading green is because of the economic uh cost of it because trading green often uh comes with a cost and for example bangladesh uh let's say none of the green policy were put in place and the average uh shirt uh let's say like uh we can export it at 100 uh let's say we can export it at like what uh let's say 50 dollars how uh 50 uh 50 for like one one like like one bulk of shirt however and we have to understand that we're also competing with other countries like china vietnam uh germany turkey all of these other countries and china has clearly more resources than us they're more efficient economically speaking their average labor productivity is more so obviously china is going to out compete us which is why if if we put even more uh economic uh green economic uh policies uh the shirt uh that we we are like selling at like 50 a bulk it's now gonna go up to like 60 or 70. so we're losing our sort of the we're losing our competitive advantage here which is why many of the developing countries around the world at this point in time are a bit more reluctant to incorporate uh economic uh uh green economic uh policies however with that being said i would also like to talk about some of the policy framework for sustainable trade so uh so in recent decades the traditional approach to trade policy which primarily focused on tariff reduction and market access has undergone a significant transformation and a growing growing recognition of trades uh impact on global like uh global environmental sustainability uh sustainability has prompted the integration of environmental causes and free trade agreements which are also known as the fdas for instance the trade and sustainable development the tsd character in the european union fda is encompass a broad range of environmental issues including sustainable management of forests fisheries and adherence to multilateral environmental agreements so as of 2021 over 20 of all active ft is globally contained provision that explicitly addressed environmental issues compared to just eight percent in the early early 2000s and this was uh for this was i believe from the world trade center uh that i read and the comprehensive journal of economic and trade agreement which is our cta ct ceta between canada and the european agreement uh european union has been a front-runner setting environmental standards that ensure practices such as sustainable forest management and responsible mineral extraction and the eu has been particularly proactive around the world and with their fda's required not only compliance with domestic environmental laws but also adherence to the international environmental uh conventions the eu vietnam fda for example includes a commitment from vietnam to to implement the paris climate agreement which sort of demonstrates a direct link between trade policy and global environmental commitments and the united states mexico canada agreement which is the usmca represents a significant advancement in environmental commitments within north american trade policy thing it includes groundbreaking provisions aimed at conserving marine species combating illegal wildlife trade and enforcing stricter penalties for environmental violations and while the inclusion of environmental clauses in trade agreements is a positive development the effectiveness of these provisions often depend on rigorous uh implementation of uh implementation of uh implementation of uh enforcement mechanisms uh enforcement remains a challenge because you can say whatever you want in paper but enforcing it in real life is a is a very difficult thing to do particularly in countries with weak institutional capacities so our 2019 report by the united nations uh conference on trade and development the unctat highlighted that while enforcement of environmental provision has gradually improved uh consistent monitoring and dispute resolution mechanism remains underdeveloped in many trade agreements which sort of affects their real world impact and integrating sustainability into trade agreements can also have a profound economic implication by fostering environment environmentally sustainable practices countries can enhance their competitiveness in global market that increase of increased values of value sustainability furthermore such policies can spur innovation in green technologies and services potentially operating new markets and creating jobs in emerging sectors for example according to the international review uh renewable energy agency which is the irena uh the renewable energy sector alone could employ more than 40 million people by 2050 which sort of underpins the environmental sustainability so uh the sustainable trade trade in the international review so clearly uh its sustainable trade are put in place specifically by the european union in the european union they're clearly doing a very good job uh at this point in time because compared to other other western nations for example u.s canada eu is clearly at the front runner and they're and they and they actually have put policies in place which are which are sort of somewhat working uh but however i wanted to hear your guys insights abhiad zaman mr supri nangala or mr shahzib kareem i'm sorry could you repeat the last question again yes mr supri nangala so uh so based on my analysis of the political frameworks uh and the legal frameworks that have been put in place particularly by the european union which which has been the front runner in the in this sector uh what do you guys think uh that further needs to be done in this sector because policy wise eu has done a lot and some of it is actually working however in terms of rest of the world they're clearly lacking in this sector so what do you what do you think uh uh as an economic from an economical standpoint or from an environmental standpoint what further uh action needs to be done for uh in economies around the world to be more sustainable mr abhiad zaman mr supri nangala or mr uh shazib kareem i see mr abhiad zaman's hand is raised yes mr abhiad zaman with abhiad zaman before you start speaking i wanted to also ask you to incorporate a few ways as to how a consumer will know whether the plot the product is truly uh sustainable because currently there are regulations but they aren't enough so i wanted also for you to uh as part of your since your uh student leader and uh could be considered as a co-president of the sustainability council i wanted to ask whether you had any ideas on how to uh make it easier for the consumer to know whether a product is truly sustainability or whether it's just green washing and yeah okay thank you mr supri so the question of whether a consumer can know if a product is truly sustainable is a big question sustainability in the marketplace is a growing trend but with so many companies jumping on the green bandwagon it's getting harder for consumers to know whether a product is genuinely sustainable or just another case of greenwashing as consumers we want to make informed choices we also need the tools to verify the authenticity of the sustainability claims that companies make so how can you as a consumer tell whether their product is truly sustainable let's dive into some tools that can help us make better decision purchasing purchasing decisions which i have made as from my experience as a co-founder of the sustainability council i have had some insights and thought out some ideas one of the easiest ways to know if a product is sustainable is by checking for third party certifications not just what the company says these are issued by independent organizations that have strict standards in place some of them include fair trade whether it was made under fair labor conditions and the workers received a fair wage b corp certification sort of companies with the certification meets high standards of social and environmental performance accountability and transparency energy star and many more look looking for these logos on packaging or websites is very crucial in order for sustainable consuming a certified product has gone through rigorous checks to ensure it meets environmental or social sustainability standards if a brand claims to be sustainable but doesn't provide proof of certification or third party validation proceed with caution investigate the brand transparency is a brand truly transparent brands that are truly committed to sustainability are open about their practices the materials they use and their environmental impact a sustainable brand should be able to provide clear information about whether products are made as a production local or does it involve long distance shipping that contributes to carbon emissions what materials are used are they recyclable biodegradable or sourced from sustainable farms or forests are the chemicals in the product comfort of the environment the carbon footprint are they actively working to reduce emissions offset their carbon or invest in clean energy sources waste management are they committed to zero waste with these recyclable or compostable packaging or do they create a lot of unnecessary plastic waste for example in our school we have a lot of paper waste as a result of education the sustainability council has been working for many years now on recycling paper to ensure that there is sustainable practices at the school that benefit both the environment and the school the environment and the school that is the best practices that are safe in the community and their services that are sustainable and safe are the workers paid fair wages or the working conditions ethical and safe you can check the company's website or annual annual sustainability reports to get a better sense of eco-friendly practices third be critical of vague claims and buzzwords many companies use buzzwords like eco-friendly green natural or organic to attract customers but without explaining what these terms actually mean they're pretty meaningless for example a company might say a product is eco-friendly because it's made with some recycled materials but they still might use toxic chemicals in production or non-renewable resources in parts of the of their supply chain so be wary of vague or broad claims do a bit of research on the company's overall impact a product might look sustainable on the surface what about the company behind it they might continue to rely heavily on fossil fuels as a as mentioned but or like companies like exxon and other oil companies they have high carbon emissions or the damaged ecosystems from mining deforestation do some background research research from the company look up their corporate social responsibility reports use coverage and any environmental violations they might have faced check their track record on sustainability just because a company markets a single green product doesn't mean its overall operations are sustainable if you find that a company is responsible for significant environmental damage or unethical practices even if they offer some sustainable products it might not be worth supporting them in the long run watch out for greenwashing tactics there could be irrelevant claims for example saying a product is cfc free where cfcs have been banned for decades focusing on one small green feature some companies will highlight one positive aspect of a product like using a little recycled material while ignoring its broader environmental impact like excessive packaging or harmful chemicals misleading labels some companies will put eco-friendly symbols on their packaging without any real backing for those claims there could also be false advertising companies sometimes make claims that they are 100% sustainable carbon neutral or eco-friendly without any proof of transparency remember to use technology to your advantage there are apps that fashion brands use on their sustainability practices helping you choose more ethical brands and eco-friendly without any proof of transparency and eco-friendly without any proof of transparency and the data is a database of environmental certification labels where you can search for trusted eco-labels on products remember the truly sustainable products are backed by third-party certifications transparent practices and a commitment to environmental and social responsibility throughout the entire supply chain if you want to be a conscious consumer look for the certifications do your research and be cautious of vague claims or buzzwords remember sustainability isn't just a marketing tool it's a critical movement to protect our planet and as consumers we have the power to choose better and demand more thank you thank you thank you mr abhiad zaman and mr supreet nagella uh for that uh insightful uh information uh our our uh another uh our another uh co-host uh mr shah zikarang is unfortunately facing uh internet difficulties which is why uh he hasn't uh contributed uh to the discussion but uh we hope uh his internet uh will soon uh he will uh out uh uh he'll uh he'll overcome his internet difficulties so moving on uh i like the fact that aviat talked about uh about the call to action for the consumers as well as uh how uh consumers can be aware of false advertising and other than that i would also like to talk about the corporate initiatives for sustainability in trade so modern corporations are adopting a variety of strategies to reduce their environmental footprint and enhance their sustainability and these strategies include investing in renewable energy optimizing supply chain logistics and adapting circular economy principles to maximize waste and to provide some statistical insights research indicates that a company with robust sustainability practices see an average increase of 4.8 percent in their stock performances which is uh which is according to mackenzie and company additionally a 2021 survey by ibm found that 62 percent of consumers are willing to change their purchasing habits to reduce environmental impact underscoring the economic initiatives for companies to uh sort of adopt sustainable practices not only that there have been you know there has been innovative practices as well many corporations are shifting towards uh renewable energy sources to produce uh to power their operations for example google achieved a hundred percent renewable energy for all its operation in 2017 which is a significant step towards its commitment to carbon neutrality and companies like unilover have committed to outsourced 100 percent of their agricultural raw materials sustainable sustainably by 2030 reducing their environmental impact and ensuring longevity of their supply chains and firms like adidas have also pioneered the use of recycled materials in their products the company aims to replace all uh virgin polyester uh with recycled polyester uh in their products by 2024 demonstrating a shift towards a circular economic model and from talking just about the economic impact adopting sustainable practices often leads to economic benefits uh through operational efficiencies improved brand image and access to new markets furthermore companies are engaging in sustainable practices tend to attract investment at a higher rate with global sustainable uh sustainable investment now topping 30 trillion dollars up by 68 percent since 20 uh 2049 and growing and in terms of cost saving improved energy efficiency and waste reduction strategies can significantly reduce operational costs for example walmart reported annual uh savings of one billion dollars from its waste uh reduction efforts alone and additionally uh in terms of revenue growth a commitment to sustainability can open up new markets particularly in regions with stringent environmental regulations or a strong consumer preference for you know eco-friendly products and obviously there's going to be challenges and implementations that that are going to come along the way for example despite the advantages transitioning uh to sustainable economic practices uh pose uh poses challenge including high initial cause the complexity of altering established supply chains and the need for a technological innovation and corporations must uh often invest heavily uh upfront in new technologies and processes which can impact the short-term financial performances but are also beneficial in the long term uh and additionally the integration of sustainability in the corporate strategy requires comprehensive re uh change management and often a cultural shift within the organization so clearly uh we can see that corporate sustainability is not just an ethical necessity but also an economic imperative and companies must be proactively uh integrating environmental consideration into their operations uh which are better positioned for long-term success and resilience so with that being said uh for for add a question uh for everyone or you can add your own insights as well for developing countries like maladesha or other developing countries around the world what what uh what do uh corporations in these countries uh need to do as consumers might not necessarily care about the environment as much as they do in in western countries mr supine nagala mr abhi at zaman or mr shahsakarim or you can add your own insights as well okay so ahri what a wonderful question it's such a insightful question okay so what can bangadesh do okay first of all bangadesh they have the opportunity of solar power and wind energy this is because bangadesh especially in rural areas they they have a they are it's like there's abundant sunlight and it's an ideal candidate for solar power development so what how exactly do we use this uh sunlight well the government could invest in solar panel installations or senna or put out incentives where uh houses with solar energy could possibly reduce cheaper or receive cheaper electricity prices after their own uh solar generated electricity runs out and possibly they could also market solar panels better and possibly even try to start their own solar panel units where they can mass produce uh solar panels at a very cheap price since this would also help supply rural regions where the national grid could possibly be unreliable but your question of whether uh whether the consumer really cares and whether thursday has industries could be radiated with people increasingly martian meteorite gets from some uch from alan or on york but um uh personally the biggest business as well is so extremely big already i'm trying to 어머 who are a capitalism and but mcb detriment still and we refi ह It's very true that the biggest barrier would be the initial cost of sustainability. And though the upfront investment is very high, it would also be very important for companies to consider the long-term savings. Because although solar panels, high upfront investment, high products for a bit, in the long term, Bangladesh could possibly start producing garments per se, for instance. At a much cheaper price than ever before. And this should be a very good incentive for corporations, both domestic and international. And when it also comes to agriculture, there's also sustainable agriculture through things like organic farming or rainwater harvesting. And though they come with their own costs, farmers should invest in organic fertilizers, seeds and new techniques. Though costing more than traditional methods, they will be better for the overall population and the health of the overall community. But again, there's a question. Will the consumers pay more for organic or sustainably produced goods when cheaper conventional options are readily available? Well, I personally feel no. For now, definitely not. Because they don't want, especially in South Asia, people are not willing to splurge money or spend money on such things. Because the GDP per capita is already very low. And their house income and home income is very low in comparison to the developed countries like in Europe or America, where they have the money to afford eco-friendly manufacturing practices, unlike Bangladesh. So I do feel that for now, consumers will not pay more for sustainable goods. And this is a point that can definitely be argued by Abiyad. And I'm willing and I'm obviously interested to listen to his argument if he poses this as an argument. But no, overall, no. I would say I personally might not pay for organic goods since cheaper and conventional options are readily available. I would personally feel that my choice would not make a greater impact, though this is quite a closed-minded mindset, which I'm trying to change as I'm learning more and more about sustainability in school and through Abiyad's Sustainability Council. So, Sapreet, you've made a great argument. And in today's world, we are faced with countless choices when it comes to the products we buy. So, one of the benefits that I would like to highlight is the health benefits. For example, in foods, while GMO foods, genetically modified foods could be cheaper and could be produced in much larger scale. It has been known that non-GMO foods have greater health benefits and more nutritious value. And then we have environmental impact. Supporting sustainable farming is a great thing and this would help the farmers. Cut, cut. Anyway. Ethical considerations. Supporting fair labor and animal welfare. While it could be cheaper to buy some products that are readily available, you must think about what you're funding. Are you supporting fair labor and animal welfare? Because there could be animals or people suffering under the conditions just for cheaper goods. And it's an ethical decision that one must make on their own, whether they feel that it is right and whether they are willing to go to pay a little bit more just for fair labor and animal welfare. And the investment of quality. The price may be worth it. Organic farming is more labor. For example, organic farming is more labor intensive and requires more time and care to grow the crops without the use of synthetic chemicals. The higher price you pay for organic products often goes towards higher quality raw materials, fair wages and eco-friendly packaging. All of which contribute to a healthier environment and more ethical economy. And if you are all to go for the cheaper product, this would soon lead to a global degradation due to climate change. As we can already see, Bangladesh, which is facing flooding on the coast of Bangladesh, that could soon rise. And we also have the temperature rising globally at a very rapid rate. And the risks of cheap products. Sometimes low cost doesn't always equal good value. While cheap products may seem attractive in the short term, they often come with hidden costs. This could mean exposure to harmful chemicals, lower nutritional content, as I mentioned, and environmental damage caused by industrial farming. And we know that when there's too much farming done, this can lead to soil degradation and poor quality of soil, which leads to poor quality food. Which can contribute to chronic health issues, etc. And now I'd also like to talk about a company that has been incorporating sustainability throughout Bangladesh. We have Orion. The Orion Group, one of Bangladesh's largest and most diversified conglomerates, is setting a strong example of how businesses can incorporate sustainability into their operations. And how they're actively taking steps to align with global sustainability standards. From renewable energy to ethical business practices, Orion is working to reduce its environmental footprint of positively impacting the community. I do not think that it is a perfect company. However, I would like just to mention some of the great things that it has done in taking steps towards sustainability. Currently, Orion has been proactive in adopting renewable energy as a part of their operations. A key example of this is their investment in solar energy. Orion has installed solar panels on the rooftops of their factories. This initiative not only helps them reduce their reliance on fossil fuels, but also lowers their carbon emissions. Helping mitigate the environmental impact of their manufacturing processes. Waste management and recycling. In addition to renewable energy, Orion has also invested in waste management systems that prioritize recycling and reducing waste generation. Waste disposal and recycling are major concerns for industries in Bangladesh. Especially in sectors like textile manufacturing and food production. Orion has adopted more responsible waste management practices. Including investing in technologies that enable the recycling of plastic and other materials used in production. For instance, in their pharmaceutical division, Orion has made considerable efforts to reduce packaging waste. And move towards more eco-friendly packaging options. By focusing on reducing plastic waste and improving the recycling infrastructure. Orion is making a meaningful impact on waste production. Which is a crucial step toward achieving environmental sustainability. Sustainability doesn't just involve environmental factors. It also requires attention to social responsibility. Orion understands that sustainable business goes beyond the product. It's about ensuring the well-being of employees and the wider community. The Orion group is known for its commitment to fair labor practices. Ensuring that the workers in the factories and offices are paid fair wages. Have access to healthcare and working safe environments. This is particularly important in Bangladesh. Where issues related to workers' rights have historically been a concern. Especially in industries like textiles. We also have green manufacturing practices. Orion has made significant strides in green manufacturing processes. In their pharmaceutical and food production sectors. Orion has adopted environmentally friendly practices. That aim to minimize water usage. Energy consumption. And chemical waste. They've also implemented lean manufacturing techniques. That prioritize efficiency and waste production. Ensuring that their production processes are as resource efficient as possible. One notable effort is their investment in sustainable agriculture practices. Orion sources raw materials from suppliers. Who follow sustainable farming practices. Such as using fewer pesticides. Reducing water consumption. And minimizing environmental degradation. This is particularly relevant to their food products division. Where sourcing ingredients responsibly can help support. Both environmental sustainability. And food security in Bangladesh. In terms of transparency. Orion has been open about all sustainability goals and progress. The company regularly publishes sustainability reports. That detail its efforts in areas such as carbon reduction. Waste management. Energy efficiency. And social welfare initiatives. These reports are available to the public. And provide stakeholders with valuable insights. Into the company's long-term sustainability strategy. By prioritizing transparency. Orion not only holds itself accountable. But also sets an example for other corporations in Bangladesh to follow. Looking to the future. Orion has set ambitious goals to become carbon neutral in the coming years. The company recognizes the importance of reducing its overall carbon footprint. Especially as global markets place increasing pressure on businesses to decarbonize. In conclusion. Orion's efforts demonstrate that businesses in Bangladesh. Even in developing economies. Can play an important role in shaping a sustainable future. Whether it's through adopting renewable energy. Improving waste management. Ensuring ethical labor practices. Or pushing for carbon neutrality. Or is showing that sustainability is not just an ideal. It's something that can be integrated into everyday business operations. The example set by Orion is clear. Embracing sustainability is not just about corporate social responsibility. It's about future-proofing their business. Improving operational efficiency. And ultimately contributing to a more resilient and sustainable economy. As sustainability continues to take center stage in global trade and commerce. Businesses like Orion are proving that developing countries can indeed lead the way in environmental and social responsibility. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Abiyad Zama and Mr. Suprit Nagala for your very detailed and insightful analysis. As well as mentioning domestic companies in Bangladesh which are practicing environmental policies. So with that being said I would like to talk about the role of consumers in promoting sustainable trade practices. So this is a very important segment in my opinion. Because with increasing awareness of environmental issues. Consumer preferences are significantly influencing market dynamics and corporate strategies. Toward more sustainable practices. So consumers are increasingly demanding products that are not economically viable. But also environmentally responsible. And this shift is evident across various sectors. Including food, apparel and electronics. So according to a Nielsen report. 73% of global consumers say that they would definitely or probably change their consumption habits. Due to their habits to reduce their impacts on the environment. Additionally with sustainability claims on packaging. So two times faster growth compared to products without. And this is from the same Nielsen report as well. So clearly consumer demand for sustainable products is compelling companies. To revise their product lines and supply chains. To include more environmentally friendly options. For example major retailers like Target and Walmart. Have committed to increasing their offerings of products that prioritize sustainability. And consumer interest in sustainability is spurring innovation in green technologies as well. The automotive industry for instance has seen a surge in electric vehicle sales. Driven by consumer demand with global electric car sales doubling in 2021. And this is also due to awareness and education. For example the role of social media in marketing. Social media platforms and targeted marketing campaigns. Play a significant role in educating consumers about the benefits of sustainable products and practices. They also enhance transparency allowing consumers to make more informed choices. And certification schemes like fair trade, rainforest alliances and energy start. Help consumers identify products that meet certain environmental or ethical standards. And the presence of these labels can significantly influence purchasing decisions. As evidenced by a 30% increase in sales of label products year over year to year. And this is evident by Fair Trade International as well. However there are challenges in consumer influences. And this is something that Subhita and Aviad have mentioned a lot. Which is the greenwashing. Which is one of the main challenges in consumer driven sustainability. Which is the prevalence of greenwashing. Where companies falsely advertise their products as environmentally friendly. And this practice can also mislead consumers. And undermine genuine sustainability efforts. And often sustainably produced goods come at a premium price. And making them less accessible to a broader audience. And economic studies suggest that while affluent consumers can afford. Affluent consumers who have some sort of capital. Can afford to prioritize sustainability. Costs remain a significant barrier for lower income groups. And not only that. There's also emerging trends and innovation. For example. For example. If I'm not mistaken. There has been green taxes. Or green taxes. Which has been put in states. Like California. Where companies have to sort of pay taxes. For the carbon emissions that they produce. And this is very optimistic. Because it increases the global consumer and corporate awareness. About sustainability issues. And it also sort of drives demand for sustainable products and practices. Encouraging businesses to innovate. And governments to afford stricter environmental regulations. And not only that. In countries like Asia. In countries. In Asia. Countries like China and India. Making strides in renewable investment. China leads the world. In both the production and the use of solar panels. Wind turbines and electric vehicles. Showcasing a substantial shift. From its previous reliance on coal-based energy. And a few episodes ago. In which we were talking about Rajasthan. With our guest speaker. Port Agrawal. We also saw that India has the largest. If I'm not mistaken. The solar power plant. Which goes on to show. The level that Asia also has. In terms of renewable energy. And in the Americas. There has also been pushed. Towards integrating environmental concerns. Into trade agreements. And business practices. Particularly in sectors such as agriculture. And manufacturing. Which are critical for economies of countries. In North and Central America. So clearly. It's important to acknowledge the ongoing challenges. Of balancing economic growth. And environmental sustainability. Especially in emerging markets. Where industrial growth is often a priority. However. It's important to leverage the technology. And international cooperation. To find a balance. That allows for both economic development. As well as environmental preservation. As the world is clearly. As the world is clearly. Lacking in this sector. However. We should be optimistic. As clearly countries around the world are trying. And there has been some progress. However. We need more progress. As time is of the essence. And global. And global. Sort of global warming. And other such factors. Has clearly led to more environmental degradation. That companies should be more aware of. So with that being said. Mr. Abiyad Zaman. Mr. Supriyad Nangal. Or Mr. Shazifkar. Would you like. Would you like to add any final insights. For today. Before we depart. Yes. Mr. Abiyad Zaman. My final thoughts. As the co-founder of the sustainability club. At AISD. I've seen the first time. How important it is. To make conscious. Conscious. Conscious choices. That prioritize the environment. Our health. And ethical standards. Like pushing for sustainable business practices. What I've learned from this discussion. Is that. Sustainability isn't just a trend. It's our responsibility. As individuals. We need to be mindful consumers. And as a society. We need to push. For systemic change. That encourages companies. To adopt more sustainable practices. We've covered a lot today. From health benefits. Ethical considerations. To the environmental impact. Of our choices. The key takeaway here. Is that organic products. Aren't just a premium option. Their investment. In a healthier future. Both for us. And for the planet. While the upfront cost. May be higher. It's important to look. For the long-term value. Of making sustainable price choices. It is very important. To make sure. That consumers. Like us. Continue to demand. Transparency. Accountability. And environmental responsibility. To guide ourselves. Through the greenwashing. That is going on. Throughout industries today. As a young person. Leading. The sustainability council. In my school. I believe that we can inspire real change. If we all work together. Make informed decisions. And hold corporations. And governments accountable. For the future we want to build. It's important to look. At the long-term value. Of making sustainable choices. Ultimately. It's not about how cheap something is. Or how readily available. But also how about. About how responsible we can be. With the choices we make. That change the entire industries. And affect our world. In terms of climate change. And other global issues. Caused by. Renewal. Caused by. Such practices. And that's. A true measure of sustainability. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Abiyad Zaman. For that very insightful. Response. So as we wrap up. The podcast for today. Clearly. Clearly for this podcast. It was a very. Very inspirational one. Hearing Abiyad. Speak. As he's the. President of the. Sustainability Club. In our school. And they have. They have done very. Applaudable initiatives. That has clearly. That has clearly. Been acknowledged by everyone. So trading green. How global commerce. Shapes our environmental. Future is a. Was a very exciting video title. Personally for me. And. And I think we can all. Unanimously agree. That while. While there are challenges. That are prevailing. At this day and age. Other companies. And other countries. Around the world. Should be more cognizant. On how they. On how they. Sort of use their. Use their operation. In a way that is not. Harmful towards the environment. I like that. I like the fast fashion. Comment as well. And this is something that we also. We also research. In our Spanish class as well. Where the. Where the desert. Of Atacama in Chile. Sort of has this. Mountain of. Mountain of piles of. Washed up clothes. Which just goes on to show. Why using and reusing. And recycling is also very important. So. Before we depart. For our podcast today. Mr. Abiyad Zaman. Is there any final words. That you would like to. That you would like to say. About the Dollar Dialogue podcast. Before we depart. I am really grateful. To be. Included in this. Dollar Dialogue. I'd like to thank you. Arib Malik and Supri Nagila. For including me. And I've had a great time. And learning experience. As the co-founder of. The Sustainability Council. For future ventures. That we may explore. And also for. Just being educated. As an individual. On how our choices. Impact our future. And how we all. Can fight. Against. The effects. Of climate change. Global warming. And also include. Renewable energy. To mitigate such effects. Thank you guys. Thank you Mr. Abiyad Zaman. And thank you. Thank you to the audience. For listening to. Episode 44. Which was about. Trading green. How global commerce. Shapes our. Environmental future. So that is. That is all for today. Thank you. Thank you to the audience. For listening. And stay tuned. For our next episode. With. Which is going to be. With another very interesting. Guest speaker. On a very. Another interesting. Very. With another very interesting topic. So that's all for today. Thank you for listening. And goodbye. This is a parody. You.