The Secret To Perfect Tomatoes In The Field | Caterpillar Tunnels!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aC81uJmMzPA
Education
 Hey everyone, this week on the show we're talking about a crop that a lot of growers grow differently and I'll be sharing you some of the insights about how we grow field tomatoes. So perhaps you've seen in the other YouTube videos how we do greenhouse tomatoes. You know, greenhouse tomatoes is a big focus for us on the farm. It's a big focus of what I've been teaching to a lot of growers also because it's the number one money-making crop on the farm. But field tomatoes also play an important part in the season because they're a lot cheaper to grow in terms of investment and in terms of time. And that's really the key factor here about the way we grow field tomatoes that is we want to invest as little time as possible and put that time to do certain things that are really required and needed. And so the first thing is that we grow them on landscape fabric so that keeps the moisture really nice. We can put our drip tapes underneath and we won't need to be coming and weeding them or cultivating them. So we front load the whole fertility at the start so that means that we won't be bothering with side dressing. Further on, we're front loading and then we're transplanting crops that are really nice. So transplant that are the right size starting at the right time. So the process that we do here at the farm is that we stake them and we will trace them as they grow. And we want to prune them only once. We want to take the suckers out only once and then we'll just leave them kind of wild. And we'll do first pruning is below the first cluster of fruits. We'll take all the suckers out from underneath and that's going to give the plant enough energy for it to kind of grow its plant and then not overload the plant with fruits. And then there's one last operation is that about five weeks before either first frost or last market or whenever we want to kind of stop the process, we'll take the heads out. So let's say this is the head. So we'll simply cut the head out and that's going to give the signal to the plant to start and really put all the energy and all the fruits that's already on the plant. There's a lot of growers that have fungal or diseases on the leaf. That's why we use these caterpillar tunnels. You know, I did another video about how we move them around. This is one reason why we have these caterpillar tunnels is to move them on the nightshades for the summer. We leave pretty much everything open. But one of the thing here is that the rain doesn't come directly on the leaves. And that's the number one entry point for a lot of diseases is when the leaves are moist for too long. So other growers in other areas could have shade clots. That could also be a winning strategy using those same caterpillar tunnels. But all in all, the name of the game with the field tomatoes is to invest a lot of energy at the start of them. And then we pretty much leave them to themselves. And we'll have a few weeks of really nice bumper crops that we bring at Farmer's Market. Obviously, you want to have different varieties, varieties that people don't know of, some that are more spectacular than others. Taste is really important. That's really where field tomatoes out-compete some of the greenhouse tomatoes. And for us, the trick is to have the field tomatoes kick in at a time where we'll have less greenhouse tomatoes. So all in all, low maintenance, high quality, but learning how to set them up is super important. So that's it for this week's video. Don't forget, guys, there's a cheat sheet that you can download about how to prune your tomatoes to grow them on two heads with two liters. It's a great way to save money on the seeds and to have more productivity. Hope you like this week's episode. I'll see you next week. Don't forget to subscribe to the channel. It gives me the signal that you guys are into it and that I should keep posting what I have to offer. Hope you guys are well. JM out! Chase We pride