Greenhouse Planting Schedule
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=acWoC3HOXdk
People & Blogs
 Hi there, Calista here with Avalily Permaculture and the Earth Skills Institute. Today I'd like to take a few minutes to share my schedule for planting in my Three Seasons Greenhouse. So we are located in the southern Rocky Mountain region of British Columbia. And the growing zone is a 4A. Our current temperature in here today is just under 20 degrees Celsius. And the nighttime temperatures have been getting down to between 0 and minus 2 or 3. But that's warm enough during the day that the soil accumulates enough heat that it doesn't freeze at night at those temperatures. So I planted my cold crops in here last week just before the full moon in March. And I typically plant my cold crops in here at sort of the end of March. These guys should be popping up here any day now. I'll just give you a quick overview of my beds. This is the southerly facing side of my greenhouse here. And the north facing wall is at the back here. And what I like to do is I grow my cold crops in here until about mid-May. And then it starts to get too hot in here for my cold crops. And they tend to bolt. So what I'll do is I'll take my hot crops that I've started inside ahead of time. And I will place them on that shelf in the back corner at the beginning of May. And I will also start all of my seedlings that I want to plant out into the garden with a little bit of a head start. So I'll start those there at the beginning of May. So that's like my squashes and zucchinis. Those things that don't take too long to grow. But I just want to give them a little bit of a head start. And I will set those guys there. And they'll sit there for a couple of weeks until sort of mid-May or the second week in May. And then I'll take all of my cold crops out of the beds. And I will transplant my hot crops into the beds. And I like to companion and guild plant all of my hot crops. So that I get sort of the best benefit I can out of my space. And then those hot crops will grow through into the end of September. Sometimes if I'm lucky with a mild fall even into October. And at the end of August you can take all of those understory plants out. And start another set of cold crops. Which will take you into October for sure. And once the hot crops are done you can just cut those back and take them out over top of your cold crops. If you are in a milder climate you can even grow. And then you can also grow through into the winter as well with your cold crops. Or kale which is extremely cold hardy is a really good one to grow through the winter. So you can start it kind of mid-summer outside. And then just in pots. And then once you're finished with your you know your your three seasons sort of greenhouse operations in the fall. You can transplant those into the beds for winter harvest. Here I can transplant kale in October. It won't really grow anymore through the winter. But I will still have some harvestable leaves as if I've you know done a good job of growing a decent sized plant ahead of time. So that's kind of my planting schedule for my greenhouse in my growing zone. If you liked this video and you want to learn more about homesteading or coldsteading. Please subscribe to my channel. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.