How To FIND ALL TRUCK PART LOCATIONS in DRIVING EMPIRE! (BUILD A TRUCK EVENT) ROBLOX
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aFkavt6CoTs
Gaming
 Welcome everybody to Drafton Empire. These are going to be all of the truck park locations in Drafton Empire where we build the truck of them. The first location right here. These are the mirrors. You want to make your way right over here and go ahead get the mirrors. There we go. There's one out of two mirrors. Let's move on to the next location. We are now going to go all the way down here and there's actually going to be the mirrors right around here. So make your way all the way down here, right? And where you want to go is just follow me. So there's actually a location right there as you can see. So go ahead and get that. But there's actually going to be another location which I'll show you in a moment. So that is one wheel but there's actually going to be another location which is going to be right over here. Alright, so there's actually another location right there. That's going to be another tire. So make your way inside of here. Just like that. That is going to be the wheels. So make sure you go ahead and get that. Just like that. Alright, so another one is going to be right here. So go ahead and get this. Just like that. There's going to be the other wheel location. So make sure you go ahead and get that one. So located right here, there's going to be the other mirrors that I was trying to find. So make sure you get this. And keep in mind guys, I'm going to keep this video short and quick. Unlike other YouTubers. Alright, so over here, there's going to be another location. So yeah, go ahead and get this right over here. And yeah, as soon as you get that, there's going to be the door. So that's the first door location. Alright, so located right here guys, you can actually see that we've got this part right here. It's kind of invisible. What the hell, mate? What is going on? Is it underneath or something? It might be. Yeah, it's right here. Yeah, it is underneath. So go ahead and get that. There we go. That's the door. Alright, so right there guys, what we've actually got is the barnyard. If you do keep on going down, just like this, so just carry on going down. And you should see the barnyard, just over here. And you're just carrying on following me, right? And what you should actually go ahead and see is this right here. So go ahead guys and get that right here, as you can obviously see. So go ahead and get that, just like this. So tailgate, just like that. There we go. So go ahead and get that. Alright, so right there guys, what we've actually got is another part. So go ahead and get this part right here. And that is going to be the grill. So go ahead and get the grill. Alright, so right here, we got the next one, which is the doors. There we go. So go ahead and get that, just like this. There we go. Alright, so another one gonna be right there. So go ahead and get this one. And yeah, it's gonna be right there. Go ahead and get that. There we go. There is now all of the doors collected. Another part is gonna be right there. So go ahead and get this one right here. Just like that. There's going to be the bumper. So go ahead and get the bumper, just like that. There we go. Alright, so right over here guys, you want to find the club. And the club on the left right here, there's gonna be another part. As you can see, so go ahead and get that. Is that the last one? No, it's not. We've got a few more. What are we missing? Let's have a look. Oh wait, we got everything, don't we? We always, yeah, we literally got everything. Do we? Yeah, we got everything. So yeah, that's all of the part guys. Hopefully this video helped you out. And yeah, peace out. Let's do this. Let's do this. Let's do this. Let's do this. Okay. Let's do this. Good. Let's do this.