6 Horse Farm Tools You NEED To Have!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aGTIdZTQ26Q
Pets & Animals
 We've had our horse farm for a little under two years now and there were a lot of supplies we didn't realize we needed until we actually got down into the thick of it and so in today's video what I wanted to do is I wanted to share some of the most useful equipment you will need on a horse farm. My first item here is a temporary electric horse fence and this is not something we originally realized we needed but over time we have had to replace fencing and fix fencing and section the horses off to areas so that we can do something in the other section and so having electric horse fencing is very useful. So this is just the like the strand this is called electric tape so this is about 500 meters in length that's pretty long and could fence off a whole field and I think this was under $200 and then of course you need to get the temporary stands or you could do t-post to hook it to and it's super easy and fast to put up and take down much faster than putting up a wooden fence. If you know that you eventually want wooden fences but you want to like kind of see the layout first and see how it works using temporary fence is a great way to do that. It also just gives you a lot more options when managing your field so right now we have this big field in the back where the horses go but it's not divided or split off and so there's no way to rotate them on it right now and so this spring I'm going to put this up so we can start rotating this field and get it a little bit more healthy. The next item is a giant throwing star. Just kidding it's actually a brush cutter and it's an attachment that goes onto this weed whacker here. So we have four acres here that is not a lot compared to some other farms like even like 10 or 20 acres would be so much more but just the amount of brush that you're having to constantly like clear off your land and the amount of vegetation you're having to keep under control is a lot and it can quickly become overwhelming. So we invested in this weed whacker that doubles as a brush cutter and it is like one of the best buys for our farm. You wouldn't be able to tell now but the fields back here used to be overrun with just weeds and shrubs and so we came through with this and clean it all up. This blade can cut up to one and a half inches thick like through vegetation like that and so you can just take down things super easily and it just makes it safer and cleaner for the horses and I personally liked getting the weed whacker that doubled as the brush cutter because we use the weed whacker just as much like to trim around the fences and to trim in the yard and around the barn and so if you are looking for a money saving option I would recommend getting the weed whacker that has the brush cutter extension. Another item you need for your horse farm is a manure spreader. So you don't really realize how much horses poop until you have your own land and you're having to manage their manure. A manure spreader changes the game when it comes to storing the manure. So many times you're going to find yourself having a massive pile of manure just from cleaning stalls and cleaning out pens and paddocks. It gets very overwhelming and suddenly you don't know what to do with it. The manure spreader kind of eliminates that issue. This here is the CM25 Conestoga manure spreader and they were kind enough to sponsor this video. How the spreader works is first you fill it with manure either from your manure pile or from your stalls or the pens and this particular model is ground driven. So what that means is as you drive these apron chains are going to start moving the poop to the back of the spreader and then the manure is going to go through the blades in the back which will turn it up and spread it evenly across your field. So not only is it great for manure management it's also great for fertilizing your land. They have options that can be pulled behind a tractor with a PTO shaft or they have the ground driven options like this. And the great thing about these spreaders in particular is that they are made to last and you'll probably only ever have to buy one. Normal manure spreaders will have a wooden floor and those things are going to rot super quickly. So this has a polyvinyl flooring that is like lifetime warranty. You also have the option of getting these coated sides that will keep the manure from getting on the metal and corroding that. And then lastly we got these apron chains that are stainless steel so no breaking no corroding or rusting they are hardcore awesome and these are the things that are going to move the manure down the machine. If you want to learn more about Conestoga and see the options they have for you check out their website conestogamanurespiders.com or just click the link in the description. I think everyone knows they need some type of tractor or something if you're going to have a farm. We have not had the opportunity to get one of those yet. When we actually bought the farm we bought a tractor that was super old but we ended up having to get rid of it. For right now we have been doing everything with this riding lawnmower and believe it or not but this thing has been sustaining us. In the future I would like to get an actual tractor but for right now another perk about the Conestoga is that they make this model to be pulled by even the wimpiest riding lawnmower. So you can do more than you realize with this thing. This is the cheapest riding lawnmower we could find at our local farm store and so if you're seeing this as like a barrier to entry and that's why you're not wanting to get a farm it is doable it is going to be harder. We have had to rearrange our farm a little bit like we have fenced off as much as we can for the animals to manage so that we don't have to mow as much but where there's a will there's a way. Another vital piece of equipment you need is this tool here. I'm not sure what this is really called I think it's called a tamping rod but I could be wrong. Anyway it's this super heavy metal bar on one end it has like a blunt end that's flat on the other end it has a point. This thing is hardcore not only is it a great tool to fight zombies but it's also a great tool to have for whenever you're building fences or you're needing to break rocks in your field and move them or dig. So it is really heavy but you can go and buy these at Lowe's or Home Depot for you know 50 bucks but what it's used for basically is that pointed end by just dropping it it gets deep into the ground and it can break dirt and rocks and then with the blunt end if you have put in a fence post or you're needing to flatten ground and make it even and level you can use the blunt end to kind of push things and pack it down to where it's stable. Again super cheap but very useful to have on your farm. This is a gas powered auger and the benefit of having an auger is so that you can do the work yourself and save money rather than paying someone to do the work. These are used to dig holes so if you're putting in fences or if you're we've used it to like dig up ground to where we can plant trees. This thing is pretty hardcore and it does save you a lot of money. I think this was like maybe a little over $300 and we've put up yards and yards of fencing like that wooden fencing back there we did it's 352 feet long. Probably would have cost $5,000 to pay someone to put it up but with this we did it ourselves. Now I will say with this you're going to need a big strong man to hold this thing. Like I have tried to use it myself and I get thrown but Colin can do this and he's been thrown a few times too. I mean I think it's more for two people like one person here one person there and you can drill into the ground but these augers make it so much easier to dig holes and put in fences rather than using like a post hole digger that's going to take you much longer. Again one of the most useful things you can have on your horse farm is a manure spreader so be sure to go check out Conestoga Manure Spreaders at conestoga manurespreaders.com and you can see their models and see what works for you but if you enjoyed this video please be sure to give it a thumbs up and subscribe to our channel for more weekly horse videos.