Unknown Title
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aiySQODl36g
Unknown Category
 We begin our journey in Kansas. The Midwestern U.S. state is a powerhouse for the meat industry. Every year, more than 2.5 million tons of beef are produced here. Much of it in these feedlots, without a single blade of grass. It's a highly controversial industrial model that faces criticism from animal rights activists and environmentalists. Brett Shaw oversees 6,500 cattle. You got that one off that way? There's two? But Brett doesn't breed the cattle. Instead, his job is to take these animals and fatten them up as much as possible before sending them to be slaughtered. Well, you're looking for the most finished ones and the biggest ones. See, this calf, he's not very finished. He's not very big. But there's some other cattle in here that are a lot bigger. This is what the mixture fed to the cattle looks like. So there's the final product. It's a rich, fattening mix of popped corn, cattle feed, vitamins and minerals. The mixture is served three times a day from a dump truck in enormous portions. They'll probably eat 35 pounds per head per day, every single day. We want what's in front of them to be exactly the same every single day. Brett and his manager Ryan want to see the animals double in size in just five months. The heavier the cattle, the more the men get paid. It's very important that we push those cattle to where they'll eat as much as they can. I mean, we want them to be full all the time. Pounds pay the bills. It's a competitive business because there's competition to get those cattle into your feed yard. So the better you can do that, the more consistent your customer base is going to be. The company has an annual revenue of $15 million every year. Today, Brett is sending 200 cows to the abattoir. As he watches them go, he feels it's a job well done. It's always a pleasure to be able to come up here and watch these fat cattle get loaded on the truck, knowing that we've done a good job and knowing that they're going to the packing plant to produce some high-quality beef. Nice big steaks. One at a time. One at a time. One at a time. One at a time. One at a time. Those steaks will be eaten in the United States and around the world. The U.S. is the world's largest food exporter. It produces staggering quantities of beef, corn and even almonds. Food and agricultural exports reached a total of $175 billion for the U.S. in 2024. But who are these farmers that feed the planet? Who in less than a century have gone from plows to the absolute highest performing machinery? Among them are the Raglands, who have been farming their land in Kentucky for generations. They run what's now called an agribusiness. There's a lot of opportunity. A lot of people around the world that need to eat. So I think there's a bright future in agriculture. But for how long can this always-more style of farming continue? In a country plagued by junk food and obesity, many voices are speaking out against the dramatic consequences of intensive farming. California, for instance, is facing increasing water shortages. And yet the two leading global carrot producers pretty much have a monopoly on local groundwater. They're giant corporations and they don't care about anything but money and power. We've got more pride than they've got money. Meanwhile, North Carolina is being polluted by industrial-scale chicken farming. It's mind-blowing. We cannot keep adding more of this waste and expecting Mother Earth to just say, OK, keep bringing it. It's a system driven by profit that's harming our planet and often comes at the expense of small farmers. After 20 years working with the chicken industry, I lost everything. But there are those working to fix these problems. The past model is to use those synthetic products. And we're saying that has to change. This is a close look at the excesses of the farming industry in the United States. In the heart of the fertile plains of Kentucky lies the small town of Magnolia. Here, surrounded by lush prairies, sits the picturesque house where the Raglands live. Charlie Ragland is just 13 years old, but he's already able to drive a tractor worth $250,000. I worked like 16 hours yesterday. It'll probably be about that many today. Aren't you tired? Yeah, a little bit. It's May, and Charlie is preparing the soil on his family's vast farm for sowing. The Raglands own over 2,000 hectares of land. An American farm is 10 times larger than a European one on average. Despite being only 13, Charlie already has a sharp eye for detail. Yep, there it is. He spotted an antler and managed to avoid serious damage. If they're laying in the field, kind of like this, you run over it, and then the stob will poke in the tire and puncture it, and then it starts leaking air. These tires are somewhere around $1,000. They're very expensive. The Raglands are among the many American farmers who export worldwide. Their lives look nothing like a traditional pastoral image of farming. Here, Charlie's father, Caleb, is getting ready to sow corn. These bright green seeds. We're putting in the hybrid seed corn. 113 day maturity. They bought the seeds from Channel, a subsidiary of the German agrochemical giant Bayer. It's green, it has seed treatment on it to help protect it from bugs and diseases and so forth in the soil. Help it where more of it will come up. This one? Alright, take this another time. These seeds are boosted by several chemical products to guarantee maximum yields. Alright, here, Koi. All good? Caleb will add another product delivered by his wife, Leanne. Nitrogen, via a synthetic fertilizer. The whole family has been working hard for two days. And the youngest, Carter, is starting to feel the effects. Long day. Cause it might be a late night. Well, let's go! Hey! Caleb owns a thriving farm with an annual revenue of around $3 million. He often has to take care of several tasks in a single day. Fortunately, his high-tech tractor practically drives itself. At the end of each pass, we turn it around, line it back up, hit the button, and we're good. So that helps us where we can deal with things on the phone. I can watch the markets for wheat. I can watch the markets for wheat. And we'll see the markets as well. in a single day. Fortunately, his high-tech tractor practically drives itself. At the end of each pass, we turn it around, line it back up, hit the button, and we're good. So that helps us where we can deal with things on the phone. I can watch the markets for wheat, corn. As a farmer, I have to wear many hats. I have to do the business. I have to make sure the bills are paid. The technology helps us to be able to multitask much better. The family's been farming this area in Kentucky for 200 years. Productivity has skyrocketed in recent decades. I often make yields over 200 bushels per acre of corn, whereas my grandfather, 30 years ago, 100 bushels an acre would have been a really good yield. So the last 30 years, yields have basically doubled, and they continue to go up. So that's good. At the Ragland Farm, everything is supersized, including these six big silos. Along with corn, the family also produces soy and wheat. Easy now. Back up just a little bit. This trailer will carry around $7,000 worth of wheat, wheat destined to be used to make McDonald's burger buns. So, yeah, we are proud to be able to sell it to Americans all over and the world, basically. Just having our product in stores and restaurants and stuff all over the world. It's a good feeling. Caleb didn't learn how to manage the farm from just his father. You washed up, Carter? He also studied business for four years, which was where he met his wife, Leanne. So these were pictures from college. I studied elementary education, and then he got a degree in business. So understanding the business side of farming, because there's way more than just putting the seed in the ground. Carter, where'd you go? I'll find you, because I need to... Okay. Like most farmers in the U.S., the Raglands are conservative and Republicans. They refuse to send their children to state schools. Instead, Leanne homeschools them. We have a test. Perfect. We also would like to know what they're learning and be able to teach them what we would like them to learn. And not so much what the school wants everybody to learn. Time for a long-awaited outing. The family's heading off to Louisville, Kentucky's largest city, where the biggest agricultural show in the United States is held every year. The National Farm Machinery Show. Most American farms rely on massive machines. And the latest innovations are being showcased here, alongside products made with soybeans. After Brazil, the U.S. is the world's second largest soy exporter. It's a thirsty crop, mainly used as animal feed. But at the stand of the American Soybean Board, Leanne prefers to highlight its many other uses. So we have everything from motor oil to Alfredo sauce to queso to Miracle Whip and mayonnaise. And then vegetable oil, which is straight soybean oil. The vast majority of American soy is genetically modified and not organic. For Leanne, the use of pesticides isn't a problem. I like to give the example that if my child is sick, I'm going to take them to the doctor to get an antibiotic or something. So if our crop is sick with weeds or a pest or something, we're going to spray it. We're going to treat the illness, but not over-treat it because that is money out of our pocket. Back to Kansas, one of the country's meat production hubs. On Bret Shaw's feed yard, operations are running at full capacity to fatten calves for American beef. Thirty calves have just arrived, each about a year and a half old. It's a brutal beginning for the calves. Each one has to be physically restrained upon arrival. Uh, 4-1-3, Brett. The newcomers get ID tags, a dose of five vaccines, as well as a de-warmer. And so that they grow more quickly, the manager Ryan injects a growth hormone implant into each calf's ear. Among other substances, this implant contains estradiol and trenbolone acetate. Two hormones that have been banned in Europe since the 80s due to the health risks they pose. But in terms of weight gain, they are very effective. Five, nine, eight. There's a pin over here where we implanted ten of them, and we didn't implant ten of them. And you can see they've grown apart. And just one of them has converted better, done a lot better. The other ones are still quite a bit smaller. Good. The Shaw family have been fattening cattle for three generations. Sixty years ago, Brett's grandfather started with 800 cattle. Then Brett's father, Bill, took over. This is a photograph from 1979. I'm right here, and this is my dad. 70s style, with the long hair. It's grown significantly over the years. Some of the original pins that are up here. Beef is the meat with the highest carbon footprint, largely due to the amounts of methane the cows release while digesting. But this doesn't bother Bill. He has a well-practiced response ready. One of these folders. I do this with presentations. Which would you say is the worst for the environment? This? Or this? And I'm not pointing the finger at anybody else, but I'm just saying if the finger's being pointed at us to do something, we need to point the finger at the rest of the world, too, and how we do business. In Kansas, the Shaws are actually one of the smaller players in their section of the industry. The state is home to enormous feedlots that hold more than 100,000 cattle. Many of these are located around Dodge City, a small, quiet farming town that's home to 27,000 people. Around 6,000 of them work at one of two large abattoirs, making up a huge proportion of the local economy. They belong to two giants of the industry. National Beef and Cargill. Companies that generated $189 billion in revenue in 2023. However, they market themselves as local producers. Locally focused. A family company. At Cargill, we nourish the world. We nourish the world. All of those trucks that you see, they're all refrigerated. They can transport frozen meat. One day that they stopped, it affects restaurants all over the world. Joel Tuchez worked in the abattoirs for a year before becoming a pastor in Dodge City. I don't know if you're aware, but the amount of cows they kill every day, it's at least, I think it's about 3,000 per shift every day. So it's about 6,000 to 7,000 a day in one plant plus the other plant. Well, that's a lot. Yeah, it's sad. It's sad to see, you know, they bring the cows and the cows get out. I don't know. It's... But this city said, we'll do it. And this area of the world said, we'll do it. In spite of his experience in the slaughterhouse, Pastor Joel isn't a vegetarian. Good morning, church. Good morning, church. How are we doing? Most people in his church are Latin Americans, the backbone of the local workforce. They take on the tough jobs in the abattoirs, work that many other Americans no longer want. These days, 65% of people living in Dodge City identify as Hispanic. We are the Smith's Church. Be blessed. Have a wonderful day. Pastor Joel is originally from Guatemala. His wife, Karina, is from Mexico and is also a pastor. Together, they support newcomers who arrive in Kansas to work in the abattoirs. Good morning, sister. How are you? How are you? How are you? It's hot. It's delicious. Hello, my sister. Bernabella is Colombian and moved to Dodge City eight months ago. Oh, no. Oh. Joel and Karina visit her often to lift her spirits. How are you? How are you? Are you okay? Bernabella is a single mother. Thank you. She juggles her long shifts at the Cargill factory with raising her 11-year-old daughter in a country she's still learning to navigate. When I first came to the factory, I was really scared of the knives. They have something called the chain, where pieces of meat pass in front of you. You have to catch the pieces, cut them, sharpen your knife. I was so scared and I said to myself, God, please let them send me to the packing station. How many items per day? Many. Around 3,000? We do a lot. That's all we do. Pack, pack, pack. Sometimes you can't take it anymore. At 55 years old, she's worried she's going to lose all feeling in her fingers due to the repetitive work and the cold. How are your hands? At the factory, they say we'll get used to the pain. I don't know why they say that, because we're still human beings. These three fingers are constantly stiff. Bernabella earns $22 per hour. But once she's paid the rent for the modest house she and her daughter share with another family, there isn't much left over. Her life is one of hard work and sacrifice. Meanwhile, at the other end of the chain, profits are at a record high. Four multinationals have cornered the meat industry, controlling 85% of the market. In the US, they're known as the Big Four. Cargill, Marfrig, the Brazilian owner of National Beef, Tyson, and JBS, another Brazilian multinational. Together, they generated $300 billion in revenue in 2024. Claire Kelleway is an agro-industry specialist. She brought us to her local supermarket to reveal the deceptive marketing technique, the illusion of choice for American consumers. So we can see what looks like a lot of options, a lot of different companies, but a lot of them aren't what they appear to be. So I feel like this bacon is a good example. You know, these look like three different choices of bacon. They're all actually the same company. Same with this Adels. It looks like a really, you know, artisanal, nice product. But this is another brand that's owned by Tyson Foods. This is a Tyson brand. This is a Tyson brand. The agro-industry empires own a multitude of global brands. For example, JBS owns more than 70. It really keeps going. Even worse, the big four have been accused of price fixing, driving prices up as high as possible. Former President Joe Biden condemned this practice publicly. Demanding more competition. I'm a capitalist. But capitalism without competition is not capitalism. Capitalism without competition is exploitation. It drives up profits. Guess what? You got four basic meat packing facilities. That's it. You play with them, but you don't get to play at all. And you pay a hell of a lot more. A hell of a lot more because there's only four. See what's happening with Oshiii. According to Claire Kelleway, the measures to regulate the sector have yet to yield results. They've begun to sue them for price fixing and anti-competitive behavior. But it's resulted in mostly fines to the companies, which for them can just be a cost of doing business. These companies are used to telling government what to do. They're not used to being held accountable. The agribusiness industry spends more money lobbying than the defense industry. It's, yeah, one of the biggest political influences in D.C. And they have a ton of sway, not just over Congress, but especially over federal agencies. And while meat industry giants have been criticized for price fixing, other powerful agricultural companies have been accused of monopolizing resources. Including here, in California. With its temperate climate, the state is the U.S.'s largest agricultural producer. Bordering the Pacific Ocean, you'll find the U.S.'s biggest producers of strawberries, lettuce, and artichokes. Like here in Castroville, the self-proclaimed artichoke capital of the world. Here you can enjoy the green vegetable with all sorts of dips, and even in desserts. Here we go. It's mainly for decoration. However, soil temperatures are rising. And a battle for water rages. Especially in the Cuyama Valley, one of the driest areas in the county of Santa Barbara. This is where two of the world leaders in carrots grow their crops. Grimway and Bolthouse. To maintain their yields, these companies pump massive amounts of groundwater, the valley's most important water resource. This situation enrages locals, like Jake and Charlie. Two small farmers and leaders of a boycott. I've got a couple of these left here. I've got probably like 15 in the town site that we gotta get. Okay. This is the basic message we're trying to get out, is for people to stand with us against the corporate greed that we're dealing with. And boycotting Bolthouse Farms and Grimway Farms, boycotting carrots. I feel like we as a community, we completely got sucker punched. I mean, we just totally got punched in the face by them. We can't just turn around and just let them push us around. I mean, we're not going to be bullied just because, you know, we're, you know, small farmers. We call, you know, David versus Goliath. You know, we're the small guy versus the very large guy. Here, carrots are farmed using hundreds of automatic sprinklers. An extremely inefficient method of irrigation, especially on very hot days. You can see right here, especially in the sunlight, how these sprinklers are going to get out. They're going to go and they're going to go for months, months, and they'll just keep moving it. But they'll keep moving it down the section here. But the water for like eight hours of time right here on this section, what they're pumping right now, right now as we speak, in probably five minutes of their pumping is more than what I'll pump in one year. In 2022, Grimway and Bolthouse pumped more than 35 million cubic meters of water. To the point where groundwater levels reached a critical threshold in some places, as indicated in red on the map. Jake and Charlie want to convince locals and tourists passing through the area to join their fight. How are you guys? Where do you want me to put them? I actually had them right there. Okay. Done. Most of Kuyama's approximately 600 residents support the boycott. Dr. Chenay, how are you, sir? Cool, thank you. The beginnings of the conflict go back to 2014. Following a historic drought, California ordered its counties to create a water management plan and to anticipate usage restrictions. But Bolthouse and Grimway contested the plan in court. They even went as far as attacking all groundwater users in the area in order to monopolize the resource. How's it going, Lee? Jake, how are you doing? Good, how are you? Mr. Bolthouse. Lee, how are you? Good, good, good. This is the original paperwork from 2021. Basically, you have the plaintiffs, which is Bolthouse Land Company, Grimway Enterprises, Diamond Farming Company, Lapis Land Company. They, against all persons claiming to write to extract or store groundwater in the Kuyama Valley. If you have a stake here in the Kuyama Valley, you're getting sued. Yeah. Their tactic here is to put that strain on us. Because if we drop out of this lawsuit, if we stop being represented, then basically they get to move forward with whatever they want to do. It's a terrible situation. In order to secure their rights to groundwater, all landowners have to defend themselves. And the legal fees can be substantial. Charlie has paid over $14,000. And Lee Harrington, who manages a large pistachio farm, has already spent more than $50,000. This is our monthly fees to the attorneys. This is the bottom line right now. You just conserve. You know, we haven't had vacation. Me and my wife, we haven't went anywhere zero. But it's not just farmers that have to defend themselves to keep their rights to the groundwater. Individuals, and even public institutions do as well, like this small public school in Kuyama, led by Alfonso Gaminno. Their legal fees have already reached $20,000, even though the school is short of funds. Hey, Terry. Just wanted to see if you have the legal fees budget. Oh, yeah. Can we review real quick? Sure. All right. So what do we have? This is last year, so it's a very simple report when we started doing this. I was hoping that they would leave the schools out because the schools are government schools, really. So I was thinking, at first, we did not get this notice. So I'm thinking, oh, good, maybe they're going to leave the school out. And that's what I was hoping. I was very optimistic. But then we got the letter. $20,000 for us. We can do a lot with that. Computers for the students. Our teachers, you know, just keeping our teachers employed. My biggest fear is that this just may be the beginning. We may spend this $25,000, and we may still be in this case for the next 10 years, 15 years. These legal proceedings threaten the future of this school and its students. Okay. Be very careful with the water. We don't want to spill it unless we go on the plant. We don't want to waste water. We requested an interview with the two carrot companies, but they refused to answer our questions. Our next stop is North Carolina, a state specialized in industrial-scale chicken farming. Around one billion chickens are raised each year, many in these gigantic factory farms, crammed together without ever seeing the light of day. Larry Baldwin, from the Association Water Keepers, is working to call out this type of farming. Hey, Reagan. Hey. How you doing, my friend? Just great. Good. Good to see you again. Good to see you. Be off the ground very quickly. According to this environmental activist, the way chickens are reared and held is unacceptable. Look out here. Boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. Just seeing CAFO after CAFO. CAFOs, which stands for Concentrated Animal Feeding Operation, are these big white buildings. Poultry farming has increased some 30% in 20 years here. It has become increasingly easy to enter the industry. So now you don't have to get a permit to raise poultry. All you have to have is a building permit from your local county government, so the state doesn't even know where they are. We have more information than the state of North Carolina does as to where these facilities are located. We're going to go to the other side of the field and grab this over. Again, it's just, it's one of those things that you're, you know, your mind just want to go, boom! It's mind-blowing that we've gotten to that point. And the state government is protecting these industries against the will of the public, or the benefit of the public. According to Waterkeepers, there are almost 5,000 farms in North Carolina as of 2024. The industry has a severe impact on the environment, according to the activists. Larry and his colleague Jeff say that this is one of the biggest chicken farms in the country, with a total of 48 buildings. I've never heard of any, having more barns in one place. I estimated that every year this operation would have 8 and a half to 11 and a half million burns. These fans, which help regulate the temperature inside the buildings, also release ammonia gas, which is toxic to the environment. The gas forms when the chicken waste comes into contact with material on the facility floor. The staggering numbers of chickens means staggering amounts of waste. We've heard estimates of between 4 and 4 and a half pounds of waste per chicken in its lifetime. It is staggering the amount of waste that's being produced in this very concentrated area. Our environment can't sustain it. It can't handle it. The waste is then spread untreated in the fields. Or it ends up in the waterways. The state does little to effectively regulate the industry, leading to consequences for residents in North Carolina. This hamlet is right next to a pig farm and an industrial scale poultry farm. Every day, Anne, her sister Linda, here with the hat, and her daughter Tayaka breathe in an unbearable acrid smell. That right there, that's as close as you can get. Because basically they are in my back door. Y'all smell it. Y'all smell it. Y'all smell it. You smell it coming from this way? Mm-hmm. And that's just a little bit. That's just a little bit of what you normally smell. The smell would be so bad. It would take your breath. It takes your breath. It's so, so strong that you feel, you taste it. Yeah. When you swallow, you open your mouth, you taste it. I hate it. Right. But this is where I'm from. This is where I was born and raised. I'm not going nowhere. That need to go. They need to do something about that. Tap water in Anne's house is no longer drinkable, so the family has to buy bottled water. All three women say they're suffering from respiratory problems. And above all, they lament the early deaths of several members of their family, including their mother, who died more than 11 years ago. My mom always had this, um, she couldn't stand smells. No. She had real, real bad allergies. And coughs all the time. Mm-hmm. That was, that was way before she even got cancer. Mm-hmm. It's all, cause she's always, she's always lived here. Mm-hmm. And then not only my mom had cancer. And everyone in the- When you got, when you got like five people in one community- And all of them come down with cancer. Cancer. All of them. And they live here? Mm-hmm. It's impossible to say for certain whether there is a direct link between these deaths and industrial farming. But a study conducted in Pennsylvania found that people living near industrial chicken farms had a 66% higher chance of developing respiratory diseases. A two hour drive away sits a former intensive farm. Tom Lim used to raise around 500,000 chickens per year here. These days he condemns the industry and says it's a machine designed to destroy both people and animals. You can see it's all white and, um, it got no room to walk and it's just crowded. It's too tight inside. In 1999, he became a farmer contracted to one of the global poultry giants. Pilgrims. A subsidiary of JBS. One of the big four mentioned earlier. Full of hope, Tom borrowed a significant sum of money to build and equip these buildings. Uh, first I'm very proud. I think that this business will make me have a lot of money. Will make me rich or something. So we own the farm, we own the land, we own the chicken house, we own everything. We don't own the chicken, we just own the land and everything. But the company owns the chicken. So they bring us chicken for us to take care. And they pay us, like, for a babysit. Like, we do, like, babysit for them. Tom quickly realized that the company had him in a stranglehold. They kept demanding higher and higher yields, and eventually he couldn't keep up. They asked me more, like, to upgrade. So I have to win, go to the bank, borrow more money. Different bank and upgrade. Even though the company, like, gives me a hard time. Gives me a lot of stress, gives me a lot of pressure. Do this, do that. Or you don't have chicken or something like that. I have to stay quiet and keep on working. After 20 years, everything fell apart. Tom's chicken sheds were judged to be obsolete in 2018, and he lost his contract with Pilgrims. Crippled by debt, he barely had enough to live on. Until he met this man. I'm good, how you doing? Good to see you. Good to see you, yes. Good to see you. Good to see you. Tyler Whitley campaigns for sustainable agriculture and helps factory farmers to change their career path. While working for TransFarmation, he helped Tom launch a new business. Mushroom farming. These look a little small here. Yeah. But these look better at the harvest. This business is more ethical, organic, quick, and profitable. It only required $10,000 of initial investment. What's really great about this kind of work is that Tom's in control. So like you see, he only has some of the space filled because he wants to start slow, and he wants to build a sustainable business. But once he has enough customers, he can fill the whole space. Demand for produce from small farms is growing in the U.S. In California, close to Donaire, we met farmers whose methods are simple and healthy. Rosie Burrows is a passionate environmentalist and rodeo fan, as is the rest of her family. This is our pleasure, our enjoyment. So instead of going to Disneyland or something like that, this is where cowboys come and have fun. This is about working with the herd in a quiet fashion. This Sunday morning, Rosie was supporting her son, her grandson... Good job, Trey. Way to... way to... And her husband, Ward, who's still riding strong at 72. We're like four or five more teams. So I'm lucky that I have a beautiful horse that takes care of me. He knows more than I do. I know that. I'll give you a tad on the team. The couple champions an entirely organic, back-to-basics approach to farming. Organic farming comprises less than 1% of farmed land in the U.S., compared to about 10% in the EU. That...oh, that's enormous! No, that's all right, you're fine. On Rosie and Ward's land, chickens are raised out in the open. They're able to scratch the earth and eat grass, worms, and insects at their leisure. It's unfortunate that around 1950, the way all of us were taught is about the goal being maximum production with high inputs. And now our paradigm shift is going for working with Mother Nature, but also about caring for all of all the ecosystems that are part of the planet. On the couple's 3,000-hectare farm, sheep graze between the trees. And cows graze pastures in rotation. Come on! Come on! Okay, here they come. Come on! A rotation system means that the cows always have fresh grass to eat. Rosie and her husband Ward are pioneers of what is called regenerative farming, which focuses on keeping the soil healthy. Here's a conventional almond field, versus Rosie and Ward's field, which is a lot greener. Okay, let's crack that up. This is amazing right here. Again, crimson clover is… Around their almond trees, the couple have planted a whole range of different plants. This is a pea that we've planted, nitrogen fixer. This vine… that's this vine that we're looking at. This allows underground microorganisms to develop, and even keeps the soil cool. What we're after is trying to cover this soil. During the summertime, our soil is so hot here, that if we can cover, if we can keep this ground covers, we can make a difference with 2 or 3 degrees Fahrenheit. Alright, let's see what we've got here. And the soil texture, how does it feel? Yeah, it's really moist and pretty nice. Yeah, there you've got some right there. We found 30 worms in one shovel full, right in the middle of cold winter and frost. It was just amazing to see all the life in it. Yeah, that's beautiful, Ward. Thanks to this radically different technique, the soil on this farm is rich and full of life. But this type of farming does require more work, which means an extra cost to the consumer. Rosie and Ward's almonds are 30% more expensive. The only other thing we have to do is we have to make sure that these products are accepted in the marketplace. So consumers have to support the farmers that are doing this. Otherwise, nothing works. The couple advocate for awareness. And it's working. Over the past years, demand for organic produce has been rising steadily in the U.S.