Three 'Must Haves' For Farm Equipment Dealers Just Getting Into Precision Equipment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=albM5pD9XJs
Science & Technology
 Yeah, I think, you know, number one is you got to be dedicated and want to offer the services and sell the equipment. This isn't something you sell off the part shelf and you sell it and you're done with it. It's something that you need to be able to work closely with your growers and provide those services and teach them and help them grow. In their operation and as their operation grows and they get more comfortable, you start adopting more technology. So you've really got to be dedicated to really wanting to provide this service. Number two, with that dedication, you need to be able to be dedicated to training and becoming knowledgeable and staying up on the technology. You know, as technology changes, there's always something new every year. You have to be dedicated to offering, you know, or providing training to your customers as well as getting training from the corporate companies. And number three, you know, just really be there for your customer and help them want to grow and, you know, be smart and understand their operations. And depending on the farm or the size of the farm or the fields, you know, if it's a field with a farm with a lot of irregular shaped fields, maybe clutch control is the best thing to put in so that you can save on seat costs because you're getting so much overlap. Maybe it's a field that's really straight and long and that kind of stuff. Maybe steering is better. Or maybe it's yield monitoring is the most important thing to start with so that you can start getting a report card on the management changes you're making in your operation. How are they affecting? How effective are they? And where do we go next? So, you know, just working with your growers very closely. Yeah, so the Blue Delta dealer program is something we started a few years ago and it's really the best of the best. It's our elite Precision Ag dealers. It's the dealers that are dedicated to staying up on the technology, going to training several times a year. They carry parts and service and stock and inventory. And they're just generally dedicated to Precision Ag and to helping your operation get the most out of the technology that you're investing in. And we provide additional resources and support to those dealers and get additional discount. They get, you know, in front, in the line for service, phone calls coming in. You know, there's marketing opportunities that are provided to them that the other dealers are not. So there's ways that we promote their dealership as being an elite Precision Farming dealership. And then they also get help on the service side that they're kind of the front line for us. And so that's how we create aaction from the cost of the vehicle. And we're doing online things at the car. We're doing online things at the car. We are right. We can get on it. We're doing online. So that's how we take off the bins. Kindness is showing something with all that information so we can get to learn about EHR stories. So that we know it's a research that we know there's going to be more frequently, right through our Pulüyorsun appartcials. And they're going to have an武裝 called San About Symbolut. And we're doing online things at the 然後Fanии Company.