Dripworks Irrigation Install Part 1
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=allNrz1gVxs
Howto & Style
 Hi, I'm Farmer Brad and I'm in the high tunnel. The next step, install some irrigation. Now, I already had this header pipe. It's a lay flat pipe, two inches in diameter, and what I'm going to do is right behind here is where the water tower is going to be. So the water tower will gravity feed down here, but I want to leave this door open so I can drive my tractor up and down. So what I'm going to do is run this two inch pipe all the way down to the end of the high tunnel. I'll do a 90 and then I'll run three quarter inch hose across the end and then that will end up feeding the drip tape. Now, I want to bring to your attention a company named Dripworks. Dripworks. They specialize in irrigation drip tapes, small and large, and they were kind enough to donate 500 feet of three quarter inch poly pipe and that will run from the ram pump to the water tower. They also included a medium size irrigation system for a high tunnel that I'll be using in the next couple videos. But today's goal is getting this hooked up to the garden hose initially and then eventually this two inch will connect to the water tower. This will at least get the irrigation system up and running and then I'll take you along for the rest of the things. So make sure to check out dripworks.com for all of your irrigation needs and definitely wanted to thank them for their sponsorship. of these irrigation videos. So without further ado, I'll go ahead and start the process. Okay, so the first thing I'll do is I'll put this 90 degree on and what eventually this will happen is it will go vertical up to the water tower. But at least for now, I'll just run a short little section of hose and then I'll be able to connect it onto here. I'll just cut a section here. And then make sure to put on one of those clamps. If it is a really snug fit, you can take a torch and heat it up to stretch it. So then I'll cut another little section here. And then lastly, another hose clamp and put this right here. Okay, so I'm going to tighten up this hose clamp. And then lastly, another hose clamp and put this right here. Okay, so I'm going to tighten up this hose clamp. I'm going to liquid it. Okay, so that's on there. I'll go ahead and hook up the garden hose. So I'm using the same garden hose adapter that I use for the automatic chicken water buckets. And just as a safety measure, I'll put Teflon tape on this part. So now I'll take my channel locks and tighten it up as tight as I can. Okay. I'm going to move this back into position where it will meet B. Up against there. Now let's go to the other end. So I'm going to find a spot over here. Probably like right about there to tie this in. Put that on there. Okay. Before I got any further, I wanted to go over the medium-sized irrigation system for a high tunnel. So it includes, I think, 100 feet of half-inch poly pipe. And this is what I'll use to feed the drip tape. Well, it has a filter here. It has where you can splice into here to run the drip tape. It has spikes for keeping the irrigation in place. Let's see. Oh, these are for tying off the ends of the drip tape. So you can terminate them by just flipping them over in half. And then these are little plastic pieces that slide over the end. And then here are some pressure regulators to decrease the pressure from pressure regulator down to 10 psi so you don't overblow your system. There's a little puncture tool for puncturing the holes in this to connect these little parts. And then there's also some repair kits where if there's a hole, you can cut the leaking area and then splice the two parts together. So that's pretty much what is included in the system. They also, which I'm really excited about this, dripworks provide me with a Bluetooth hose end irrigation controller. So this you'll be able to control via Bluetooth, set the schedules as long as you're within range of Bluetooth. So that will be really awesome. So then I can set timing for watering and the such. So unfortunately I don't have another clamp. So I'm just going to try to terminate this by doing the foldback method and some Gorilla tape. And then you point these areas back. There we go. So that should terminate that. Hopefully that will do the trick for that. Now here, I'm going to unscrew this and have it go from 3 quarter inch down to half an inch. Okay, so now I'm going to heat this up a little bit. Slide it on there. Slide it on there. And then I'll do the same thing with here. Okay. Okay. I'll do the same thing with here. And then we'll dissipate here. Okay. That's tight. I'll go ahead and take some of these to help keep it straight. Okay, so to terminate this end, what I'll do is I'll cut this off and I'll flip it back. So because this hose is pretty tight, I'm going to just use this clamp here to fold us over. This is where the video is going to have to end. I wasn't able to get any further because there was a storm coming in. So look forward to irrigation part two in an upcoming video. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.