Farm Basics #1063 Manure vs Compost (Air Date 8-19-18)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AmjvmRX5jHI
Education
 . One of the things we've been working on here at Ag PhD for the last few years is some products that can actually turn manure into compost much more quickly than the natural process. So today we wanted to talk just a little bit during our Farm Basics time about what is compost and why is it so much more beneficial than manure. What a great question, Brian, because we look at manure as being this desirable commodity for farmers to be able to apply because of the fertility value that's in the manure. However, there are a lot of negative things about handling straight manure. For example, you've got a lot of moisture in there, so you've got to haul around all this extra weight. So if you want to haul 10 tons, for example, half of it might just be water and not really doing you any good, so that's a waste. Another negative factor with manure is the amount of weed seed that's in it. Think about it. For the animals that are eating plants and eating feeds that sources, there's often weed seeds in there and it just passes right through the animal's digestive system, and now when you spread the manure you have more weeds in the field. So we don't like that either. We also don't like that manure is really inconsistent. So as you're spreading it across the field you're not getting exactly the same dose of nutrients everywhere you're spreading it, and there are several other things as well that are negative about manure which could lead you to, well I need to do something with this manure. Composting could be a great alternative. So how composting occurs is there are bacteria that will break that manure down, they'll turn a bunch of the carbon into carbon dioxide, and there will be a release of carbon dioxide and a release of water. The pile shrinks down dramatically. During this whole process the temperature in that pile will go a lot of times up to 130 to even 170 degrees. So during that conversion it's going to kill weeds, insects, diseases, most pathogens that may be in there. So what you end up with is a lot more environmentally friendly product, a lot better product for fields, it's awesome. And it doesn't have nearly the smell that manure has. So what's the potential downside with compost? Well it's the fact that a lot of the nutrients in there are going to get released over a period of years, rather with manure, a lot of that nutrient availability happens in the first year. Now hold up Brian, this could be actually a positive. Let's say that I've got a hog unit on my farm and I've got enough manure to spread over 500 acres, but I only farm 500 acres and I think, wow I don't want a full dose every year, or maybe I've got more hogs than I have acres, now what do I do? I've got to find somebody else to take some of that manure. By composting now, I'm going to have a lower amount of nutrients available this year, which means I could actually spread a little bit more of that compost out on my field. Well that could be a positive benefit for me. Also when you look at manure management programs, there's a limit to how many nutrients you can put on per year. If you're composting, that could free you up from a lot of those requirements in that you're not going to have that fast nutrient release. So yes, there's some trade-offs here. You are going to have a little less nutrient availability year one, but that might be a good thing in many cases. The normal process of composting will typically take three to six months, but what we've been working on at Ag PhD is we've now found a product decomp that's actually able to turn manure into compost in about four to five weeks without all the turning that you usually have to do, in other words flipping that pile over, introducing more oxygen. You don't have to do that with this particular product and all the different bacteria that are in there, so we're super excited about that. And again, we just wanted to talk today about why compost is important, why we feel a lot of farmers in the future are going to end up going to compost rather than manure, both in the feedlots and out in their fields. Well compost certainly is a creative solution to many of the problems that manure presents. We'll give you some solutions to our Weed of the Week coming up later in the show.