Unknown Title
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Arw_qzO4GM8
Unknown Category
 Good afternoon everybody. My name is Asayal. I am a small fruit entomologist at University of Georgia and today I am going to talk about insect management for commercial strawberry production. In today's talk we will discuss season at a glance, pests which pests occur, what time of the year for strawberries, then their management again will take a season at a glance look at their management options that we have. Then I will discuss a few select pests in detail in terms of their biology and management. At the end I will cover some aspects of pollinator management which obviously are important in strawberry production systems. So when we look at a sort of a season at a glance, the pests of strawberries starting with the transplant, cutworms and aphids are important here at this stage of strawberries. And when you will look at this season at a glance slide, the leaf, green leaf shows that they are, they feed on leaves. Strawberry shows they feed on fruit or flowers. And this, these sticks will show that they feed on stems or branches of strawberries. So cut worms of course feed on stems as well as foliage. Aphids, they are sucking pests and they suck primarily on the leaves. Going, moving on into winter, sort of later part of winter, two spider mites, they start, they all go all the way through flowering into fruit group growth period. And feed on, on foliage of the, uh, uh, uh, of the strawberries. Then thrips also, they feed on flowers for the most part, during flowering until, uh, fruit, initial fruit growth period as well. Strawberry clipper, again, feeds on flowers, uh, and, uh, uh, sometimes, uh, smaller fruits. Uh, also, aphids again are important this time of the, uh, blueberry growing season. Then we, as new warm lady, uh, ligus bugs, uh, on, especially on day neutral strawberries, come into play at early food, starting with early fruit growth stage, going all the way to harvest. Then we, during the harvest, we have serious issues, including set beetles, corn earworms, and spotted wing drosophila. Spotted wing drosophila has become more important for strawberries recently than it has been in the past, as compared to some other berry crops, where it has been key pest ever since it was detected in the mainland U.S. So now we, when we look at, uh, management of those pests instead of a season at a glance look, when we look at post planting fall to early to mid winter, crickets are important. We do have a couple options to spray cutworms. Uh, the cyclamen mites are important. We do have some miticide options. Fire ants, obviously we can use those, uh, baits that are available here. And this screen that I am showing you now, it comes directly from Southeast Small Fruit Consortium strawberry IPM guide. And a number of researchers from the region can get together every year to update this guide. So this is one of the best resources for you to learn about pest and disease management for strawberries. I highly recommend I'll share, I'll show you the main screen and link to access that in the end. So, and then two spider spider mites, obviously we have a number of miticide options. Then we move on to pre-harvest or bloom time, late winter to early spring, aphids, fire ants, flower thrips, slugs, and snails, strawberry clippers, two spotted spider mites. These are major pest, insect pest, or other pest issues of strawberries. And this slide does list options that we have to control them. Then we moved into the harvest period. Fire ants obviously still become a issue. Sat beetles, slugs, and snails have become serious issues if we don't manage the moisture in the fields. Spotted ringgisophila obviously is, is one of the key pests. Tarnish plant bugs in mites. They are still, mites can be problem year-round for strawberries. Now I will get into, you know, this gives you a season at a glance look, but I will show you, share with you a little bit of details on some of the select pests. So one thing before we get into annual plasticulture practices do limit many pests of strawberries. For example, strawberry root bevel, cyclamen mites. They do, this particular system does help minimize impact of those, those pests and also root nibbling diseases. Starting with the two spotted spider mites. Two spotted spider mites, they're, it's very small, they're sort of difficult to see without hand lens. Adults are translucent greenish yellow to rusty brown or orange red in color. They're about a half millimeter long oval bodies of those mites have two distinct dark spots on, one on each side, and which are, which is sort of a distinguished, distinguishing feature to separate these mites from other groups. This is actually accumulation of waste products within the body that is visible to their body wall. Eggs are clear, white, and spherical. Newly hatched larvae have only six legs compared to the eight legs as they grow into older nymphs and adults. They develop all four pairs of legs. Two spotted spider mites. The rate of development is highly variable and it is dependent on temperature, ranging from five to 20 days to complete their cycle from egg to adult. So females, basically, they have about two to four weeks lifespan and the female can lay several hundred eggs during that time, which are enclosed in a fine silk webbing. Eggs hatch in about three days and then six-legged larvae emerge and undergo through two more things, two mores to achieve the two nymphal stages. And then adults emerge after the second nymphal stage and then adults, they obviously restart the whole process. That whole process can be completed within five to 20 days depending on temperature and other conditions. Spider mite feeding on the…they primarily feed on undersides of the leaves and sometimes stems also. They cause initial stippling, which is shown in the picture on the bottom left on the screen instead of a white spot and eventually lead to chlorotic yellowing or sometimes it's called bronzing or graying of the leaves. And in severe cases, necrotic and defoliation…necrosis and defoliation can occur when populations are not controlled. Leaf deformities, stunted growth, paddle browning, wilt and reduced fruit quality…quantity and yield…quantity and quality are obviously the outcomes. These mites produce silky webbing and leave behind skin castings and feces that reduce plants' aesthetic value and ability to further synthesize. Monitoring is relatively easy. In a plant that is up to 10 acres in size, you need to collect only 10 mid-tier leaflets per acre and observe them under 10x handlings. If the field is larger than 10 acres, then only five leaflets per acre would suffice. And thresholds is if you have five mites per leaflet early in the season, that may be…that may warrant application of miticides. Or if you have 10 mites per leaflet during fruit in season, then that is when you need to make spray applications to control them. There are a number of options that I showed you in the season at the last slide as well. Acromite, Vigilant, Cane mite, Nialta. These are effective against all stages of Barron, Seve, Zeal. They are effective against eggs and juveniles. Portal agrimac, again juveniles and adults. MP, Horticultural oils. These are organic…organically approved products which can be used for organic production. And predatory mites obviously are the biocontrol option if you want to go that route. The next pest group that I will discuss today is sap beetles. Sap beetles feed on overripe fruit and are attracted to the cults produced by micro… microorganisms feeding on this rotten fruit. It can be problematic in peach plum and apple production systems as well. At least three species of ripe fruit feeding beetles are pests of southeastern strawberries. There are no thresholds developed for sap beetles in strawberries at this point. Observe ripe fruit when it's picking surface damage and tunneling. If a harvest is anticipated to run long or if beetle damage is suspected, bait buckets placed at the edge of the field will attract small adults…adult beetles. So that's…that's one way to control that. And cultural control is highly recommended for sap beetles because there are registered chemicals but those chemicals can cause issues with…during the harvest. We don't want to leave too much residues in there. We want to minimize the pesticide application during that harvest time. Bait buckets can also obviously serve as one cultural control strategy. Thrips…now Thrips is another pest that has recently been problematic in…in some situations. Especially these chili thrips…they are serious pests in Florida and have been detected in Georgia as well. I'm not sure the status of chili thrips in Alabama. But they are…they have emerged as a serious issues. Though both larvae and adults feed on…on strawberries underside the leaves, they have…they have been detected in the leaves, they have been detected in the leaves, they have been several times intercepted in…at the ports in…in Florida and have been established in Florida since 2005. And in strawberries they have become serious issue since 2015. And now this is one of the key pests…or one of the major pests in strawberry…systems in Florida. Achillithrips…they…as I mentioned they have…fearcing sucking mouth parts. And they feed on underside of the leaves to suck juice and that leads to darkening of the leaflet and midriff. As you see in this picture on the left side of the screen. That can lead to leaf curling of the strawberries and the image in the middle shows that severe case scenarios of just chili tips symptoms and sometimes it also leads to bronzing and cracking of the fruit when it's extreme situation. Several studies have been done in Florida as I mentioned this issue in particular is predominant in Florida so lots of work has been done in Florida and they have developed management programs based on products here. Spinatoram, Chloranid, Traniliprol, and Acetamiprit which is Delegate, Assail, and Ciazepir or Axrel. These are effective products for management obviously broad spectrum insecticides. These all three of these products are reduced risk products which is a better option to choose if there is a choice but they'll be slightly more expensive likely. Then you have broad spectrum choices like bifantrine which will be relatively less effective but can be used in some situations and there'll be less expensive option if you want to go that route. Then we also have some biorational options that can be used for organic or other reduced risk type systems which include Azera and Microtrol and interestingly these entomopathogenic nematodes when they were applied two times they provided really good results. So these options are also available for organic growers and also other systems where reduced risk option is desired. Now let's get into spotted wing disaphyla which is a key pest in most of the berry crops and is becoming increasingly important for strawberry systems. Not only in the southeast but across the country even in California it has recently become serious issue in strawberry systems as well. It was originally discovered in strawberries in California in 2008 to 2009 as you see on this screen sort of increase spread of this invasive pest across the mainland U.S. 2009 all west coast in Florida and then from that point on it just quickly spread across the country in 2015 we just stopped monitoring it because it was everywhere you looked. A spotted wing name comes from these two dark spots on the exterior margins of the male wings that's where the spotted wing name comes from and males can also be identified using these two black calms as a feature on the front legs. Females of this species are uniquely blessed with this very sclerotized and serrated ovipositor that they use to lay eggs in otherwise healthy fruit. Larvae develop inside the fruit and start feeding into the whole generation from egg laying to adult emergence can be completed in eight to ten days at 25 degrees centigrade which can happen faster if the temperature is higher. So this kind of tells that this fly can go through several generations in one field season. Over here is just images using blueberries we generated this image of how the fruit damage progresses starting from oviposition to basically rottening up the complete unmarketable fruit. It takes about three to four days. Beyond that is fruit is not marketable. Overall impact of this fly was estimated to be 718 million dollars in the U.S. It was estimated in 2014. Plus additional management costs included about 120 million, 129 million dollars. Which means it's approximately a billion dollar pest when you look at take all the crops into account. Starting with the monitoring initially we have used these 32 ounce plastic cups made it with the yeast sugar slurry which is kind of a messy. If you leave it for a week it's become stinky and more than that it becomes really stinky and not easy to manage. Recently several states have participated in these studies to develop these dry traps which is a red sticky card baited with these commercially available lowers and they provided comparable results and we are recommending this now for monitoring of SWD these these sticky red sticky card based traps. We did monitoring for several years in in Georgia blueberries and what we noticed is that flies were actively around they don't sleep during the winter or slow down they just stick around and what more interestingly what but but you can see in this slide is that numbers were higher in the wooded areas nearby than the field themselves for the most part of the year so it means there is obviously alternative host plants that occur in the wooded areas as you see in this picture we have tall pines that are mostly around the blueberry orchards here are other crops including strawberries but the understory is filled with several other species and when we looked within those several species plants were identified where SWD females were able to lay eggs and complete development in many of those plants in the woods so there's something that we need to do to eliminate those to those alternative hosts which will help in the long term but for now management is includes biological control chemical control behavioral and cultural control biological control this being invasive species biological control is is very complicated a lot of work has been done on classical bio control by large teams of researchers from multiple institutions after eight to ten years of work finally we were able to get permits of to release those exotic parasitores that we imported from native regions of SWD China and South Korea and several states are now building up the colonies to test to release those in the field and see how they will help control SWD currently there is no bio control in the field based on our native parasitores all right so chemical control is the primary means to control it I'm just showing you this one slide which was the first attempt to control SWD back in 2012 you see very few options primarily organophosphorus and pyrethroids with spinosins now look at this this is where we stand right now we have lots of options chemical options to control SWD they belong to several chemical classes which means we have the option to do really nice resistance management which is highly recommended because resistance has become a major issue in California in in many cropping systems there we haven't seen resistance in other states yet but some states have started to show initial signs of it so highly recommended that growers implement resistance management by rotating products from one class to another when you look at organic management that's where we are in trouble because entrust is the only one that has good efficacy but even that doesn't touch the line of threshold of being good so it means we need to add additional non-chemical components to make sure we are able to control SWD in organic systems here are some sample management season-long management programs again these are just a set of samples there now we have several chemical options that can be included and in general weekly applications are recommended in organic systems we have to make some chemicals don't have week-long residues we need to go back after three days to make sure we protect the fruit against this fly when we have a sort of a decenience to make for the whole season it is highly recommended that you start with the highest heaviest chemicals which means the most effective chemicals as you see here in first slide the note intervention in the second slide it started with low efficacy product and still fly populations sustained they did not disappear however in the third picture when you see here the highly effective product was used it knocked the flight populations down and then you can use low efficacy and mid efficacy product for the rest of the season to maintain that low level of populations which will not cause economic damage all of the products obviously when we talk about insecticides they do have harmful effects against beneficial insects so we need to keep that in mind even organic products do have negative effects on beneficial insects so we need to always keep that in mind one thing we can do to minimize the non-target effects of those insecticides is to spray during the dawn and dusk times when flies are active in the field themselves and we can basically expose flies to direct spray residues rather than spraying other times of the day when they are not active and then relying on their exposure to the residues which may not be as as strong and may not be as effective so recommending it is recommended to spray during the dawn and dusk and the other benefit is that less beneficials are active during that time of the day so that helps in in many ways now moving on to behavioral control we have tested several behavioral control strategies the goal is to develop attract and kill approach where we have an attractant that can attract flies away from the fruit and then we have a toxicant mixed in it to kill them by the residues so this one technology that was developed by ISCA technologies company based in California we tested several years ago and it did show some promise as you see the other three it reduced this it was 87 percent less fruit infestation and when this particular product was applied which was an attractant mixed with insecticide and in this case insecticide was spinosade now the same company is developing these new formulations which are even more attractive however the difference is that these new farm TD formulation and OR formulation. TD in particular is the most effective and this is just by itself attracted by itself. It's sold as adjuvant. It is currently in EPA for a consideration to be commercially available. Hopefully this will be available later this season or next year. This is sold as adjuvant itself and farmers will need to mix insecticide of their choice with it to use this as a attract and kill too. Other chemical CombiProtect was developed in Europe and several labs. We tested it last year here in the U.S. and we found that even half rate of entrust can give us just as much activity as fuller rate of entrust. So or even more in slightly more in some cases. So this is really good product. Again, currently in EPA to be considered for registration as adjuvant and hopefully this will be available later this season or next year. Cultural controls. Again, these are really important. The goal here is to modify the environment to make the environment less attractive for SWD. SWD flies are very sensitive to temperature and humidity. They don't like high temperatures and they don't like dry conditions. So what can we do to change, modify the environment? So yes, in this case we can do, okay, so let me go through one by one by one. First starting with exclusion. That's one cultural practice or strategy that you can use to cover the fruit production area or berries themselves, keep the flies out. This is one foolproof technology that can use, but it is expensive. However, some farmers I have talked to, they have repurposed their currently used materials in part and in part and in part they got new materials to make it more economically feasible. But once you have it installed, it does work as a foolproof technology to control SWD, keep the flies away. Irrigation is, you know, most of the fruit production does need irrigation system. If you have the option, use drip irrigation as compared to the overhead irrigation because drip irrigation creates less humidity in the canopy zones and that is, that helps keep the SWD populations lower in the fruiting zone. Mulching is another way to control SWD. The principle here is that when flies, larvae are fully fed inside the fruit, they come out of the fruit and drop to the ground to pupate. If we have a black weed mat or some mulch on the ground to prevent larvae from getting into the ground to pupate, they will get toasted and killed on the surface. That again has been a very useful way to control the SWD flies in high pressure situations. Pruning is, is the other way to change the canopy environment. When you, we do heavy pruning, but it does, it allows more light through the canopy into the fruiting zone where flies are likely to spend most of the time to infest fruit. And it does reduce humidity a little bit. So that slight increase in temperature and decrease in humidity does lower fly population in that zone to help with SWD control. Harvest frequency is again important. If you leave ripe fruit out in the field for too long, that is very attractive to flies and flies will have more opportunity to infest. So remove the ripe fruit as frequently as possible. That will minimize the risk of fruit infestation by SWD. Sanitation is again extremely important because ripe rotten fruit on the ground is attractive for flies. They will be attracted from other surroundings into the field if they have more of that rotten fruit. So keep the field clean. Any ripe, overripe, rotten fruit must be removed as soon as possible. And you can do, deal with it two ways. Number one is either seal them in the plastic bags, leave them for two to three days in direct sun. That will kill all flies. Or you can bury them at least two feet in the ground to make sure that larvae or pupae or flies don't come out again to become source of infestation. Last part is the post-harvest. Once you have harvested fruit and you suspect there may be infestation, it's always possible to control that or kill those larvae if you can store the fruit at 36 degrees Fahrenheit for up to three days. This will allow more time time for you to market the fruit and also it will kill majority of the larvae inside the fruit. All right. So when we talk about strawberries, pollinators are extremely important and there is very little information about wild pollinators in particular which are extremely important for pollination in strawberries. So strawberry yield of course and quality is increased with insect pollination. And what do you mean by pollinator health in this system which is currently one of the major issues and we need to take care of it. A couple of things that can be, you know, part of this whole concept of, you know, how do we look at pollinator health? Pesticide use of course can negatively affect pollinator health. Bee densities. How many bees do we have in the field and landscape? What other sources of these bees can feed off of? And then that contributes to overall population and their activity in the field that leads to pollination. These are the key or general pollinators that we anticipate. The first one is any bees of course and the other ones are wild bees that play a key role in pollination in southeastern systems. So what we look for, what is this kind of a diagram shows you the red, more red means more negative for pesticide, more negative for bees and lighter color means better system. So first on the top left corner is, you know, more pesticides and the top down lower right corner is the least amount of pesticides. So that is the best one for bees. Bottom line, when, you know, the C and IPM is all about making decisions and when to take management action is based on understanding of which pests are present. And if we need to identify those pests, how many of those pests are there, what type of injury are they causing and how that injury translates into yield loss. We need to know that by active sampling, active monitoring of those pests. And once we know that, then we can get into making that management decisions. Then what management tools are available and what we can select to make sure that we will control the pest, but also we will not harm the beneficial insects or other beneficial organisms in the field. That is extremely important component of pest management. So now when it comes to management, there is a really important resource that I mentioned earlier is the Southeast Small Fruit Consortium Guide that is developed and updated every year for the whole region. It's available at smallfruit.org. If you go online, smallfruit.org, you can find this guide and other small fruit guides as well. This is just the last, excuse me, this is the last page of that guide which shows, you know, in a one page, all chemicals that are available and which pests they are effective and what is the level of efficacy here. You know, E shows excellence, BG very good, G good, and those things are denoted. This is the last, one of the last, a few of the last pages at the end of the guide. So I highly recommend you using this guide as a resource for strawberry pest management. It has really valuable information. Another resource that was recently, relatively recently created is in my IPM app. It does have information about strawberry diseases and pests as well. So you can download that available for both both Apple and other devices, Android devices. With that, I would like to thank the, my colleagues Hannah Barak, Don Johnson, and Sianika Lahiri, who provided some of the slides that I shared and also my lab team and sponsors that have sponsored our research. With that, I'll take any questions if we have some time. this bill for 20. one is