The Best Cows for Milk on the Homestead [Top 7 Dairy Breeds!]
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aSGvNL126xk
Pets & Animals
 Are you trying to find the best cow for milk or the best dairy cow breed for your homestead? If so, then finding the perfect cow breed is trickier than it seems. Here's why. Each milking cow breed has unique strengths and weaknesses that might play in your favor or work against you, depending upon your homestead, your resources, your needs, and your land. Let's go over our seven top picks for the best dairy cows for your homestead's milk supply so you can make an informed choice as to what breed suits you best. We'll analyze the pros and cons of each dairy cow. We'll also answer the following questions coming from a homesteader's perspective. What makes these cows perfect homestead cows? How much milk do these dairy cows produce? Which of our top picks produce the tastiest milk for cheese and butter? And which cow breeds are the best dual-purpose breeds? Let us find out. 1. The Hallstein Cow Hallstein dairy cows are the typical black and white cows that come to most people's minds when they think of dairy cows. Hallstein dairy cows originated from Holland and made their way to America in the 1850s. Hallstein dairy cows now make up approximately 90% of the cows used for dairy in America's milk production. The reason why Hallsteins are so popular in the American dairy industry is due to their high productivity. If these cows are cared for properly, they can produce nearly 10 to 12 gallons of milk daily. Hallstein dairy cows are also generally easy to work with and they are tremendously docile animals. Hallsteins do, however, need a large amount of feed and a large grazing area as they are on the bigger side in size. Hallstein dairy cows are also known for the large, beautiful eyes. The Jersey cow Jersey cows are a much smaller cow breed compared to the Hallstein. Jersey cows are brown. They are also known for their large, beautiful eyes. Jersey cows first originated from Britain and then made their way to America in the 1850s. They are friendly creatures and they are easy to handle due to their small size. Jersey cows need less feed and grazing area to stay healthy compared to other dairy cows on this list. These beautiful Jersey cows can produce around 8 to 10 gallons of milk per day. Jersey cows produce high quality milk that is ideal for farm fresh cheese and butter. The milk from Jersey cows has a lovely creamy texture resulting in thick, rich, delicious cheese that taste buds will love. 3. The Brown Swiss Cow Brown Swiss cows have the reputation as one of the oldest breeds of cows in existence today. They are originally from Switzerland and arrived in America in 1869. Brown Swiss cows are also known to have big fur years. They are also widely considered the second most productive dairy cows. Their milk is perfect for making cheese as it has a close fat to protein ratio making the cheese full and creamy. These cows are remarkably docile and they are friendly and easy to handle. The Brown Swiss cows are generally around the same size as the Hallstein cows which means that they require a large amount of feed and grazing space to remain healthy in that deep milk production. 4. The Guernsey Cow Guernsey cows are highly regarded and are known as the royal breed because their milk is a delicious golden color. Are you wondering why the Guernsey cow's milk is golden? The milk has a high amount of beta carotene. Beta carotene is a tremendous source of vitamin A but it also seems to give the milk a golden color. Guernsey cows hail from Britain but many homesteaders and farmers believe that Guernsey cows originated from two French cow breeds. The Guernsey cow then made its way to the United States of America in the 1840s. Guernsey cows are excellent for hand milking and are a favorite among small farms as they are friendly and docile. Guernsey cows are a little bit more than a large amount of milk. Due to the Guernsey cow's smaller size they require less grazing space. They also need less feed to keep them healthy and producing a good amount of milk. 5. The Ayrshire Cow Ayrshire cows are orange and brown and they are known for being long living and hardy. These cows used to be called dungloops but it is unknown why their name changed. Ayrshire cows originated from Scotland and arrived in America in the 1820s. Ayrshire cows do tend to be more dominant compared to other cow breeds. They can sometimes be tricky to handle. When you have some experience with cows you should not have much of a problem managing them. These cows are one of the most massive dairy cow breeds and their milk production ranges between that of a Jersey cow and a Halstein cow. Due to their size Ayrshire cows require a large grazing area and a good supply of feed to keep their milk production up and keep them healthy. These cows can produce anywhere from 4 to 6 gallons of milk every day or more. 6. The Milking Shorethorn Cow Milking Shorethorn cows are known to be extremely easy to handle which is why they were one of the first cow breeds to become world travelers. Milking Shorethorn cows first originated from England and they were the first dairy cows brought to New Zealand, America and Australia in the 1780s. Milking Shorethorn cows are highly efficient grazers and they require less feed compared to other cow breeds. However, they also need some feed to ensure they get enough nutrients to produce a good milk supply. These cows are docile and friendly making them perfect for a small farm or homestead. They can produce roughly 4.2 gallons of milk daily. 7. The Dexter Cow The Dexter Cow breed was originally Irish but then imported into America around 1910. Dexter cows are highly popular with small farms and homesteads as they are much smaller cows but they still provide a good amount of milk for their size. Dexter cows will generally reach about 3.2 feet at the shoulder when they are fully grown. The small size of Dexter cows has a few advantages. Dexter cows do not require much grazing space or extra feed to keep them healthy. Dexter cows are also a lot lighter compared to other cow breeds. They are comparatively small and pack and lessen damage to the soil and the pasture that they walk on. These small cows can produce 3 gallons of milk in a day which is perfect for supplying milk for a family. Dexters are also friendly and cute little creatures that the whole family will enjoy looking after. Now, if you are looking for a great dual purpose cow for both milk and meat, the Dexter is our pick of the bunch. Dexter cows were used as dual purpose cows for years in England as they produce a good amount of good quality milk. Even though they are smaller in size, they do offer a large amount of meat. If you have a bit more space on your homestead, then the Halstein Cow breed is also a great dual purpose cow used for both milk and meat for many years. If your purpose is as much milk production as possible, you can't go past the Halstein. To prove my case, I introduce you to Dezzy, one of the most legendary Halstein cows around. I learned about Dezzy when reading an article about a Halstein cow that produced a whopping 24 gallons of milk per day. Now, Dezzy may be a rare case, but it does serve as an example of what Halstein cows can become if you look after them well. The cows in this video are some of the best dairy cow breeds for homesteaders as they are generally easy to handle and manage. They produce a good amount of milk, too. Some of them are heavier breeds and will require more feed and grazing space, but most of them are small enough to have on a nice sized piece of land without any issues. Good luck choosing the best dairy cow for your homestead. If you have any cow or dairy milk questions or experiences raising cows that you can share, please comment below. Thanks so much for watching. We'll see you in our next video or on our blog.