Meyer Farm Equipment For Dairy & Livestock Producers
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=asKhD_fQzSs
Entertainment
 When you say Meyer Farm Equipment, that means quality, and it has for over 70 years. Manufactured right in Dorchester, Wisconsin. Meyer's a family owned business. We've been, we're third generation, been in business for over 75 years. Meyer's a small bit, small company. We're able to adapt to all the markets. We've kind of carved out a niche with dairy and livestock producers. Allows us to react quickly to customers' demands. The CropMax spreader is a very versatile unit. First off, it comes available with two different spreading attachments. It comes with a silage attachment option with silage extensions, and also even a green kit package if you want to use it as a green cart. In addition, this unit would have hydraulic triple apron chains. It has a hydraulic gear drive system, variable speed, in-cab control. It has a poly floor, 10-gauge steel side panels for extreme durability. In addition, a suspended axle cart with adjustable axles on some models and lots of flotation. Spread rate is very critical. People are very concerned with applying this product in an accurate fashion possible. We offer these couple different attachments so we can cater to that particular customer's needs. We can run a vertical beater attachment if we're going to be hauling a bedding pack or feedlot manure, frozen manure. We can run our S100 combination attachment if we want to run lower rates, maybe litter, lime, compost. In those applications, we can use a guillotine-type door to control our rate in addition to our variable speed apron. Another feature that's quite popular with customers real concerned with spread rate is some of our scale packages. We offer a basic scale. In addition, we offer an NT460 Digistar system which allows you to set your spread rate for your desired tons per acre and map. We also offer an NT8000i scale system which actually gives you complete variable rate spreading in addition to the mapping feature. The 9524 CropMax spreader is available with the high flotation HFX series trailer. That will accommodate up to an 840 26.5 tire. More commonly would be the 710 50 26.5 radial. Gobs of flotation. We offer a very similar chassis under our 9130 silage box. The Boss RT runs the same tire. It's called an HFX 2800. The vertical mixers have been growing in leaps and bounds for us. Here within the last year we introduced two new single screw versions of the Meyer Formula Mixer. It's a premium version of a single screw mixer in a 425 model and also a 510 model. Those will reach up to 570 cubic foot in capacity. They're available in both a front discharge or a side discharge. They offer the same conveyor options as our twin screw mixers. That would include our very popular belt conveyor systems, flat belt conveyors, inclined belt conveyors, in addition to traditional chain conveyor offerings. Another couple features that are real new on our mixer line would be the newly designed baffle system on the twin screw mixers. It's a step baffle design, very shallow to the tank offering fast transfer of feed front to back, back to front and quick processing which is real critical. Meyer takes a lot of pride. We have an advanced engineering staff that takes a lot of pride in putting these things together right. I think customers are going to find features that they like the looks of and that perform well. Thanks for being a part of the Machinery Pete Spotlight Video.