How to Grow Maize for High Yields |Expert Free Guide  on Maize Farming in Kenya
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=asscF9W9tqQ
Howto & Style
 By the way, maize farmers, have you ever asked yourself this question? How many number of bugs do you produce in your small piece of land? Do you produce such number of bugs because you assume you know how to farm maize? Or it's because of ignorance to learn new knowledge on how you can grow much better? Well, I don't want you to answer me that, but today we are focusing on the basic on how you can manage to grow maize and get hired from planting to harvesting, including the best soil for maize farming. And we are going to jump right away on the best soil for maize farming. Maize thrives in fertile loam or sandy loam soils. Supplementing these soils with cow or sheep manure can enhance growth and when it rains, this mixture retains moisture, further promoting growth. Conversely, clay soil can has poor drainage and can lead to flooding which starts growth and results in more weeds. After getting light on the best soil for maize farming, now let's focus on which are these best varieties of maize that you can plant in Kenya and get good weeds. Now the suitability of maize varieties varies by regions. In the North Rift region where there is only one maize season, five-month maize varieties are the best. These varieties have high yields, producing over 50 bags of 90 kg per acre. Some of the recommended varieties include Pioneer that 253, Pioneer that G19, H614, H628, H629. It is crucial to plant these varieties during the long-range seasons for the best results. In regions with two maize seasons, farmers should opt for three-month maturity maize varieties. These fast-maturing varieties such as Haraka 101, Haraka 31, SC Duma 43, SC Sungula 31, DKC 31, DK 833 and Savo Wii 4141 typically yield an average of 25 to 35 90 kg bags per acre and matures within 75 to 90 days. After getting it right on the best maize varieties, then how well do you plant these seeds? Before planting, ensure the land is clear of weeds. Farmers can either weed manually or you can use non-selective herbicides such as kausha or round-up. A recommended planting spacing of 60 cm by 30 cm compared with the traditional 90 cm by 25 cm increases crop population per acre, requiring a seed rate of 11 to 12 kg per acre and of course the yield. If you've seen a maize planter, calibrate it first for precise spacing. After planting, this crop needs to be fed with the best fertilizers. And then, that's why we give you the best maize fertilizers. The yields by a car are influenced not only by the maize variety but also by proper fertilization. High crop populations require adequate cbm. To bless with DAP 1846.0 on the 10th day after sowing, to promote faster growth. At this stage, the maize plants have developed strong roots that can absorb nitrogen and phosphorus effectively. Using fertilizers during planting is not effective as seeds do not utilize them, leading to reaching. DAP is preferred of NPK 2323.0 due to its high phosphorus content which supports rapid root growth. NPK 2323.0 should be top-traced on the per capita day after sowing. Our CAN fertilizer should be applied 55 days after sowing to enhance seed formation and weed gain. After planting, you need to control the pest. The fall amurum is a significant pest in maize farming responsible for more than 50% of crop loss. To control fall, apply a maroon that you see or escort ideally 21 to 14 days later, that is after sowing. This should be combined with a sticker such as Integra or Aquavit and a booster for your feed. This application is most effective when done in the late evening when the fall amurum is most effective. When you've done this, you need now to control weeds. Keep the farm free of weeds at all times. This is essential. Farmers can choose between manual weeding or using selective herbicides such as Tinga Tinga, Gavana, Maguguma, Diamine, 2,4-D, Sementra, Cell. All these, they simplify the work of controlling weeds. Also implementing zero-tillage can help conserve moisture, thereby promoting faster growth. Now with all this, you have a complete kind that you can follow step by step and manage to yield more from your small piece of land. Let me know on the comment section if you have any question or query about maize farming and also maize management and paste a control.