Crop rotation at sustainable farm in the Valley
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AtOuQUPXBO0
News & Politics
 Well, we are out here by a pile of dirt, but I bet you're wondering what it is. Well, I'm sure you've heard of composting, and this is composting on steroids. I'm here at Duncan Family Farms, and this is Pete, who's going to tell us a little bit about Duncan Family Farms. And you guys are pretty much a certified organic farm, and one of the things is about sustainability, right? Correct, correct. We do a lot of various things that help us with the organic certification. One being is we actually create our own compost. We divert a lot of the horse waste that would go to a landfill, for example, or grass clippings. Bring it in here, we accept it here, and what we do is we actually compost it, usually for about a year, and then we'll apply it on our soils. That actually helps with water conservation in itself already, and it adds a little bit of organic matter to the soil also. Okay, which is pretty much, I have to say, I compost for our garden, our family garden, and I have to say, once the soil is rich in nutrients, you're pretty much guaranteed that your plants are going to grow. It's definitely going to help, correct, yeah. And that helps you from having to add any synthetic fertilizers, things like that, that we want to stay away from. Okay, so some pure composting. But besides that, another thing that you guys do sustainable is crop rotating. Correct. What we do is we do a rotation of different varieties into the field, and the reason is if you plant variety after variety after variety, what you start doing is start building up a lot of the pests or diseases into that soil. So what we do is we rotate the crops. We may go maybe with a spring mix lettuce, behind it maybe a spinach or an arugula, mustard. Okay. So in turn, you're using less chemicals and probably less water too, right? That is correct. Okay, I love it. So this is Duncan Family Farms, which is pretty much almost certified organic, and I have to say it's a win-win for the environment because they produce a lot of produce.