MeitY StartupHub: Fostering Innovation and Growth for Next-Gen Startups
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=atxm_vMVPzA
Education
 Manage CIA is a pioneering Agri business incubator established under the National Institute of Agriculture Extension Management Manage Hyderabad. As a center of excellence, we are committed to empowering Agri startup through mentorship, funding, capacity building, and national level networking platform. Today we are gathered for an important conversation around Mighty Startup Hub fostering innovation and growth for next-gen startups. The Mighty Startup Hub, an initiative by India's Ministry of Electronics and Information Technologies, serves as a unified digital platform that supports next-gen startups. It connects entrepreneurs with essential resources like mentorship, funding, government programs, and strong network of incubators. By bringing together various center and state level schemes, including startup India aim and AI-driven initiatives. It simplifies access to grants, equity, and regulatory support, allowing innovators to focus on building impactful solutions. To guide us through this session, we are joined by distinguished speakers. So without further delay, let's now welcome to our speaker. To introduce our speaker, I would like to invite Ms. Jena. Jena. Thank you, Sonam. Good morning, all. It's my great pleasure to introduce today's distinguished speaker, Mr. Utkarsh Mathur, a seasoned leader in the field of innovation, management, public policy, and startup ecosystem development. Mr. Mathur currently serves as senior manager at Maiti Stratum, Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology Government of India, where he spearheads strategic programs and partnerships aimed at nurturing the technology and innovation ecosystem. Her work focuses on expanding stakeholder collaboration, developing impactful programs, and driving policy development that embowers startups and MSMEs. With over 15 years of developed experience, Mr. Mathur has held senior roles across key institutions such as Bayrat, DRII, and Sinjit International Limited, contributing in national innovation clusters, incubation programs, and international partnerships. His extensive background also includes critical roles in healthcare consulting, business research, and biotechnology. Please join me in welcoming Mr. Utkarsh Mathur. The session is over to you, sir. Thanks, Jena, and thanks, Manage team, for inviting me on this webinar. I am really thrilled to talk about what are the various government initiatives taken by startup ecosystem, especially in the Maiti. I will just share my slide and just let me know if it's visible. It's visible, sir? It's visible? Yeah, it's visible, sir. Thank you. Right. So, thank you, everyone. So, Maiti Startup Hub is one of the divisions of Ministry of Electronics and IT, and the objective is to promote the startup ecosystem, especially startup right from ideation to commercialization. This is an initiative to promote the strength and the tech ecosystem in the country. And this is done through various programs and schemes. So, we, as a government-enabled agency, we support startup in form of grants and investment. I will talk about the later details about what kind of schemes are available with us in form of grants and investment. We also have incubation centers and accelerator working with us, which are our implementing partner or extended partner through which the schemes are being implemented. We are involved in various capacity building programs to support the startup, nurture the startup, help them in moving, nudging to the next level, various mentorship and workshop series to, for the new incubator, for the new startup ecosystem and helping in the business growth and opportunity. As an ecosystem enabler, we provide various national and international platform to help us to manage the startup to represent our startup at the various forums. And we also do recently started a global startup bridge program where we take our startup to the international community and the startup who are at the level of the, you know, ready to enter into the master, we have been facilitating that. So, we have to take our startup. With the objective of our, our, our, our startup is to, you know, where the tech meet the vision. Basically, the MSH vision is, you know, the startup India is a custodian for the, all the startups in the country. Whereas we see MSH vision as a custodian of the deep tech startups and tech startups in the country. Our vision is basically based on three pillars. One is the custodian of deep tech startups. We want to nurture the deep tech startup in our country. Secondly, supporting the startup in a tire to entire city. I think that is very important. Various ministries have various programs to support the startups. But over a period of last 10 years, we have seen most of the startups are confined to tire one city. So, we have seen most of the startup startup in the tire two, the kind of innovation, the kind of innovation, what we are getting with that objective in mind of our ministry have proposed a dedicated program where we support the startup, especially in the tire two and tire three cities. So, the program is the program where we support the program where we support the program where we support the tech. So, inclusive tech is the third pillar which we support the MSH vision where to support and under the inclusive side, we support assistive tech, women tech, and as well as the vernacular tech. One natural tech means understanding technology in the local language. So, these are the basic MSH vision and on which we have pivoting and all these startups have been, these are three pillars which we see as an invasion. So, we have pivoting and all these are the basic S&P. So, we have been providing the support in the ecosystem in the form of a scheme. We do various network connects with the industry, with the incubator, with the investors and help the startups to connect, understand what is the requirement and then push them with the right kind of a partner. We also support in various showcasing our technologies to the international partners with the network demo day. And we also run various hackathon and challenge. So, depending upon the requirements of various corporate partner, we run various innovation challenges, understanding the business challenges, and connecting the startups if they have a solution to the right kind of corporates and mentors. So, apart from that, we help in policy initiatives, stakeholders, and international opportunities. So, these are the primary three schemes which MIT startup has been supporting and representing from the Ministry of Electron anything related to IT, SaaS, emerging technology is being supported as well. So, the area of support for our startup is very broad, right? Whether it is Agritech, Medtech, or IT, SaaS, semiconductor, all these kinds of applications is being supported by us. We have supported by us. We have supported more than 5,000 startup. We have supported more than 5,000 startup. We have a pool of more than 450 vendors. If you see, this is a location of our incubator across the country. We have spread across the country more than 100 incubators, 52 accelerator, and 440 center of excellence. So, these are the primary scheme, Tide program, Genesis program, and Sumrits program. Tide is a scheme is basically confined to support the startup right from ideation to development of a POC. Sumrits program is a program which basically supports the late stage of startup who have been able to raise the private funding. And Genesis is the latest scheme which we have initiated which was launched by Honorable PM. And the objective of this particular program is to support in the Tide to entire C-Cities. So, under the Tide scheme, we support as I mentioned, support the deep tech startup, which may be related to AI, IoT, cybersecurity, blockchain, to structure incubation program. Usually, the early support start is start from 4,000,000 as a grand stage to the early stage startup. We also have a scale-up grant up to 40,000,000, which helps the startups to get market ready. This particular program is being implemented through our 151 incubator, which is spread across the country. And the focus is on supporting the emerging technologies addressing national and global challenges. So, Sabrit is, as I mentioned, is a particular program and scheme which is focused for the startup who has raised the funding from the external stakeholders. So, this particular program is being implemented through our accelerator. So, we have identified 21 accelerator across the country. And these accelerator support this startup. In this particular program, we give a matching funding. For example, if any startup has raised a private funding from the external stakeholders, based on the same valuation, we support them up to 40,000,000. So, all this process, first of all, all the internal scrutiny and the first level of screening is done by the accelerator. And then, once they have shown that, yes, they have been able to raise the private funding and the private funding has sent the amount to their account, then only we release on the basis of up to 40,000, depending upon what kind of startup it is, whether what is the scale-up idea, and how does it, you know, impact the society. So, that is a summary scheme. And Genesis scheme is a latest scheme, which is specially focused on a tier 2 and tier 3 cities. So, there, we have four components. So, any startup at any stage can be, take the utilization, can be applied to this particular program. Under the Genesis program, we have identified 65 incubators, which are specifically in a tier 2 and tier 3 cities only. So, they are being our incubation and implementation partner. So, the first pillar for the Genesis scheme at EIR, where we gave a grant fund in form of 10,000,000 to the early stage startup. Pilot support is up to 40,000,000 with the work orders. Then, the third pillar is basically for investment, and which is where the product is ready, up to 50,000,000, we are being supporting. And the last pillar is the deep tech support, where we give up to 1 crore to the deep tech startups. Sorry, I think. Let me try. I think there is some problem in my question. Yes, I will try once. Okay, okay. Yeah, so, so, as I am. I mentioned the TIDE particular program. TIDE scheme is basically to support the startup at the initial level, from development to ID to POC, and anything related to IoT, AI, blockchain, robotics, are being supported. 51 incubators are our implementation partners, which are spread across the country. So, under this particular program, you can see what kind of support is being provided. I think we provide support for developing an incubator for infrastructure, consumable, manpower, co-working space, and travels. Till date, this is our impact. We have more than 1500 incubators supported under this program. Through our incubation partner, we have generated, we have launched various hackathon and challenges. More than 900 product, MBP prototypes have been developed. More than 300 patents have been filed through the supported companies. And more than 9000 employment have been generated through this program. So, TIDE has been one of the flagship program of our MediStata world. So, this is the presence of our TIDE across the country. You can see the spread across the country. And I think we also try to support our incubators. For example, if an incubator is in, like suppose, Uttar Pradesh, and he want to utilize the services somewhere of some instrument which is in incubator in Karnatica. So, you know, so we have ensured through our portal, seamless integrity is there. So that a startup working in one area can utilize the services which is available in south or any part of the country. Summary that I mentioned, we have already supported two cohorts have been released. Two cohorts have been launched. First, in first, cohort 21, etc. were identified. And we just concluded the call of application form, etc. In which 24 new, etc. has been identified. And under the cohort one, we have supported more than 175 startups. 100 startups have been, out of which 100 startups have been already invested. So this is a particular program where you will find that we are, government is making an investment in, in startup, right? Usually, you will find the scheme from various ministry are in form of a grant, right? There is no investment. So, Summary is a dedicated program where government has come forward to make an investment. That means we support this kind of startup to make and make the conducive ecosystem so that the startups can grow. Out of this, under startup, more than 450 crore revenue has been generated. We also support the women tech startups. So, more than 25 women are the leaders who are, you know, supported under this startup. And more than 2500 employment has been generated through startups. We conduct through our accelerator program, more than 300 sessions have been conducted to create awareness about these various programs. So, if you talk about some rich funding startup, this is a section wide distribution. So, out of 100 startups, 12 are agri-tech startups, 13 focuses on circular economy and sustainability, 24 support in consumer tech, health tech startups. So, there are almost 30 plus startups, education startups, and SaaS based startup with 17. And this is a distribution of the city wise how we have supported the startups in the various tier two and tier three cities. Genesis is a recent program which I mentioned is the only scheme of any ministry which is supporting on tier two and tier three cities. This has major, only four components. One is the independence radius program, where we support up to, sorry, where we support the 10 lakhs. The second component is the pilot funding support, where we give sort of a work orders to the startup. If our startup is able to get a work order from any PSU or any, you know, any ecosystem enabler, we give a pilot funding up to 40 lakhs. Investment support up to 50 lakhs of investment is done. And deep tech support extends up to one crore. So, till date we have already, as I mentioned, there are 65 implementation agencies and incubator in the tier two and tier three cities. We have already launched a cohort for EIR only. For other three pilot, we are yet to open the national call. So, I would request all the incubators and the entrepreneurs to keep a watch on our social media channel. Under the EIR program, we anticipate to take around the thousand startups from Ideation to POC. So, we have only open first cohort of call in which 250 the application has been shortlisted. There are still three rounds to go. So, probably I would request the manager and team to just spread a robot across that the second round of cohort will be opening soon. And the pilot funding investment and deep tech pillar will be open gradually as we go ahead of the program. So, apart from the mighty startup hub, we also have a different program. So, we have a lot of various other initiatives of our ministry. For example, India AI mission, the objective is to support, you know, Indian own LLM language. Modulus over AI mission is being focused. The total budget, overall budget is of more than 10,000 crore. Out of which 2,000 crore is dedicated to the startups based in the AI. So, I think there is a huge opportunity for the startups in the AI through AI mission. We also have another division called Bhasini. Bhasini is a language translation mission by METI which aims to break a barrier between the various Indian languages using available technology. So, this particular division focuses on making the use of technology in the local language. And I think till date, they have been able to transcript in more than 22 languages. Then we have an India Semiconductor mission. The objective of this particular mission is to, you know, make a global hub of semiconductor in the country. So, a lot of investment is being done with the help of this setting up the, as we are aware, the investment required in for semiconductor is very huge. So, with that objective in mind, India Semiconductor mission has been launched. The overall budgetary outreach is 676,000 crores. And we also already have a chip to startup program which objective is to train the specialized professional. More than 85,000 specialized professional over the five years has been already been trained. So, these are some of the other and alternative missions which we are working on. So, we can also do this on the other hand. So, there are also a few different programs. So, we have a lot of different programs in the corporate sector. So, we have a lot of different programs, which are both of the partners. So, we can also do this in the corporate sector. So, we have a lot of different programs. So, apart from that, MSH also have a partnership at the corporate level, government level and international level. So, based on our requirement, we keep on having our different programs with the corporate, like we with the corporate like we already have a partner on port like google meta samsung hdfc we also work with the various different ministries like vsf ssb uh ministry of consumer food awareness national health missions ministry of social injustice and also internationally like for example under the g20 presidency we organized uh g20 digital alliance which was one of the biggest uh digital lines uh uh conducted in three day event in bangalore where more than uh 32 countries participated under the g20 division and the objective was to you know uh showcase india as a investment hub as to showcase our startup ecosystem how we have been supporting and what kind of new application has been evolving so these kind of initiatives we have been doing for example if i talk about some corporate program samsung we are already launched a sam solve to fall tomorrow i think this is the fifth version we have run and i would request uh this is this particular program is i think uh 30th june is the last uh date for application this is a initiative of samsung csr fund where they are supporting startups or the young entrepreneurs who have a innovative idea to support uh so i would request uh to go on to samsung website and register as soon as possible there are different domains and the last date is 38 june we also work closely with the google google in the past we have done the app skill academy where google have mentored the startups our startups to develop the app they have been accessing the google play store help in developing developing an app increasing their uh downloads increasing their uh rating and uh two of course in order to release uh and uh i think the investment arm of google has also investment in some of the startup uh we also are now uh closely working with the google uh for the ai am semiconductor various workshops so google across the country is conducting various tools you know just get in hang of what kind of new technologies ai iot cyber security challenges is being there so google is helping in that meta we have launched a launch of program for the introduction of xr and dr technologies uh meta a shortlisted few startup where they have given their access to their r d center base in us and startups who are working on xr technologies uh are being supported through the meta program and in the program of dell the uh dell is supporting in the edu tech sector so those startups who are working in the edu tech center uh dell pro we are closely working with the dell so as i mentioned we closely work with the government programs also like we work with ssb uh border security for ssb and ihmsl so these government agencies have their own business problems so we launch a hackathon challenge and a lot of startups uh has been inducted uh with the ssb and vsf team and they are working closing on the on the on the problem challenge so these kind of initiatives that we keep on taking to help the promote the startup connecting with the right kind of uh ecosystem partners and these are some of the initiative which we have taken the latest initiative which we have launched is the msh portal this was launched by our private secretary sir recently in uh uh uh satam hakum where it was the acquisition of power uh which will happen last uh three months before in mars and the objective is to bring all the stakeholder together get uh get right kind of information and the usb of this uh mighty metra is that it is one of the only ai and voice box chat box so if any kind of question is the startup have regarding the program regarding scheme when the uh or what at what state the scheme has opened so this is a one of portal which i would request uh all the startup to visit all kind of information basic information what are the guidelines uh who can apply what is the tenure of the program how the grant is with the that has been been supported through our ai voice box chat box right so this is an interesting uh portal which we have launched uh we also have a entity locker right so entity locker objective is to uh you get your documents online right so uh startup can register in the entity locker and he can they can become hassle-free from the physical documents so the space provided is generally 10 gb of cloud storage e-sign support is there uh adhaar verification is there and it's a fully integrated with the mss system and then with the real-time validation so i think this is one of the unique opportunity for startup to use the entity locker then uh we all we also keep on conducting various national platforms like startup mahakam which was organized in bharkanda firm and we organized the deep tech uh pavilion where more than 30 startups displayed their technology to the various corporate ministries and and that is a kind of platform where we support the startup given opportunity to talk about the program and connect the right kind of ministry then on so this is a prava program this was a incubator uh program where all incubators came together on the same platform and did a brainstorming that one phase how to support the next generation of startup uh various policy dialogue will happen uh yeah it's a mentor to mentor from the uh advanced incubators to the uh fresh inducted incubator so that is a program where we brought all the incubator at the same program we keep on participating in regional program also like you imagine in tamilnadu uh prava as i mentioned thai global summit in uh bangalore so we keep on participating in a very extension program and giving an opportunity of startup to showcase their technologies at a very national event we also participate in uh uh helping in uh launching the uh policy for the state government so uh on 24 january 2025 we launched a startup startup policy uh and uh methi has been driving that policy was and state concertation that's a has state presentation as i mentioned we have a a google for startup accelerator various uh partnerships with the uh tally also uh we have tried to you know uh uh bring cooperate as a major uh partnership i think because ultimately our startups look like kind of a solution right kind of uh you know uh so instead we have thought in a different way and uh understanding pivoting that corporate social responsibility could be corporate startup responsibility so if the startup solution need to be scaled i think corporate need it plays a very uh big role and startup corporate need to come hand in hand and help in expand you know um taking uh support to the startup so with that objective in mind we keep on talking to various corporate uh corporate faces a lot of business challenges challenges so we launches various uh business hackathon and challenge where startups can be on boarded these men and these corporate can uh help the startups uh if they they align with their vision and mission and also uh this is an opportunity for startup that they could be corporate could be customers so so so we have the uh also tie up with startup policy forum in making various policy uh programs we have a partnership with hero motor corp especially into the digital space and in the mobility sector area we have a partnership with matchworks who is providing you know matlab and simulation for ai modeling tools uh we also have given opportunity for startups those who are looking for international opportunity so we have tied with dubai commercial city so dubai this particular region is coming up with the exclusive incubation activity so this particular so various incubator we have tied with race incubator people who looking up as that as an area we can help and facilitate it in going on on board uh razor pay one of the financial uh financial uh partner big name in our country we are supporting financial start of significant tech startups they they have a rise program where they are mentoring the startup so that they can enter into the international arena also so these kind of various uh innovation challenges and partnerships we are helping recently we launched a global startup bridge program where we took a delegation of 10 deep tech startup to belgium belgium being a co-host and we introduced the deep tech startup to the european ecosystem uh the products which are ready for the uh national are they really ready for the international matter so these are some of the initiative which we keep on giving opportunity for startup and our objective is to nudge the startup right from my nation to commercialize your maybe entry uh so some of the mss startup spotlight i will just quickly mention some of the startup which have taken leap and faith bounces right from my nation for example pairing the vehicle technology this is the ai powered cervical scan cancer screening and this is a you know a non-invasive head care uh technique where you can uh only cervical scans can be screened within a span of few seconds expect is an ai powered digital twin energy especially for predictive maintenance and remote assisting monitoring uh with ananta smart global challenge has been supporting this particular startup ig drones uh if you mentioned uh in uh operations in the uh uh ig drones played an important role and uh their uh smart drones were used in the recent uh operation uh eurovac climate limited is a clean tech with a company and uh this basically helps in uh uh or uh reducing the minimizing carbon footprint of the in the boundary so they have a one solution which has been supported in the parkmate is another technology which we uh helps the future parking smarter simpler and seamless and uh they have got various contracts with their prestigious client like dlf cynics small fund republic uh randay financial services is basically for the ruler entrepreneurs in agritech for the loan then uh uh loan giving system is hazard made header suite through the app development uh nyan technologies is also on a sort of a free safe and feed management delivery system which has been supported and they have the current valuation more than 100 so these are some of the startups which we have been uh uh supporting and uh looking way forward i think our objective is to support the t-text uh startup uh i believe we have built the uh you know breadth of the startups in the country but now i think this is a time to go go uh deep dive into that so i think that with that objective in mind we are uh looking for support or deep tech startup we also look forward for fostering the global collaboration various new program initiative where our startups can be a solution builders for the global challenges i think that is a way forward and the in helping a policy of the advocacy so this that is all from my end i think i would be happy to ask any few questions as well thank you thank you sir for the presentation on mighty startup hub and it is uh its initiatives we truly appreciate learning about the impactful support msh provides through schemes like tight 2.2 summit and genesis and how these programs are empowering deep tech startup across india so now we will take the questions so participants if you have any questions please drop them in the chat box or also you can raise your hand and so we will unmute you and you can directly talk to our speaker so i will take the question one by one uh i will request my team to kindly unmute ashok ready so that he can ask question hello ashok sir can you hear us yeah i can hear you uh so very uh so very good afternoon and uh it's an excellent session uh i'd like to know how we can get in touch with your uh 50 plus odd incubators because i was seeing your website uh only two or three are listed there like iit kanpur and imb no so if you if you go if you go on our website through various programs uh there's a program and there you will find tight uh samrit and uh genesis and if you scroll down there is a list of all the incubators which we have supported okay uh because here uh incubators i see only one two three four of them no so wait i will help you out uh just give me a direct maybe uh i would request manage team if you can bring out the methi startup up team uh uh website okay i can explain explain you sir can i email you uh will that be a good option sir sure sure you can drop my email uh i think you can get your email from the team but uh you can write down bookers.msh at nic.n yeah fine i'll email it thank you so much yeah yeah yeah so uh next question is from mr jagdish uh okay sir do you want to show your website or shall we quit the screen sorry you want to show your website give a demo or shall we quit the screen okay uh maybe i want to show your website if you if you are on a website click on schemes and then you put in genesis if you click in genesis yeah so you will find the list of implementing agency in the green green so if you click it click that so you will find a list of 65 incubators which are in uh tie 2 and tie c cities so this will be helpful for the audience uh the question which was asked by mr asho so these are the list of incubators in the title entire city uh similarly for the tide program you will see uh at the bottom lists of tight uh msn incubation center shall we go back yeah you go back go on schemes and click to tie it one second one second meanwhile we can go for with the next question probably okay so this particular document is already available on a website anybody can see this uh document or the list of implementing agencies program wise yeah correct sorry is my screen visible yes yes yes so can you just guide us through the website you go to mighty uh i think on the left side uh i can see the mighty side of harbor you go to the main website yeah i can see the only document on your screen yeah i think we are having some network issues sir okay should i try among my meanwhile we can take questions yeah yeah yes so mr jagdish is asking that i would like to inform you that we are developing ai powered solution for agriculture how could we get support from you so uh as i mentioned uh whenever uh we work through the various incubator and accelerator i as i mentioned genesis is one of the program where uh we uh focus on tito traffic city so whenever we take out a call at a national level these 65 incubator will also take out a national call at their you know at their level so maybe you can before reaching out you first identify which type of incubator is near around your state and we all recently just now close the call for cohort one for the eir program i'm assuming you are still at uh at an early stage so uh uh once we uh take out a national call these 65 incubator will also take out a call you may approach them uh you may pitch your incubator uh your idea and if the incubator feel that yes this is a you know uh because the initial screening is done by the incubator level depending upon your uniqueness of an idea scalability and all those that that kind of activity right uh if they find useful then you can apply to this particular program okay okay sir so next question is from mr shubrat uh thank you sir for the insightful presentation i'm trying to understand two things uh i am more interested in gaining knowledge and support from my business idea rather than financial part would you suggest something relevant for me and second question is how should i know if my business idea is related to a particular area i think uh uh first we need to understand i think that from a point of point of view that every idea uh maybe you know find that it's very unique at the initial level but uh ultimately our objective is when we you know scale up when we uh talk to the right kind of partner right then we get a better knowledge that is this idea scalable is this unique will be will it be able to you know solve the uh the challenge which which is answerable to the mass right so i think those kind of solutions create more impact right so probably i think you first you need to connect with the right kind of mentors maybe incubator at this level can help you and guide you connect you with the subject matter expert talk to them discuss to them discuss with them right and probably they could be the right fit uh because uh you can talk to some r d person uh right and uh coming to our level coming to start startup level i think they are a multiple not only mighty i think they are a multiple program multiple scheme which are supporting the through various uh uh you know initiatives to support development development idea to poc right so there the incubator role pretty critical team like manage can help you uh into your business idea and probably if they find yes this is a stable idea definitely they can guide you to write kind of program through various ministries yeah thank you sir so next question is from mr gautam will mighty give grant to develop and design smart intelligent food cooking technologies to improve productivity and profits in commercial kitchen resulting in more efficient kitchen or do you require only poc developed technologies i think uh the advantage in mighty is anything related to i i i iot sas right semiconductor as i mentioned the platform platform uh the area is is broad enough right so anything related to it or any emerging technology we are ready to support uh we being a custodian of deep tech technologies we will happy to support such kind of technologies and yes as i mentioned uh the tide is a program where you um you can be supported at a poc level uh if you have already developed a poc and if in case you have developed a poc and you have already on boarded some private investor private investor and you will have you raise the private funding samrid is a program so also just for my viewers uh tide is a program for development ideated poc samrid is a program for a late stage of startup who has been able to raise uh funding from the external stakeholder right in that case we give a matching funding right so first of all you need to identify which stage you are you understand go through the various guidelines uh talk to the incubators who are funded i think uh then they will be able to give you a right direction understand what stage you are and what stage or which program or scheme you should be applied to not only my team maybe another through other ministries also uh next question is from sophia i'm from agriculture background where to connect for support i think manage is a is one of the first incubator you should talk talk about i think they have been supporting agri-tech startups uh and i'm sure they look out for right kind of agri solutions there are a lot of agri-based solutions satellite based solution uh agrees solutions are especially for the you know ruler area as you know the percentage of our country is more toward rural right so any type of agritics agri solution will be uh will be supported but i think your idea should be unique should be scalable and i think i'm i'm sure manage team of uh here can help you and guide you what kind of uh you know solution you should develop and they can also guide you to what kind of schemes you should support us what are the uh at my tbr anytime welcome you yeah also usha ma'am if you want to add something in this question yes like udkar has rightly pointed the uh to get incubated with manage primary criteria is that idea has to be innovative and very much unique and very much beneficial to the farming community so manage cia has a few distinguished programs uh we are implementing the rkware of that scheme so recently we have uh closed the applications for even cohort 13 under which if you are still in idea stage you can apply uh but currently the applications are closed and we will be launching the uh next cohort 14 applications uh maybe in another three four months so we request you to kindly follow us on social media on the platform so that you will get our timely updates uh meanwhile we are going to launch one uh very unique program called as pre-incubation mentoring program it will be launched in the next month so it is a 22 day online mentoring program if you want to uh get connected to the mentors and just uh redefine your idea or how you can go or maybe if you are looking for the way forward you can definitely connect with us for that program yeah thank you shannon so uh next question is from uh dr shawanti we are in uh agri innovation and incubated center based at dr rajendra prasad center at the culture university bihar can we apply under the genesis initiative for collaboration with mighty startup i think she is already incubated and she is asking can we apply under genesis innovation initiative for collaboration with mighty startup i think uh what uh the incubation mission is uh not uh genesis center but yes uh we are open like you can you just go through the list which ms usha took out uh 65 incubation center and you can reach out to any of the incubation center which is supported by us irrespective of any incubation center you are uh incubated you can go to these incubation center and uh and can discuss your program and uh if they find your program or your idea interesting you can apply to them yeah thank you sir and also someone is asking for a mentoring program how to register my i request my team kindly guided and uh we have submitted a few links you can follow us on social media pages uh their updates will be uh posted and we have given the speaker contacts if uh any of the participants still needed you can contact uh mr rutkar sir yeah so i will take up the last last question uh what are the biggest challenges startup face in scaling through government sorry i lost that question what are the biggest challenge startup face in scaling through government support and how does uh msh help addressing them i think uh see i think any startup to merge to the next level is you need to have a you know uh consistency and faith in your uh idea or your where you are working on like i say so the the support if you see that there's a lot of buzz that uh the our country is uh uh you know being supported with these so many charters but the hard reality fact is also uh if you see in terms of percentage the success is very low right so you need to keep on uh pursue with your uh idea or your solution get connected with the right kind of mentors and uh governments uh if you especially the government scheme i think incubators are there because uh as a government agency as a ministry we don't have a bandwidth to you know nurture each and every uh startup right that's why we implement our scheme through our extended partner which are incubator accelerator actually so in my terms i think the relationship between incubator and a startup is like a mother and baby right right so the startup it's a responsibility of a incubator to get the right kind of pentas connected with the right kind of uh investors help them in in registering their company providing legal guidance preparing them for the investor mentoring so that kind of role uh invest incubators plays a major role and uh at uh the ministry not only i would say mighty all other ministry maybe uh you know uh agriculture ministry or science and technology ministry all these national governments team are implemented through the incubator so the role of incubator is very important right uh we also do a time to time review to the incubator that whatever whenever these incubator come to our to uh us who are picking for the grant for uh right uh you know are they are being ultimately fulfilled or not are they uh submitting the right kind of documents or not how they are helping so that kind of scrutiny we do at uh incubator level but i think the role of incubator is also important especially with startup because incubator will give the confidence to that individual entrepreneur startup that yes your solution is unique your solutions uh scalable your solution is different uh but the right kind of guidance and mentoring and showing the path is important thank you so much sir so we are at the end of the session so so we will wrap up the session before wrapping up thanks to all the participants for joining us today a special thank you to our speaker for taking the time to share such a practical and inspiring knowledge with us and we also extend a heartfelt gratitude to dr uh our director dr sarman al-raj his vision leadership and constant encouragement have helped us to reach this this milestone of 247th webinar supporting hundreds of agri startups and entrepreneurs across the country and also my entire team for of manage cia for conducting this webinar seamlessly and also participants if you have further queries feel free to reach out our speaker his contact details are shared in the chat box and do follow us on manage cia social media pages to stay updated and uh and for opportunity success stories and upcoming events and thank you once again for being part with us today and stay inspired and keep you know meeting for technical thank you so much thank you my team for inviting me thank you very much thanks