Intergovernmental Technical Panel on Soils -- boosting sustainable soil management
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aunmD28Vlgw
Nonprofits & Activism
 Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Soil is the basis for the production of food as well as feed, fuel and fibre production. It also provides many critical ecological services. Music Music Music Music Soil is the reservoir for at least one quarter of all global biodiversity. And yet it is largely microbial and invisible to the human eye, so it generally goes unrecognised. Soil biodiversity deserves the same attention as above-ground biodiversity. This requires huge awareness raising of its critical functions. Music Music Soils play a key role in the supply of clean water and in providing resilience to intense rains, floods and drought. Music Music Music Music Primary nutrient cycling through soil processes is the basis for plant and animal life. Music Music The largest store of terrestrial carbon is in the soil. Its preservation may contribute to climate change mitigation. Music Music However, the area of productive soil is limited, and soil functions are under increasing pressure from various threats, notably the various forms of degradation that range from erosion and compaction, to nutrient mining and loss of organic matter, as well as salinization and contamination. Music The Global Soil Partnership, known as GSP, was established by FAO members and a range of soil partners in 2012. Music The intention was to create a unified voice, to advocate due attention to sustainable soil management and protection, and to avoid fragmentation of efforts and wastage of resources. Music Its Intergovernmental Technical Panel on Soils, or ITPS, first met in early 2013, and is of fundamental importance. Music It provides scientific advice to the GSP for successful implementation of its five pillars of action, through implementation of plans developed by the regional soil partnerships. Music I'm the chair of the Intergovernmental Technical Panel on Soils, that was recently established in the framework of the Global Soil Partnership. By governments, it's filling a gap essentially, which was felt existed for all the soil-related scientific issues, that have relevance for sustainable development on a global scale. Music The pillars have an objective of identifying how we can use and manage ourselves into the future, to ensure that we can meet the demands of people now, and our future generations. And the role of the ITPS members to ensure that these pillars reflect the best knowledge available now, highlight the really important pressing global issues, and identify the best ways we can actually tackle the issues associated with soil use and management. Music It's a great idea. Music ITPS collaborates with other scientific panels or international scientific bodies by providing expertise on land degradation and restoration, fertilizer use management, plant nutrient management, and also provides scientific input. If there are changes in the soil functions, how would they affect the other ecosystem issues, such as soil biodiversity, climate change interactions, decertification, human health, and so on. Music A brief that talks on the crucial role that soils have on sustainable development. The key issue is that soils now are at risk. Degradation of soils is an issue, and this threatens the capacity to meet the needs for future generations. The ITPS and the GSP are key government mechanisms to move on the agenda on soils. The World Soil Charter is a set of principles that, if widely adopted, would increase the amount of land under sustainable production, and the overall amount of productive land. Music These principles are linked to a series of actions. Actions by individuals, actions by national governments, and by international organizations, such as the FAO. The achievement of these actions would lead to widespread adoption of sustainable soil management. Among many other commitments related to soil awareness, ITPS has a great task to do, that is the status of the World Soil Resource Report. The main content of this report is going to be the general status of the soil resource in the world. Second, you are going to see all the main threats to soil function and its impacts on its consequences. The soil needs to be recognized and valued, not only for their productive capacities, but also for their contribution to the maintenance of key ecosystem services. The current rate of soil depletion will certainly compromise the capacity to meet the needs of future generations, unless human society can adopt a new approach to the management of this vital resource. The current rate of soil development is the first-to-the-sustainable management. Soil and its sustainable management are key determinants for addressing global issues, and should thus be considered pivotal in any post-2015 framework. FAO came up with this idea of global soil partnership. Because it's going to bring together all partners working in the area of soil management, so that the efforts are united. And there's going to be a lot of synergism. People bring whatever they've been doing in terms of kits, tools, you know, on the table. And partners who can choose from the basket of options and see what can be upscaled into their own countries. Because right now there are different partners working, you know, the information is so diffuse. You are told to check this website, check the website. If all these partners come together under this partnership, I think it's going to accelerate the rate of addressing the problem of soil degradation in Africa and, you know, the rest of the world. The Intergovernmental Technical Panel on Soils, ITPS, is ready to provide sound science in the process of promoting sustainable soil management. And in order to guarantee food security, environmental services, climate change response, and human well-being.