Grass Roots in the Soil part 1
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=awE8mdc13ls
Education
 The End The End The End The End The End The End The Little Creek ran bank full, but clear, not muddy as our streams now always are after a rain. One of the losses of Iowa through civilization has been the disappearance of our lovely little brooks. Then every few miles there ran a rivulet as clear as crystal, its bottom checkered at the ripples into a pattern like plaid delane by the shining of the clean, red, white and yellow granite pebbles through the crossed ripples from the banks. Now these watercourses are robbed of their flow by the absorption of the rich plowed fields. All are silted up and in the summer are dry. The water are dry. The End The End The End This is Virgin Prairie. Most of us have read about it or remember hearing grandfather tell about it. The prairie was more than something from a book. It was a broad, live expanse of grassland with big bluestem, side oats, Indian grass and a large variety of other native grasses and legumes. These were lusty grasses growing on a soil which they themselves helped to build. Each year the dying plants added more fertility to the soil and the living grasses bound together and preserved with their dense mat of roots the fertility of the ages. About four out of five acres in Iowa were covered by the prairie. The rest was covered with timber. The timber too, built and protected the soil. Its debris and litter formed a protective covering. But the dense mat of near surface roots was not so evident and the soil had a different structure and color. The prairie on the other hand was characterized by this tough, fibrous mass of roots. For the tall grasses had extensive root systems, many five feet in depth. Each year a tangle of tiny rootlets spread through the soil. As the older roots died and decomposed, new roots grew. Thus the organic matter was built up into a sponge-like mass which could absorb water easily. This was the blanket of sod, which our grandfathers called the prairie. The fibrous mat of roots was truly the hair in the plaster that gave the soil life and fertility. The roots clung tightly to each particle of soil and erosion losses were small. There were grass roots in the soil. The transformation of prairie to cultivated land took place in the very short period of 50 years. By 1900 about as much land was under the plow as there is today. And we added to the prairie soils under cultivation some of the soil which our native timber had protected. This soil too was productive, although it had less organic matter. In addition, we made some of our prairie soil more usable by improving the drainage. More than two million acres in Iowa alone needed tile drainage before they could be used for cultivated crops. This figure does not include many additional acres whose productivity has been increased by drainage. All this we did to make our soils productive. For the root-protected soils of the prairie were destined to be the food basket of the world, a land of cultivation. The deep, rich soil gave us crops, good crops, a variety of crops. And those who plowed the soil turned back part of what they earned to build a better farmland. They took the crops grown in the fertile soil and reinvested them in barns and granaries. They reinvested part of the fertility of the soil in homes, farm homes. They built a farmland out of a prairie. Some farmers fed the products of their soil to dairy cows. They grazed those cows on newer grasses, but still on prairie soil. And part of what they earned, some of the profits went to build a market for their cream. That creamery too was a product of the land. The market soon became the marketplace and then a village or a town. And those from town who did not buy the products of the soil earned profits on the merchandise they sold to those who plowed the soil. Or townsmen served both town and country people in their schools and churches. The town owed its existence to the farm. It was another product of the soil. The grain crops were among the first to grow in the soil of the grass roots prairies. And of those grains, oats was favored by the farmer. Here was a grain that fitted well into the rotation. One that was valuable as a nurse crop and a major source of food for poultry and livestock. Oats became one of the chief crops of the grassland. As a result of this high oats yield, the mills grew larger and larger. Big industry could thrive on profits earned by processing. Here was another reinvestment of the land. And these factories, and factories to manufacture farm equipment, and warehouses and retail stores, all these made up the city. All grew to serve the needs of those who plowed the prairie soil. Millions of cattle and calves grew and fattened on the products of the land. For there were bumper crops for fattening, and there was deeper grass for grazing. The farmer was proud of his beef. No matter what breed he chose, he still was proud of the gains they made. Part of the money which his cattle brought, he used to pay his taxes. The taxes helped to build the roads. And bridges, which were needed to make this farmland out of prairie. And there was corn. Year after year we grew corn. In depression times, because farmers must have cash. In war times, because food was needed. In flush times, because the price was good. Corn was the crop that made the farmland famous. The second most important food plant in the world. Columbus looked for precious spices when he made his westward trip. But the yearly value of all the spices in the world does not equal that of corn. We cropped the land, we reinvested too, and most of this was good. What Do you see that? The basket is algunas exceptions in the land, it is looked more 밀