BigDog® Mower Co. Dealer Spotlight | A to Z Equipment Rental & Sales in West Valley (Full Version)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AWwpvJ6r6AY
People & Blogs
 We have a wide variety of equipment for general construction type rentals as well as landscape and turf equipment type rentals. I'm Doug Dickerson with A to Z Equipment Rentals and Sales here in Phoenix, Arizona area. We have four locations in what's called the Valley of the Sun. The business was founded by my father-in-law in 1960 here in Phoenix. That's where the original store was. It was actually their house was in the back of the building and they built a small showroom on the front and that's where the business started. I'm Fred Matricardi and I'm the founder and owner of A to Z Equipment Rentals. The wife and I were in, well we were in Spain to start with and we came to the States and so we headed west and we got as far as Phoenix. We were gonna go to the coast, got as far as Phoenix and we settled here. I started buying equipment and renting it and that was how we started. Didn't know a thing about business, didn't know a thing about small equipment. If you break our business down, we're basically broken down into rental and retail sales both for the commercial customers as well as homeowners. We've been a big dog dealer since 2013 so in the big dog product is very good at mulching because we mow our grass here pretty short and very highly manicured properties so it has to do a really good job and it does. So from those standpoints productivity, simplicity and quality of cut especially mulch quality, it's been a great line for us. Also in 2010 we purchased property on the west side of town. It's a six acre property which was our first foray into the West Valley. My name is Joe Crossy, I'm the store manager at the Avondale branch and I've been here since 1995 with A to Z Equipment. I'm in charge of pretty much everything that happens here at this location, making sure that the customers are taken care of. Here at A to Z Equipment we put the the customer experience above everything else. It's our main priority. If a customer calls me and he's looking for a big dog, you know first thing I try to tell him is what's he using, ask questions, what's he gonna be doing. Start off with that and actually offering him a demo that way he can jump on the mower and see how it runs and he can know himself and what he's getting into. Here at A to Z Equipment we pride ourselves in renting just about anything from a folding chair to a backhoe. We can handle both your party needs and your construction needs as well as around the home tasks. You know I'm a firm believer treat people the way you want to be treated. So that's how I go about with my guys and myself. Wherever I go if they treat me good you know I'm gonna do business again. So I try to bring the same idea here. So I treat people good and they'll come back. I do business with A to Z for a long time because I have a pretty good relationship with the guys. Those guys help me with what I need for the company. If I'm looking for an equipment and he doesn't have it in the store he'll go to Gilbert, he'll go to Indian School and grab it for me. Even a couple times he's even delivered it to our job site. Whether it will be a rental or whether it will be a purchase. That to me it's huge. They're real reliable, friendly, knowledgeable. They know their stuff. That's all you're going to get at A to Z. And so we're excited about the lines that we carry because if they're going to be rental tough they're certainly going to be tough. Whether it's commercial or homeowner people are going to get their jobs done. If you have a big dog mower and you're looking to take care of it we have everything you need from filters to belts to blades. Everything to keep you going and to make your mower run well and keep your business profitable. We can keep it cutting well and purring like a kitten so you can keep on mowing and making money. When you go to some of the big box stores that happen to rent or some of the big conglomerates they're just taking orders. We don't take orders at A to Z Equipment. We make relationships. We make people want to come back and want to enjoy their time here and we make sure they get their job done.