Routine Management Practices in Farm Animals | Culling | Agricultural Science | SS3
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aYtFJn0L6io
Education
 Toodoo bought a large basket of apples. He recently decided to start taking his health seriously and planned that he would eat at least one apple every day. Toodoo found it hard to keep to his word though as he soon forgot all about them. One day he got back to his basket and discovered that one of the apples was already bad. Toodoo was about to pick this apple and throw it away when he got a call that demanded his immediate attention. So he forgot about the rotting apple. The next time Toodoo would be visiting the basket of apples, they were all bad. That single apple had affected the rest. Toodoo should simply have removed the rotting apple when he saw it. Removing the rotting apple could be synonymous with culling. Culling is the routine management practice we will be discussing today and it simply refers to the removal of unbiased apple. undesirable or unproductive animals from the farm. Unlike Toodoo and his apples, culling isn't done only to remove sick animals from a flock. It can also be done for animals who have a low rate of production or who exhibit cannibalism that is eating other animals. Culling is also done for overweight animals or animals who have renounced deformation on parts of their body. These animals are more expensive to maintain on the farm and as such must be removed from the flock. Advantages of culling are that it reduces the cost of maintenance of the animals, ensures greater production and it creates space and comfort for other animals. Remember how Toodoo's bad apples spoil the other apples. That's the same way sick animals may infect other animals. Culling also helps to control diseases from spreading to other animals. Culling also controls bad habits and vices from spreading to other animals. We hope you have enjoyed the lesson. In our next one, we'll be talking about identification of farm animals as a routine management practice. informatics of oversight. uwu The expert IN EN MA F PROF F in