Unknown Title
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B-SPAcVJAPE
Unknown Category
 FAO's Farmer Field Schools have improved the skills of over 20 million farmers, pastoralists and fisher folk in over 90 countries. By putting the farmers at the heart of the learning and innovation process, Farmer Field Schools empower people, households and communities. Producers meet regularly in their fields, discuss problems, innovations and management techniques, set up experiments, make weekly observations and take joint decisions. They build a deeper understanding of the local agroecosystem. Over the course of 30 years, Farmer Field Schools have grown to cover a wide range of topics, including agroecological farming. Agroecology is a holistic approach that applies ecological and social principles to the design and management of sustainable agriculture and food systems.ים Still będą uptrend' When I got a year in my parliament, I finally got any savings. I loved the Hindu guruButter Dog로nформs. Bi عليهOU Acho Granwayo New Delhi So I came to the интерne – karcha ganreichITY Now Bobboj diskubino know that there is a new material created. HOSINGAN AGGIES plans second-face on social and coinslit now I'll tell here I am to describe it as well My life is student of the arch background It's difficult from us to learn and field I also niño,ête and talk with me themediation in the truth Zhendaya, members of me We have to make our own food. We have to make our own food. We have to make our own food. We have to share our own food. Farmer field schools, introduced by FAO in India, have been adapted to focus on regenerating soil health, using intensive polycropping and agroforestry locally made by a stimulants derived from animals and botanical pesticides. Every week, groups of 20 to 25 producers from the same village meet on their farmer field school site to do an agro-ecosystem analysis and monitor their experiments. Two subgroups of farmers monitor the condition of two priority crops, while another subgroup can make visual assessments of soil health. Another group can check all the plants and trees present in a few square metres and discuss the positive synergies between the species which are growing next to or under each other. They will observe which trees will provide support for crops by giving shade, windbreaks, organic matter for soil cover or compost and fruit. As farmer field school members increase their plant diversity throughout the year, nutrition and incomes also improve, and farms become more resilient to extreme climate events and outbreaks of pests such as the fall army worm. These regenerative agricultural approaches put into practice the concept of one health, for ecosystems, animals and people. Agroecological principles are very important because if we maintain the diversity of crops on a piece of land, the diversity of microbes and beneficial insects also increases. Hence, no need of putting fertilizers and manures and other pesticides and chemicals and all from outside. So we can recycle the nutrients that is from the field to animals or livestock and from the livestock we can keep directly to this field. So we are here to explain about agroecological principles, their diversity, their recycling procedure and the economic principles like year-round income. The FFS people are like a group of people, no caste, no religious basis and they're happy now. The discovery learning process in farmer field schools is ideal to support farmers' learning and innovation on agroecology and offer a practical farmer-driven approach to discover and regenerate the complex web of life sustaining our agroecosystems. information our progress on a behalf of the project theenden tri Mister Thousand formul 해줍니다. You're responsible for them without wanting to participate so that you apply alongside sticks, we've already connected the Estoy homemade mountains to prepare,