Proposed SNAP reductions could threaten rural grocery stores agriculture in West Virginia
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B1B63oxiymE
News & Politics
 Well, local grocery stores could see negative impacts if the House of Representatives passed a 2025 reconciliation bill, also known as the One Big Beautiful Bill, which will have substantial cuts to SNAP. Our Shelby Burrow joins us live in the studio with a look at what this could mean for local grocers statewide. Shelby? Well, in 2023, 2,170 retailers redeemed SNAP benefits, which totals more than $730 million in West Virginia, according to the United States Department of Agriculture. We don't want to go backwards without SNAP benefits. Organizations statewide are sharing their opposition to federal cuts, which would cut SNAP benefits by more than $290 million, leaving the state responsible for funding $85 million to the program by 2028, which serves $278,000 statewide. SNAP is a big part of the safety net for folks who are food insecure. For every $1 of food, you know, that we can provide, which we say provides a meal, you know, SNAP dollars provide like 12 meals. If these cuts happen, they could bring with them a hit to locally owned grocery stores. And these smaller scale stores are what many West Virginians rely on, especially those who live in rural areas. Grocers, retailers, you know, they rely on those SNAP benefits in rural and remote communities. And the people that receive the benefits aren't the only people going to those stores. So if you lose stores in communities, you know, you're really creating barriers to healthy eating. CEO of Facing Hunger Food Bank, Cynthia Kirkhart, says this could potentially put a strain on farmers who sell to these stores as well. I mean, there are a lot of farmers that grow and then sell to like the grants stores or food line or whatever might be in their community. Not only are the people that process the meat being affected, the people that they bought the meat from, right, because they're going to buy fewer cows or fewer pigs. And then, I mean, it's just such a trickle down of impact. She says this could also result in staff being laid off, causing more negative impacts to local economies. Those local grocery stores, even the farmers markets that accept SNAP benefits. All of those retailers contribute to state and local tax revenue, right, that also support essential services like schools and roads and, you know, all those things. So you're talking about the food chain, you know, really being affected because every $1 SNAP spending generates up to almost $2 in economic activity. With continued calls for a healthier country, some say having empty shelves will not help that mission. We get really comfortable with our food system and, you know, having grocery stores that are fully stocked. And I think for us, you know, we saw in COVID that maybe our food system isn't that secure. And we really need to focus on how do we build up and build capacity in our local farmers and our local food system. Congressional leaders are hopeful to pass the budget by July 4th. And if passed, it will be the largest cut to the program in SNAP's history. Live in the studio, Shelby Burrow, Eyewitness News.