Unknown Title
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b2okeTG_E0g
Unknown Category
 Presence of American Library earthworm Friends with American Library Funding Management Perm Selecting Take As-ISA Video Watch Study We are at the Center of Clowns. We are located in Witsapia about five hours from here, an hour and a half south of Chicago. We've lived there for about almost five years now. So that's where we're at. And as we've said, our project is improving our knowledge for our medical seabird production. You can see some pictures of our family. We do have two young children, five and three, that help us out and also have some challenges. And you can just see some pictures of our farmers here as well. We grow about a quarter acre of garlic seed right now and we're looking to double, triple that. I work full time off the farm and really kind of runs the farm basically. And so we just want to share a little bit of our experience and then talk really about the specifics of our production system. Yeah, no, that's not good. So I grew up working at P.M.A. three houses. I started at age 12 working there through college. So that was the beginning of my farming experience. That was all conventional, but everything from your transplanting to retail and that business. I grew up in Maine and ended up in the Midwest. And so I grew up a city kid actually. And now went on to manage a couple of farms, just small scale, ethical production. Apprenticed on caretaker farm. You may have heard of that in Massachusetts. I believe it's the second oldest organic farm. About 150, 200 member CSA. Went on to Iowa to start a small farm to Port Julie. To see if we were right for each other while farming. And then, Bert and I together went on to victory acres in upland Indiana down by Muncie. And took a small farm from about 20 CSA members to about 125,000. We had two houses and chicken. We kind of done it all in a lot of different ways. And now we're at our current location. Living a small farm dream. And garlic is hopefully a key part of that. So another part of our farm is a winter Thursday spring room. We just started the season. We built a few houses last summer. We used a seven-meet CSA. We used a few houses. We picked up at the farm. We began to deliver a few houses about a half-hour away. And that was really successful. We ended up with a rainy list by the end of the season. And also we requested more vegetables all the time. People saying, you know, my kids, I'll be eating your lettuce. You're spread it. So that's great. And we're planning on doing another trial. We just started planning and we're hoping to house up in April. We're planning on a weather license. So in terms of our specific garlic cart production, we were looking for a cart with organic hardneck garlic. We have to plant by hand because if you don't have hardneck garlic, it has to be oriented a certain way. Otherwise, the net gets bent and people don't want to buy that. So there's yet to be a machine that can do that efficiently. And so we were looking to scale up production that could do that for us. And also ease some of the labor fatigue that goes into planting, mulching, those sorts of things. Also, in terms of looking for sustainability, trying to find a system that we didn't have to kill as much. We as vegetable farmers are guilty of probably over-skilling. So we're trying to move away from that, especially in our really sandy soils, low organic matter. We need to really work on that. So that was kind of one of our goals. We were kind of hoping the cart would help us mulch the straw and aid in harvesting as well. One of the products we have so far is a review of carts available. So this is a 34-page document that's available on the SARE website. That kind of part of our grant was working with Purdue University. So their Ag Engineering Department had a couple students that came up to the farm, kind of figured out what we needed. And it was their job to see what was out there and see if they could come up with a better system. Something that wasn't commercially available. So I'm not, I can weld, I'm not a great welder. So this was a great opportunity to partner and maybe come up with something better. So that document is available. So if you're thinking about ways to increase your comfort level, whether you have strawberries or any sort of crop, it's a really useful document. So this would give you an idea of what a production system actually looks like as we think about what kind of cart, kind of machine you want to help us in our farm. So you can see, this is a mixture of a plant of field. That's in our toll road. But we're going to start looking at a niche line. So we scan our vertical pasture and we spread the top of those fields. And then, first part of August, that's when we do the cover crop. So we brought up the broadcast for the cover crop. You can see we do oats, spread the peas, radish, and we let the display. So that's the beginning of August. Then a month later in October, then comes over the tractor, we want to cover cover top strips, create some painting beds, and then strip the beds for final painting, and we add the amendments at that point. And then October 23rd, this is the plant of garlic. And this is specifically what we're looking at the cart for. This is where we are doing everything by hand, phrasing each bowl of the ground. After we've done that, you know, you're covering all that dust and mulching it. And you can see there's some position there that it gets to be a little bit uncomfortable. Then we have the nine months where the garden sits in the ground and deplant early in mid-July. We also spread the irrigation for the water in the garden in the July 1st and cure. So that's the basic reduction system that we're looking at. So we'll take questions at the end, just because we have a short amount of time. So, yeah, we'll do a whole lot of time. So here's some more pictures of us planting. So we have a little of buckets around the race to carry them around where we need to go. And then there's another picture just trying to adjust the back so that you got a little bit of tension at the end of the day. So that's what we currently do our system. Where the drop part is. A lot of hands and knees work, which over a quarter acre, that doesn't sound like a lot. But probably doing that for four days straight, it really kind of adds up to the wear and care on the body. So part of the grant was to kind of look at, okay, where do we really spend a lot of our time? And where can we maximize the use of the equipment? If we're going to spend money on it, how are we going to use that efficiently? So one of the things we did is looked at our system and timed it out. Okay, where are we spending our time? And if you add it all up, planting, harvesting, and molting is where we are spending 60% of our time. And so, and then we also kind of looked at, okay, what's the most physically hard? Actually, harvesting and hanging it, we spend a lot of time there. But that's actually somewhat, not easily, but it's more upright work and it can kind of be done in different stages. So we kind of looked at planting as kind of the big one that we were trying to, trying to address. So how do we eliminate back bending awkward positions? How do we eliminate unnecessary tillage? So this cart is going to be happy, have to be able to drive through this pretty heavy cover crop. And we'll show you some pictures here. And then, of course, related to that, in our sandy soils, you know, we have about 18 inches of top soil. So conserving that moisture is really important to us. And then what's a scale appropriate machine for us? I'm just going to walk through real quick kind of what the student at Purdue found, available options. Here's a card you found. And looking further details, this card didn't end up working that well. The hand crank broke and couldn't really move it along. But maybe it has some merits. This is something that currently exists in the U.S. About $3,500. But we didn't know, you know, we're not doing strawberries, we're doing charlotte. Could it drive through that type of heavy biomass? We weren't sure. This is another cart that's quite a bit more expensive. You have to import it in the U.S. to find it, as far as we could tell. And then here's kind of the cream of the crop, the most ideal cart. I'm kind of like small hank on the wheels. But again, it's pretty expensive. So if you had a lot of acres, it might work. So here's some of the unique features. Yeah, these are unique features of how we do our garlic. So we have a fall living cover crop. It's really important to our farms to build the soil, add those nutrients, create the eration. Feed garlic, not strawberries. Just use some of the crops. Maybe not to the right height for the crop that you're doing. We need something that's small, medium scale, program. We, when Nancy and I want to do a quarter acre, we like to grow that. But it's not a full-time thing at this point. And then also, also something that can be long past. Planting, weeding, harvesting, mulching. And then finally, you want something that can be built on a farm. We have a welding shop, like just across the street from us. If you import something, and there's a mechanical problem, so it's always going to be fixed during your community. So that was something important to us as well. And then not the rise was preferred, but you'll see. Yeah, and as with most grant projects, you go into these ideal thinking, ideal goals, and how it ends up is often very different. And that's okay. I think that's part of why Sayre does these types of funding projects. You don't have to necessarily accomplish all these goals. Here's a picture of the tall cover crop. These are our two boys here. And some years that cover crop can be four feet, depending on how the fall goes. And it really provides probably 80% of our fertility for our garlic. So this is really important that we keep this in our system. Here's what it looks like. I've mowed the strip where our bed is going to be. We do two rows of garlic per bed. Our soils are that four. We can't do that any more intensively. And then we rototill, strip rototill. And so you can see this thick mat right here of cover crop that is going to have to be able to be driven over by some sort of machine if we're going to plant. So here it is a close up with our drip tape. This is after planting. And here's newly doing some planting. And you can see that we have really a lot of cover crop per garlic area plant. And we do that again for our soil. And we're actually moving towards a system where we don't rototill at all, but we just deep rip a row or a shank on our tractor so that we don't have to till at all. And so that's kind of we were trying to think through how we plant. So here's a just our farm all 100 to the shank rip through. You can kind of see that there. We do have some video on our YouTube channel that shows us specifically. We don't see time to play that today, but we did today. So this is what a little looks like around mid-April. May, June, that's when we started to get the garlic scape, which we harvest and each sell or give to friends. And then in July we're looking for about a third of the plant browned out. And then we know it's time to harvest. Yeah. So the garlic part, here's the actual carp. It's really unconstructed. It's got a canopy here where our tarp can be put. And then it's a lay down design. And we have, you know, a place where we can, here's actually better pictures of some of the Purdue students actually driving it around. And we went through about four engineering students and two professors. So turnover was really high, not because the carlet cart was that difficult, but that's just the nature of working with, you know, university students. So that's something we learned. So, I was hoping to be up to about three-quarter acre garlic production by this time. But the carlet cart never really got done. Which actually turned out to be the best thing because maybe family structure time-wise we weren't really ready to go back to the next. So, I thought it would be about a two-year project and a two-quarter hour. And then it's a three-year-old. Yeah, you had to get an extension which, you know, Sarah was gracious, sounded fan. And at this point, through the cart, they're having some trouble with the design in terms of how the wheels actually swivel when it's going down the road. So, we're almost there. But now it's got a new student, new group of students working on it. So, it is what it is. Some lessons learned. Keep it simple. I think we tried to put too many things into one cart. Maybe a couple versions down the road we could have done that. But I think we should have acknowledged that up front. And the motor ended up being, you know, that was kind of a problem as well. Yeah. It's one of the problems with that, so. The students really wanted to motorize it. You know, you think you can do it? I mean, I'm not doing it. Yeah, I know. I'm engineer. We found that the review of the current options was really valuable. That was part of the grant, that was something available to you too. Like you have said that, the teacher before, you've lived in that. So, that was a great part of this. We've given enough time. I mean, if you think a project's going to take two years, maybe two and a half or three. You know, it's not an ideal world. Don't try to do too much. We've kind of said that. And it's about the process. We've really kind of refined our garlic growing process and really thinking about mechanizing why we want to do that. That would be valuable for us. And then, just the concept of working with students is great, but there are some limits to that. So, if you go to a place. Alright. Any questions? We've got a couple minutes for questions. So, anything at all? Yeah. I have a few questions. One about estimated cost in certified by this is for seed garlic. You guys are raising this work, selling as a seed garlic. Yeah. So, we have a website where we sell hardneck seed garlic. And then, we also do eating garlic. And so, we do eating garlic for about 50 cents a bulb. And then, our seed goes for about anywhere from 10 to 12 dollars a pound. Because we're not certified organic, we can't charge quite that higher price. But that's certainly where, yeah. We are certified and actually grown. And our eating garlic price we might have here to have customers telling us, you're not charging that. Multiple people. We're not charging. Yeah. It cost us about 30 cents a linear row foot to produce the garlic. So, we thought, oh, 50 cents of all, that's a pretty good cost. We should do it more. Can we answer all the questions? Oh, Bob, one more about the price of bringing that value to produce the product so far. Oh, I can do that too. Yeah. Well, fortunately, one of the great things with working with Purdue is that they had, the students each have a budget so that they can order some of the materials they didn't have to pay for. So, we did like a 50-50 pot share on that. So, that worked, I mean, that worked out great. So, we're about three grand into the project. Yeah. Okay. Let's say that somebody wants to make that product. And if you got the rent, but if somebody else wants to make the product that you design, or they design, what would it cost me for that without them? Right. And that's where the students have their final report. They'll have their materials with. Yes. Still in five. Yeah. Yeah. Excellent question. Yeah. What could you use of the non-mechanized method for that part to move? Well, anywhere the students end up with this, I'm thinking we might just take the motor off and pull it with our phone off. That might be the simplest. No. They thought about that, but I think the students weren't, didn't know enough, but weren't, didn't have the staff to do that. I don't. But, yeah, I think that's, that's a, would be a viable one. Just the electric motor, no electric motor, no electric motor, to save frame off. Yep. Those, those are good points. Yeah. Yeah. And in that 34 page document, there's kind of a, an assessment of, of, to be used electric, why or not. So. The one that you were showing before, I've seen that one when I was sitting on. Okay. They were like, yeah. The one that you said that could be out the water through the. So, they were like. Right. Right. So, they were like. Yeah. I'm curious what your cover top was, and if you had something less high cover top. I want my cover top to winter kill, because we're not gonna, we want it to grow as long as possible, and then we molt. Sometimes we melt in the fall, sometimes we melt in the spring. And so, I don't, I can't come in there with an herbicide to burn it down. I plant it, so I can't till. It's oats, radish, and Canadian field peas. Yeah, that, we, we know we burned through that really quick. Any other questions? Yeah. Any different row widths? Any different row widths? Any different row widths? Yeah. Oh, sorry. Any different row widths? Yeah, so we, part of the reason we do two rows, um, to a bed, and then our beds are 36 inches on center, is because of our soil fertility, our soil and so forth, basically sands, um, and the way our cultivating tractors set up, that was kind of the easiest. The cart was then designed for that, um, yeah, four feet wide. So you could straddle one bed at a time. Have you considered a cover crop where you could use a roller crimper in the springtime? The question is, have we considered using a roller crimper as a cover crop? Um, yes. The problem is roller crimping, um, like, particularly winter peas, um, it needs to be flowery, um, to actually kill it at crimping. Um, and likewise the oats would have to be at, um, grain fill. So, yeah, something we could consider, um, the timing didn't work for it. Yeah, it might, if it winter killed, but again, ripping that narrow shank through, we may not even need to drink it. It's what we're doing. So we're actually trying to not even touch the cover crop. Yeah. Can we, uh, just one side of garlic? Good question. Are we growing more than one side of garlic? Yes. We have about seven varieties right now. We grow, we sell four. We sell Ukraine, music, uh, German writing, and caretaker. And then we have three or four others that we're working on building stock for. Are they all generally ones that, uh, mature and, uh, uh, in the, uh, in the, uh, early July period or, uh, in the, uh, in the, uh, in the, uh, in the, uh, in the, uh, in the early July period or, uh, in the winter. Yeah. Some of our, um, we do like a porcelain, lacombe, and, uh, uh, asiatics, sort of, kind of, three categories. And our asiatics kind of, um, be ready to grow. Which works well. Okay. The technique works well. Space. So that it's not all at the same time. Yes. Can you use a motion to scroll? Yes. A, a, a wheat straw. Um, we have quite a bit of pasture that a guy costs for us. And so we exchange a wheat straw for wheat straw. If you find that it's hard to weed it, mold it, or do you need to weed it? Well, we mold it thick enough so we don't have to. That's, that's our goal. But, yeah, if we do need to weed, we are in there by hand. Three to big orange crazy pesticides questions in large. Yeah, I've done a little bit of experiment. We do apply a little bit of nitrogen blood meal because of our sandy soil. So I'm starting to try to cut that back a little bit more. And we're looking at a soil test. We've only been in the spot for four years. So we haven't seen a jumping on the earth and have it yet. But yeah, something we're hoping for. With the CART, once it develops, so the current level is a half of the benefit? I'm wondering, what do you think about increasing your, in the amount of labor you have access to, what benefits will the CART give us in terms of increased ages? Okay, so the question is what benefit will the CART give us in terms of increased ages? So right now we don't hire anyone, just for an I. And so the CART will enable us, just in my thinking, looking at the numbers, to double production and still do that. And also, you know, a few years ago, Dan had to teach to give back problems to the point of even work. And you know, loads are fixed now, but we don't want to have that again. So that's a longer time. It's just physical well being exactly. Yeah, and our goal is hopefully someday to farm the full time. Just we're taking it slow. We're going to do things that are bad for our family. We're not just sacrifice ourselves to farm. Does the CART use for harvesting? Well, the question was, is the CART used for harvesting? I don't think it will be. But right now when we harvest, we're able to pull the plants, because our soil is so light, it's one advantage of the sand. And we pick it right into a wagon, pulled by a truck. So that's much more efficient. Yeah? What's your current yield on a quarter acre? The question was, what is your current yield on a quarter acre? So we do, I haven't looked at these numbers for so long. The garlic community plant doesn't come to me about it. But we plant a bulb every six inches. So our rows are about 250 feet long. And so we have, let's just say we have 10 rows. So that's 10 times 250. That's 2500 times 5,000 bulbs. And about, probably six, 40 to 50% of that is actual marketable seed garlic. In terms of size and grade. And then the rest are in grade. That's typically what we plant. That varies by variety. But that's a down. Any other questions? Yeah, a parasite problem. I haven't seen it. Yeah, when, well it was a few years ago when we had that, like, even for it, brought in, I'm sure it's the name of the seed right now, but, where it devastated a lot of dollars to the box. We didn't have that. Do you do foliar feed? Yes, we do foliar feed. Calcium particularly. Because in sandy soil, calcium is one of the first things to leach out. And so we, I do a little fish fertilizer and calcium mix. I spray every health, 14 days. During the month of, end of April, through the day. And we found that that makes a difference. Do you have business cards? If anyone wants to on for our contact information. We have a website and a Facebook page and I'm glad to take questions. Always willing to learn and grow from other people trying to grow garlic. Yeah. We actually sell out, like, in October. We do pre-sales. We let our customers know in June. And then they pre-orders. And it goes really fast. So that's our, we offer numbers. We like to move into restaurants and grocery stores. But, like you said, it's a slow grow. It just makes fun. Yeah, me and use it. I'm gonna send it up to a moment to everyone. Okay. If you can do it, talk to me and we go to a bus one, it says, whatever the buscar has turned out of the bus. We 준비 the door at Fort center or town. And maybe, I just did ask this earlier. Oh no oneARR caffeine system. Do you want to execute? Okay. Yeah. Yeah thank you Thank You Thank you.