Solar Fencing for Agricultural Land at Low Cost | Solar Electric Fence
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b7IQyyoQ2Bc
Howto & Style
 Hi friends! Welcome to the Agro Adventure YouTube channel. In this video, let's explore on solar fencing system in short and simple. But before we get started, make sure to hit that subscribe button and turn on notifications so you don't miss any of our new videos. Solar fencing systems are an innovative and efficient way to protect agricultural land and livestock from intruders. Farmers can use solar fencing systems to keep out wild animals, stray cattle, and other unwanted visitors. Here are some of the benefits of using solar fencing systems in agriculture. Cost-effective. Solar fencing systems are cost-effective compared to traditional electric fencing systems. They use solar energy to charge the battery, which means that there are no electricity bills to pay. Environmentally friendly. Solar fencing systems are environmentally friendly since they use solar energy instead of electricity. This helps reduce the carbon footprint and promotes sustainability. Easy to install. Solar fencing systems are easy to install and require minimal maintenance. They can be installed in remote locations where electricity is not readily available. Highly effective. Solar fencing systems are highly effective in deterring intruders. The fence is electrified and sends a high voltage shock to any intruder who tries to cross it. Protects crops and livestock. Solar fencing systems protect crops and livestock from wild animals and stray cattle. This helps farmers reduce crop damage and losses due to animal attacks. Provides security. Solar fencing systems provide security for farmers. They can rest easy knowing that their property and livestock are protected from intruders. Solar fencing system price. The price depends on the land size and where the solar fencing system needs to be installed. You can contact Krishi Store to get solar fencing system installed at a reasonable price and protect your crops and livestock from intruders. Krishi Store's website link is in the video description. Hello farmer friends. Today we are presenting solar fencing energizers at Krishi Store's stall. So we have three models to showcase here. So let us start with the smallest model that we have. This is the smallest model that we have and it is capable of fencing up to 10 acres. But for small animals only. This has the solar attachment, battery attachment, auto mode and every feature that is available in the larger models. But it is only capable of 10 acres. Now let us move on to the bigger model that we have. This is capable of 25 acres. But bigger animals also. This also has the solar attachment. It comes with 20 watt panel by default. And it comes with a 12 volt, 12 ampere battery. This switch turns on or off the machine. This toggles between the high power or low power mode. This toggles between 12 hour and 24 hour mode. This turns on or off the siren. Here you can connect solar panel and here you can connect the battery. At the back of it, there are two terminals. Earthing and phase. This is the current terminal. But both need to go through the fence for the best impact. Now this is the prime model that we have. It is called a CCM. This model is capable of fencing up to 50 acres. And the same layout is here. But connectors are given on the side. For better mounting on the poles. And same earthing and phase terminals at the back. Now the good thing about all of these models. Is that all of these models have 3 years of warranty. And if you get installation from us. Where we will provide you labour. Installation engineers. And transport also. Then we provide you services up to 10 years. And you can easily generate a quotation in 3 simple steps. All you have to do is scan that QR code. Go to our website. Fill out a very small form. And you will get an email with it within 10 minutes. That is how easy the process of getting quotation is. In conclusion. Solar fencing systems are a cost-effective. Environmentally friendly. And highly effective way to protect agricultural land. And livestock from intruders. Farmers can use solar fencing systems to protect their crops. And livestock. Reduce losses due to animal attacks. And provide security for themselves. And their families. By investing in solar fencing systems. Farmers can promote sustainability. And increase their productivity and profits. Thank you for watching. Please like and share the video with your friends. And subscribe to our channel, Agro Adventure. And subscribe to our channel, Agro Adventure.