Immigration raids leading to farming labor shortage?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bd0ect-9hBE
News & Politics
 Well, recent raids against undocumented immigrants are resulting in some unexpected consequences for the U.S. agriculture industry. Fox News' Steve Harrigan has the details from Jacksonville, Florida. Food growers here say it is the worst feeling imaginable to look out at your crops and see them rot in the field because you simply don't have the labor to bring them in. It could happen to many here this season. We will have strong borders again. President Trump's immigration policy has divided Florida, pitting supporters in the north and central part of the state who back his call for tough border control. We do respect the people that are here, but my ancestors came over here legally and they came over and they did, went through the right procedures to be in this great country and we welcome everybody. We are the capital of immigrants in Miami Dane County. Against parts of southern Florida where the immigrant population is among the highest in the country. This executive order, this presidential order that came down represents exactly the contrary, represents fear, represents prosecution, represents hate, and it's anti-immigrant. But any crackdown against illegal migrants could have unintended consequences for a key segment of the state's economy. One quarter of Paul DeMar's tomato crop could be left to rot in the field this season. We haven't got any labor, which is really bad, so we can't pick the crops. And there's nothing worse than growing a crop and not being able to pick it. Row crops like tomatoes and peppers require pickers to stoop all day in the heat. Backbreaking labor traditionally performed by seasonal Mexican farm workers, more than half undocumented. It is piece work per bucket. A skilled picker can earn $150 a day. Any increase in deportations could shrink that labor force even further, forcing some, like DeMar, whose family has grown tomatoes for 90 years, out of business entirely. The labor shortage in agriculture nationwide is already costing growers more than $5 billion in losses. Leah and Lauren, back to you. All right, Steve Harrigan, thank you.