Layers Of Soil - The Dr. Binocs Show | Best Learning Videos For Kids | Peekaboo Kidz
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bgqea0E2eAY
Education
 The Feel of the Soil Hey friends! Don't you just love the feel of the soil? That's why I love gardening! Hey Dr. B! What you doing? Oh! Hey there Mr. Mole! I was just telling my friends about how I love gardening in the soil. Oh yes! I love it too! I practically live in it! But do they know what we see? It's just the very tippy top of the soil. Well, that's a wonderful idea Mr. Mole! Today let's tell them about the different layers of the soil. Come friends, zoom in! So friends, the soil is made up of five distinct layers. The one on which we stand is called the O-Horizon. This is the topmost layer where the leaves and organic matter decompose and forms the hummus. This tells us how fertile the soil can be. Based on the soil type, it may be thick, thin or completely absent. Just below is the A-Horizon, also called the topsoil. This is where we plant our seeds so they can grow to be strong, healthy plants. This is because it is rich in minerals and hummus. It is soft and porous, so that plants can stretch their roots with ease. This is also where worms and rodents make their home. Welcome to my humble abode! Below this, we have the B-Horizon or the subsoil. It is hard and compact, so only the roots of big and strong plants can reach this far down. And all their hard work pays off. As this layer is rich in mineral deposits and clay. Now we come to the Sea Horizon or the Regolith. Funny word, right? This is the layer of weathered parent rock. And has no plant or organic matter at all. And finally, we have the bedrock. This is the hardest layer and consists of the unweathered parent rock. Which supports all layers above it. Just as your parents support you. That's it for today. Wait, Dr. B. Aren't you forgetting something? Oh, that's right. I almost forgot. Trivia time! Turt is simply soil that has lost the ability to sustain life. It's dead soil. There is another layer of soil between the A and B horizon. Called the Eluviation layer. Or the E-Horizon. This was fun, wasn't it? There's so much going on right under our noses. You mean under our feet, Dr. B? So friends, what is the other name for layer C? Well, think about it. Till then, I'll be zooming out. Tune in next time for more fun facts!