Indigenous food systems biocultural heritage and the SDGs (session four)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bI6CBnQVHMU
Nonprofits & Activism
 Right, I think we'll make a start now. Welcome back everyone, really nice to see you all again. And this is the fourth and the final webinar in the series of the IIEDQ workshop on Indigenous People's Food Systems, Biocultural Heritage and the Sustainable Development Goals. Great, so this final webinar is focusing on exploring research methods, interdisciplinary methods and decolonising methods for research on Indigenous People's Food Systems. So we've had a very rich discussion in the last three webinars. We've heard from many Indigenous experts and I would like to start by highlighting some of the key points that have been made, particularly relating to the priorities for research. So we've heard that Indigenous People's Food Systems and Biocultural Heritage are fundamental for Indigenous People's food systems Indigenous People's food sovereignty, identity, spirituality, health and wellbeing and for everyday life. And that's, we heard that they also play a significant role in the transition to sustainable food systems and can make important contributions to economic, national economies, as we heard yesterday from Hindu Ibrahim, a pastoralist from Chad. I think a key message I've got also is that there's a really strong urgency. that Indigenous Food Systems face many threats, traditional knowledge is disappearing very fast and research must focus on these threats and challenges and not only on the Indigenous Food Systems themselves. The threats include restrictions on forest use and resource use, spread of modern agriculture and modernisation of cultures and inappropriate economic development and also Western education systems. The second message that I got from yesterday is the critical need to do more research on Indigenous People's land rights. As Hindu Ibrahim explained, most land belongs to governments and land that is vital for pastoralists is being sold off to sedentary people. And that is a massive threat to their Indigenous Food Systems. We heard also from the representative from the Arctic region of Russia that the introduction of industrial development has almost destroyed their traditional way of life. And that traditional food culture of hunting and fishing is very close to nature and that that diet is actually essential for survival in that harsh climate. And that in response to the challenges of climate change, they must return to their Indigenous food system. And for this they need to preserve the land. And we learnt that for hunter gatherers in tropical rainforests who are mobile, egalitarian, very culturally diverse, they are also facing many threats from economic expansion and from protected areas. So we also heard from the academic side that land rights is an issue which is under research. We heard from Hindu Ibrahim that Indigenous peoples don't call it food security, they call it food sovereignty. And this is a priority for research as well as food sovereignty is essential to sustain Indigenous knowledge systems. And also she emphasised that maintaining seven generations thinking is really important, not only in Chad, but we also heard that Indigenous peoples in China have this seven generation thinking. Hindu also stressed the need to get traditional knowledge respected on the same level as science. And we heard from FAO that traditional knowledge contains ancestral wisdom, whereas often science is just information. Frank Roy stressed the need to gather evidence of how destructive industrial agriculture is on Indigenous peoples, for example, in Asia. And he also stressed the need for researchers to respect the value of Indigenous knowledge rather than viewing it as backward, as this sometimes happens. And the need to mainstream Indigenous perspectives in research and to respect Indigenous peoples rights and the rights enshrined in the UN Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples. And to support Indigenous methods of knowledge transmission like storytelling. And he stressed the need for a multicultural research approach that blends Indigenous knowledge and science. And we heard that the multiple evidence based approach is one method to do this. We heard that Indigenous peoples would like academics to recognise them as equally expert and that academics can play a useful role in helping to show that Indigenous peoples are experts. And that they should support research that is led by Indigenous peoples. Conventional research that is externally led is not useful to Indigenous peoples and can never fully understand them is something that Hindu Ibrahim emphasised. But there's also, we also heard that there's much scope for collaboration when there is mutual respect. And we heard on the interdisciplinary issue that Indigenous peoples don't have separate fields of study. Everything is interlinked. So community led research can provide a framework for interdisciplinary research. And we heard that it is crucial to empower Indigenous communities and to support community networking. And to also understand the governance issues and engage at policy level. And that more research is needed on gender and women's health issues. And finally, we heard from FAO about the new global hub on Indigenous peoples' food systems that brings together universities, UN agencies and Indigenous peoples and seeks to inform policy processes like the World Food Systems Summit in 2021. And just to mention that Jon Fernández de Alinóa from FAO replied to my question after the webinar because there wasn't enough time. But he confirmed that UK universities can become members of the hub and that the emphasis is placed on institutions and research centres that are doing hands on research with Indigenous peoples and they're respecting the principle of free prior and informed consent. So for this webinar, we will explore Indigenous and decolonising research methods and we'll also explore interdisciplinary research methods. So the first session will focus on interdisciplinary methods, methods that draw on more than one discipline to better understand and protect Indigenous peoples' food systems, to enhance the evidence of their importance and to help address the challenges they face. And then after a 15 minute break, we'll look at the, we'll have a panel of Indigenous peoples talking about decolonising and Indigenous research methods that seek to empower Indigenous peoples and help to address the key challenges they face through the research process. So they strengthen culture, Indigenous knowledge and help to strengthen rights to land and to, to strengthen biodiversity, etc. So I will hand over to Philippa now. She's going to chair the first session. Just to briefly remind presenters that we are a very diverse audience, so please don't use academic jargon. And also for the Q&A that follows each session today, we would prefer if everybody can raise their hand or use the raise hand function and briefly introduce themselves rather than using the chat. But you can use the chat if we run out of time. Okay, thank you so much. I'll hand over to Philippa. Philippa. Philippa. Good morning everyone. So yeah, this first panel is on interdisciplinary methods for research on Indigenous and traditional crops, whole food systems and temporal changes. And I'm going to start by talking about combining ethnobotanical and historical approaches. So ethnobotanical approaches to studying Indigenous food systems can include documenting crop diversity and uses, relationships between crops and land use and between crops and foods. All these elements are connected and subject to dynamic change. There are multitudes of reasons for growing crop varieties as we all know, including for different uses such as food or fodder, for their taste and cooking properties, for their resilient traits or yield, and for their suitability to specific moments within seasonal cycles or specific patches of land. So documenting crop diversity and uses within the local agro-ecological context could include recording which crops are grown in different micro environments and patches created, for example, by differences in soils or altitude or through land use systems and management such as terracing and home gardens. And studying crops from cultivations through to cooking practices can include all the practical steps from harvesting through to storage and food preparation and how they connect with material culture, technologies, cultural practices and knowledge. So many crops considered minor today have been more important in the past. And documenting farmers' memories can provide valuable information about crop uses, about the advantages of different crops, about growing methods that are useful and being forgotten and reasons for any of these changes. And historical documents and archaeobotanical data can then provide further information on the long-term crop histories and insights into their local environmental suitability. So over the past years I've been collaborating with Sudanese colleagues in Nubian communities studying traditional crops. The project is based in the hyper-arid north where agriculture is centred on family farms and dependent on the River Nile. So I've got a couple of slides to show now that introduce my collaborators and some of the farming environments and associated traditional material culture. So I will just... But we interviewed farmers about crops they have grown today and in the past to compare their uses and where they are grown. We recorded cultivation and crop processing methods, focusing on cereals and pulses, as well as associated foods. Elderly farmers were also asked how practices have changed with the introduction of new crops and methods, especially since the mid-20th century when traditional irrigation systems changed. So several previously staple crops are now minor food crops and there are many reasons for such changes, including shifts in food preferences and processing methods. And many of these crops are now just grown for home use in small patches, especially along the riverbanks. Today we brought beans to a dominant commercial and food pulse crop, but previously a wide diversity of pulses were eaten more frequently, especially lab lab and cowpea. And baked wheat bread has also become an increasingly dominant food, partly replacing flatbreads, which also used to be made with a wider range of cereal and pulse flowers. So changes in crops and foods are also reflected by material shifts, such as the disappearance of many traditional kitchens and storage rooms. And the dominant hybrid crops in use today can only be grown in the winter and are dependent on intensive irrigation. In contrast, the local cultivars of African crops that were dominant in the past are low input and could be grown throughout the year. And these previously important crop species have a long history of use in the archaeological record of the region, helping highlight their long term stories and environmental suitability. But connecting botanical plant identifications and local names is always a key element of ethnobotanical research. And recording the names of crops and types of foods in Nubian as well as in Arabic was also important. Some words were more specific in Nubian and this knowledge is also endangered as it is mostly held within the memories of the older generations and Nubian languages are themselves also endangered. So to help preserve the local agricultural histories, the findings were summarized in a booklet that was shared with local communities. And its content and design involved the local community and teachers throughout. I will now present a video for my colleague, Mohamed Saad, who discusses our research in Sudan further. Mohamed works at the National Museum in Khartoum. The agriculture in the past depends on the simple system of irrigation shadows and sagia as well as traditional tools to cultivate and harvest the crops. It is very important to talk to the old people and farmers about their agriculture because some of them still they grow older crops for food in a small area. Because they are important as easy to grow when it is hot. And the main crops is wheat and beans and debts. Also the old farmers they have good knowledge especially about growing crops, season, snare floods. Some change happened when the farmers used the modern system of irrigation and also they used the machine to cultivate their crops. Some farmers they changed from food crops to cash crops. As well as also some change happened because people they grow like a big land instead of small land. Brilliant, thanks. And now we're going to move on quickly to Raj Puri from the University of Kent. He's going to talk about using ethnobotany and participatory action research to document agrobiodiversity. Over to you. Okay. Hello everyone. Pleasure to be here. Nice to see you all. Okay, I'm going to try and link these three things as best as I can. I don't have any slides, but I'm happy to answer questions afterwards. Okay, ethnobotany then studies the relationship of people to plants. And we think of that relationship as mutual, an interdependency caused by co-evolutionary processes that results in what we like to call biocultural diversity. I'm sure many of you are familiar with this. So our food plants and other cultivated crops are some of the clearest examples of this ongoing co-evolutionary process. Wherein we have manipulated and domesticated these plants and produced this agrobiodiversity. But they have also domesticated us. And produced the knowledge that we need to grow, protect, harvest, store, and use those plants. And those uses derive ultimately from the material, symbolic, and spiritual needs, beliefs, practices, and values that underpin the cultural lives of peoples around the world. So when we speak of agrobiodiversity, that's only half the story. For what are plant varieties, seeds, and other plant parts without the cultural context and shared knowledges that enliven them and give them meaning? So losing one aspect here necessarily leads to losses in the other. Maintaining crop diversity requires maintaining the recipes for dishes, the celebratory feasts and rituals that require these special varieties. Conserving biocultural diversity, therefore, is a multidisciplinary task requiring integrated research on this co-evolutionary relationship, on this biocultural diversity. On its resilience and threats to it, from globalization and climate change, to name just a couple. And on its changing nature culture as it transforms in the face of both internal and external forces and trends of change. So there are many manuals out there and many examples of research of this kind being conducted around the world. I wanted today to focus on participatory action research, or PAR, using tested and tried ethnobotanical methods to solve problems, but being conducted by residents of communities who are trying to resolve these problems, and develop new directions for their lives and livelihoods. So our role in this is as consultants and trainers, gathering together people to help them think through issues, providing training and perhaps funds to collect and analyze data for themselves, about themselves, helping them to protect, store, and disseminate their knowledge as they see fit. Now one fact that we have learned is that no one knows everything about the plants people know and use. And what people do know often differs. There are knowledges of men, of women, of children, of elders, of farmers, of gatherers, of hunters, of fishers. So one important role of an ethnobotanist in PAR is to find ways to get people to share their own knowledge with each other. You can think of great examples, Mark Plotkin, Sorcerer's Apprentice in the 1980s and 90s, trying to get children to learn the traditional medicine of their elders. In Saba, we had a project studying rattan and basketry, and the elders of the community set up workshops to teach their children because they realized that they didn't know about basketry, about rattan, and about the plants and dyes that went into it. So we do this through interviewing, for instance, in focus groups of, say, only older women or only younger men, so that they can learn from each other in the process of doing this research. And we do this through community mapping exercises. Through inventory and gardens, or interviewing along plant trails. All of these can be done by community members. So they may collect specimens and seeds for a community herbarium, a garden, or a seed bank, or sit down and write a plant manual in local language for their kids. Or they may choose to record it all on video, using what we call participatory video, or PV, developed by our friends at Insight Share. I've been associated with several of these projects over the years, and our students at Kent have been sort of leading the way with their projects' engagements with communities to produce gardens, manuals, and videos around the world. I'd also like to point up the work done by the Global Diversity Foundation, who emphasized long-term commitments to communities to foster capacity building, so that communities can document their own knowledges. In India, where I've been working recently, A-Tree researchers have helped communities deal with the impacts of invasive species on forest undergrowth by setting up nurseries to grow some of their important wild food and medicinal plants in their own home gardens. In Saba, GDF led a PAR project with Doosun communities and NGOs to use participatory resource inventory methods to document knowledge and use of plants for the purposes of designing community use zones in the Crocker State Park. All that research and training and their GIS maps that they made themselves became essential and vital when a proposal to dam and flood their valley was dramatically announced. Fortunately, they were successful in killing off this idea. So there are other examples I can talk about, and I'm interested to hear from the other panel members what they think. But that's all I have to say, and thanks very much for listening. Thank you very much. It was brilliant. We're going to pass over quickly now to Roger Blench, who's going to talk about using ethnobotany botanical linguistics and anthropology to understand Indigenous food systems. Okay, I was ticked off for not having pictures in this slideshow. So you'll just have to put up with text. Sorry about that. Okay. I'm not also going to talk about the advertised topic, but rather the whole issue of documentation, which is a personal obsession. As far as I'm concerned, the documentation of basic ethnobiological systems remains in a very poor state. And in my view, it's in fact deteriorated in the last 40 years. I mean, a lot of discussion at this workshop is about activism. And of course, that is absolutely crucial. But to my way of thinking, activism has to have an evidential base. In other words, you know, it's easy to say that we must protect XXXXX, but exactly what are we protecting? That's important to understand. There's also a problem of the making useful older documentation. There's a load of older documentation, often in obscure sources or in problematic languages. These are not easily available to present researchers, present activists. So turning older stuff into useful material also seems to me an important priority. Making it accessible and something I mentioned the other day I've been working on, which is turning ethnobotanical stuff into Android applications that people can use on their phones. I also mentioned an important thing, which seems to me. People put out ethnobotanical databases on the Internet. This is mainly because they get grants and they have data and they put it up and it's useful. It's then, of course, unmaintained because the grant finishes and the creator of the project moves on. This goes back, I think, to what FAO was talking about. We have to scrape, if you like, all this documentation which people have worked hard to prepare and put it in a form that's accessible and interlinked with other sources. So there's a lot of stuff to be done on making data available in common formats which can be consulted by NGOs, by activists, by scientists. So it has a sort of multi-use format. Interdisciplinary research. Well, we've heard a great deal about that and this is what this section is about. My experience of certain organizations, even those represented in this workshop, is that they speak in forked tongues. In other words, you can certainly have a unit that's interested in local information and local cultural practices and useful plants. But at the same time, there are other units in the same body which are interested in promoting hard science and publishing papers in nature and science and so on, for whom all this cultural stuff is a load of hooey, frankly. And of course, that's unfortunately where the money is these days. And we see this in lots of lots of disciplines, not only archaeology as well as ethnobotany. There's a problem with funders. Funders like to support advances in individual disciplines. And this makes plant scientists in particular turn away from economic botany. I've talked to many botanists for whom this is all just, you know, fluff, if you like. People publish enormous, hardcore botanical surveys of individual countries. We're not a single mention of even whether plants are domestic or non-domestic, let alone anything to do with uses and local names. Similarly, there's a major problem, I think, with the way information is reviewed in journals. In other words, you know, if you do ethnobotanical documentation of a particular group of people, actually publishing it in a journal is really quite hard. I mean, you can put it out there on the web, and I think that's what a lot of people do. But I think there are great difficulties in even getting out basic documentation. I'll give you an example here. I work in Nigeria and I work in North East India. In those two places, 502 and around 250 languages are spoken. I should say, in Nigeria, there are maybe satisfactory ethnobotanical and ethno-zoological documentation for maybe four languages. And none, not one in North East India. And I don't mean, you know, a list of a couple of plants, but I mean a proper, solid documentation such as been undertaken in Central America. So there's a real uphill task. A crucial thing, in my view, is a lack of field guides. Field guides are essential, essential to doing serious ethno-science, ethnobiology. If you can't even discuss, you can't even discuss the identification of plants and animals with people because you don't have field guide. So even if you are willing, for example, you can't easily get, you know, a chance at identification. So I just want to want to emphasize really this absence of field guides and maybe an absence of a data bank of non-copyright photographs, which can be used to compile field guides. So I think all these are issues we have to think about. OK. Brilliant. Thank you very much. So we're just going to stop quickly for some questions, which, just reset my clock. So how are we doing? 35. So, yeah, if we could just stop for around five minutes of questions, that would be great. Has anyone got any questions? They can raise their hand or put a question into the chat box. And then afterwards, we'll move on to the next round of Flash Talks. Sorry to have a question from me, but just as nobody raised their hand immediately. Thank you very much, all of you. That was really interesting. I wanted to ask a question to Roger. I've worked quite a bit on protecting traditional knowledge. And the main route by which biopiracy happens in unauthorized use and commercial use of traditional knowledge is through published databases of traditional knowledge. So I was just wondering how you address that issue, because obviously this documentation work is important. And as you say, it's really important to have the evidence base to support activism. But the concern is by making it available that anybody could get their hands on it and abuse, use it inappropriately and without benefits for communities. So I'm just wondering how you address that issue. Thanks. Well, obviously, the first important thing is that you must get consent for dissemination of knowledge from the people you're working with. I have to say I've never found this a problem in the two areas of the world I work. People love the idea that, you know, their culture is being disseminated more widely in the world. But these issues certainly have come up in the Amazon, although I do understand it's become less of a problem in more in more recent times because more companies are less interested in biodiversity chemicals and more interested in sort of mechanical processes for developing things. But it remains an issue. And I think the only way around this is to ensure that you definitely have the consent of the community for the dissemination of knowledge. And then what can you do if it's out there? It's out there. Nobody can predict what might might be found to be useful. And so. There's no to what there's no real way around this as far as I can see. It's consent is crucial. OK, a question here from George McAllister about the question. Could the speakers share their thoughts on how to undertake participatory action research in a time of COVID? Perhaps in terms of ethics, tools and practices for building trust and capacity for community led processes? Raj, I think this might be for you. Yeah, thanks. Good question. Very difficult. In fact, we just submitted a grant to the ESRC here in the UK to try and get funding to do just that. And it was shot down as being one of the comment. One of the viewers said that they wondered if it was unethical to interview the same family three times in a year. So that just goes to show you perhaps who's reviewing these these proposals. But our goal there was to work in pre-existing with pre-existing relationships we have with a couple of communities in London and Birmingham already. So making use of pre-existing networks and getting members of the communities that we were interested in Afro-Jamaican, Afro-Caribbean communities and South Asian communities. To do research amongst their own people, amongst their own neighbors and families to kind of get a sense of how they were reacting to COVID-19 in terms of their use of traditional healing methods, self-care, etc. So, you know, the way to do it really is, again, through good and close rapport building and close relationships with pre-existing networks in the case of COVID-19. Starting something brand new might be a bit difficult. We note I was also part of an online survey, and we noted that very few members of the South Asian or the Afro-Caribbean community were answering online surveys about what they were doing during COVID-19. And it was clear that that's why ethnographic research, as much as you could do in terms of face-to-face interviewing, whether it's by Zoom or telephone or WhatsApp or on the doorstep, was really important. You know, people from minority groups often are just either don't have linguistic or digital capabilities for talents for using those kinds of online surveys. So, I don't know. I hope that answered some of your questions. Yeah, thank you. Thanks. Thanks, Max. If I can contact you outside of this forum, that would be wonderful. Thanks. Oh, yeah. Pleasure. Pleasure. Thank you. There's a few comments here in the chat. I'm just reading Harriet. Okay, so that might be something that someone else could, anyone could answer that question? But I think we also need to move on with the team. Christina, what's the best way to carry on answering some of the questions here if we need to get going with the talks? Would it be good for people to just send a couple of replies into the chat? Yes, I think that would be the best. While we move on, if you could reply to the question in the chat, I think. Cool. Well, anyway, we'd better move on. So, the next round of talks, still talking about more different sort of interdisciplinary methods. And so we're going to start now with Paul Wilkin from Kew, who's going to present our botanical science for conserving orphan crops and indigenous knowledge. Over to you, Paul. Well, if that isn't a big enough task for three minutes, I also thought I would say that the comments I'm about to make also cover niche crops and wild exploited plant resources, really across the whole spectrum of domestication. I think what we're talking about in terms of botanical science boils down to four key questions. We've already started to touch on some of those. The first one is, what is it? Inventory is a critical part of species, land races, farms, varieties, but also looking at particular trait variation. And in current research approaches, we've also want to look at genetics and genomics as ways of describing and understanding the diversity that we're seeing in front of us. And we want to see participatory shared and restored knowledge within that context. The next key question is, where is it? We want to geolocate the material we're looking at. And that brings into play a whole load of spatial research methods that I'm not going to talk about today, time. And then once we've done those preliminary steps and those are the two most critical first steps, then we start to think about conservation. Conservation is vital. We are aware of that and the population of the globe is increasingly aware of that. So first we would look at in situ methods of conservation. We'd look at cultivation either in situ or close to in situ. And then once those methods are exhausted, we've moved to ex situ methods, in particular around seed banking or cryopreservation. And all of those are the suite of approaches that are open to us to make sure that we have access to the relevant germplasm. And then the bit which is often forgotten, the part on the end, is what do we do with the conserved material? How do we regenerate plants from that and how do we get them back where they're needed? So we'd be wanting to look at things like seed germination ecology and the extraction of cryopreserved material and regeneration of it as critical approaches to delivering the plant resources that people need. So I think I will leave it at that. Thank you, Paul. I was wondering as well if you could just say something really briefly on maybe how there's different approaches for different categories of crops. So for example, the seed crops like cereals versus the vegetative crops. From conservation perspective, you mean, Philippa? For many of the steps one to three really, for the in situ, for the in situ work or characterising it? Evidently, seed bearing crops like cereals are relatively easy to bank. Crops which are based on underground organs, which are vegetatively propagated, are much harder to conserve. They usually require germplasm collections, which are expensive to maintain and often find it very difficult to retain information associated with the accessions in those collections. So they're often two or three years down the line are often quite worthless. And then you end up resorting to cryo approaches, which are extremely expensive and technical and difficult to approach, but may be the vital way of preserving. So IITA in Nigeria concerns much of its yam diversity through cryo because it's the only approach that works. IITA in Nigeria. Okay, thanks. And now we're going to briefly explain what cryo is. A lot of technical jargon coming through. Thank you. Yeah, I forgot tissue culture, which is another way to conserve. Cryo preservation, so freezing of embryos down at very low temperatures, and then they can then be, plants can be regrown from those preserved embryos. Thank you. Thank you. And now we're going to move on to, where am I? To Tufiana Lunion from Kew, who's going to talk about using plant diversity and ethnobotomy to support community livelihoods. Thank you. Yeah, thank you, Philippa. I'm going to share my screen. I have a slide. Yeah. Okay. Well, good morning, everybody. So, I'm going here to talk about our research methods through the project, the USUPLAN project, that I've been coordinating for several years. This is a project that was developed and carried out in Africa and also Latin America. So, the aim of this project was to basically conserve ex situ indigenous USUPLANs. Those ones that were important for local community by building actually the local capacity to successfully conserve and use them. So, the main components of the project can be summarized as follows. So, we have one part of targeting and prioritizing the species. So, by using different methods. So, one hand we did, of course, literature review to see what was already available there. On the other hand, we have been really carrying out a trombotanica surveys by working directly with the local community. But, at the end, we had really to come up with a short list of most important species where we could focus on and do really our conservation and sustainable use activity. And we did this through workshop, participatory workshop. And then, another component has been on the seed conservation. So, seed conservation was applied to the priority species. And we did the seed conservation together with local community and with our collaborators in country by collecting and storing the seeds. Then, we have been propagating those seeds in order to have them available. Not only for research, but, of course, for the community. In a way, in this way, we established community garden, but also forestry plots in the case of Kenya, where we've been propagating this priority and cultivating the species. And lastly, we have been developing methods in order to create some income in the community through the selling of plants directly, seedlings, but also plant products, in particular food products. So, how did we do all of this? Well, we applied a participatory approach, as I said, by working together with the community from the beginning to the end. And also reaching out to other stakeholders by involving them in our activities and in our products. Our approach was also multidisciplinary, as we carry out different kinds of research. We carry out a thrombotanical research, but also we carry out research on seed biology and ecology to inform both the management of the seeds, but also the conservation of the seeds, how to propagate those seeds. And then we develop propagation protocol. And we also establish some agricultural plots in order to look at the growth rate and the survival of these species. So, to conclude, what did we do with all this information? Well, the one that also we generated, we gave it back to the local community through training, but also we helped enhancing the local activities. And also we summarized all our information in the book that you can see here on the corner on the right. And we produced this book, which is a white plant for a sustainable future. We compiled all the information that we collected from the community, our own information that we generated through the research and try to condense it in this book, where we have in there ethnobotanical information, where other sort of botanical information, species description, so that people can identify the species. That's something that came out earlier in the talk, but at the same time, how to know how to deal with the species from a conservation and sustainable use point of view. So this is a book that is aimed to practitioners in country, but also that they work in development outside, with the aim really to help them use the species and conserve them. And in a way that can help addressing community livelihoods and conservation at the same time. Thank you very much. Thank you so much. So we're going to move on to Julian. Julian Garay-Dásquez, who's going to talk about identifying archivotanical evidence for plant processing techniques. Julian Garay-Dásquez, over to you. Julian Garay-Dásquez, So basically, I am a PhD student at University College London, and I do archaeobotanical analysis to understand human plant dynamics in indigenous communities in the Caribbean through archaeological methods. Julian Garay-Dásquez, and one of the things that I realized is that through archaeobotany, you know, we can identify many types of plants from the archaeological record. However, at times, we don't understand how to process them because as has been said in the in the workshop that there's indigenous knowledge that gets lost. Julian Garay-Dásquez, however, I am here to kind of like contra repose and the reality is that it's not lost. Our ancestors have this information in the in the archaeological records. You know, they are the bearers, the custodians of this information that got lost and we can work using our cubotanical methods to bring it back to the present. Julian Garay-Dásquez, And this image is just one of the activities that I do to understand the how the different methods of processing manioc, which is here. Julian Garay-Dásquez, And this also helps not just, you know, going through the motions of actually cooking the dish, which is cassava bread. Julian Garay-Dásquez, Which you can see here, but also it helps you understand how those things get to the archaeological record and the way that I do. Julian Garay-Dásquez, This type of revitalization of indigenous fruit practices is by using collection of carbonized plant remains and then from those there are fragments which look like fruit or are specially also. Julian Garay-Dásquez, Tuber fragments and using scanning electron microscope, you can potentially identify those foods, but beyond the simple identification of species or. Julian Garay-Dásquez, What type of food it is, you can actually try to assess. Julian Garay-Dásquez, Food. Julian Garay-Dásquez, Food. Julian Garay-Dásquez, Taste preferences and actually if this type of research is done on a more larger scale, you can try and start getting a sense of contextualizing the food habits of people. Julian Garay-Dásquez, And that's something that I'm trying to work on throughout my work and not to, as I said before, revitalizing indigenous fruit practices, which is this image, which is from the Taino New Year celebration in my island of Boricay. Julian Garay-Dáez, Food. Julian Garay-Dásquez, Food. Julian Garay-Dásquez, Food. Julian Garay-Dásquez, Food.ania, Food. Julian Garay-Dásquez, Food. Julian Garay-Dásquez, Food. Julian Garay-Dásquez, Cru. Julian Garay-Dásquez, Food. Julian Garay-Dásquez, Food. Julian Garay-Dásquez, Food. Julian Garay-Dásquez, Food, Food. F-A-A-B-B- kunnen save the whole and more. Julian Garay-Dásquez, Food. Julian Garay-Dásquez, Food. Julian Garay-Dásquez, Food. Julian Garay-Dásquez, Food. Julian Garay-Dásquez, Food. crop histories, archaeobotany of crop histories. So passing over to Dorian Fuller from UCL. Okay good. So I'm an archaeobotanist like Julian who you just heard from. Archaeobotany is the study of the preserved plants from ancient human sites. So it's the archaeology of plants instead of the archaeology of pottery or some other kind of artifact. And it can inform us about the long-term history of crop repertoires within a region. So which crops have come into use and out of use over the long term. It can tell us about ancient changes and diversification and crops. It often tells us about within a particular region how much of an impact the post-Columbian exchange has been between crops from the New World and Old World being shifted around. And we heard you know you will find maize and parts of Asia and Africa being very important. And that's of course a change that's happened within recent centuries. It can also tell us about lost crops or what we might call orphaned crops or crops that are disappearing. And that's kind of what I wanted to focus on today with a few examples. And I've listed some there in red. And I'm gonna quickly walk you through kind of three stories about lost or disappearing crops that archaeology can tell us about that you might not otherwise expect to learn very much about. So it's something that can in a sense complement the kind of ethnobotanical documentation that we've been talking about. So the first of those that I'd like to talk about is brown-topped millet or Brachiaria Ramosa. And this is really the lost staple grain of South India of the Deccan region. Now it's not completely lost. There is a region in northwestern Tamil Nadu and adjacent Karnataka where it is grown on a very small scale or at least it was still grown in the 1990s on a very small scale. The last documented reference to this I know of is from a paper published in economic botany in the year 2000 by a Japanese scholar and some Indian colleagues. And they documented I think two villages that grew this crop that in the late 1990s. And I have a picture there of a map that shows the region where that modern cultivation was and some of the dishes and breads that were made out of this millet, most of which were kind of ritual food. So it was maintained mainly for particular festivals. But the area highlighted in blue, broadly speaking, is and all those dots are where we have archaeological evidence for this as a grain, and often as the dominant grain, the staple grain on many of those sites. So for from around four and a half thousand years ago up until maybe 1500 years ago, this was in many regions a staple food. So it is very much declined as a millet and that's a story that we can only learn about through the archaeological evidence, which then tells us that it was suitable and much more of much more widespread importance and what remains in recent times is just a, you know, a small sample of its past diversity and cultural use. Another example of crops that are completely lost to us in the ethnographic present are some of the examples of North American domesticates. And they're very, two very well documented examples are a lost kinopodium. This is a pseudo cereal similar to modern kinoa, but a separate North American species. And I also Iva annual oil seed and I've got pictures there of Iva annual seeds. It's distantly related to sunflower. Archaeological evidence shows that it undergoes domestication. So you get a larger seeded variety, so called macro carpa variety. Now this variety does not exist today. There's no living biological versions of it. It only exists in the archaeological record. But it's a fairly major crop and oil seeded crop that's cultivated in this Mississippi basin from about from more than 4000 years ago up until at least 1000 years ago, probably later. We don't really know when it goes extinct as a crop. And I would guess that it's around the time of European contact when you have such a large decimation of native populations due to European diseases. So again, it's something that has potential, but it's lost to our kind of ethnographic documentation. And then the third case I'd like to give is one that would seem like a crop we know a lot about wheat. But in fact, there's a lot of kinds of wheat that we don't really know very much about. Today, one thing to note is that wheat comes in lots of different genetic types as several species of wheat really. Today, most of the wheat we eat and most of what's cultivated is either bread wheat or durum wheat. Durum wheat is cultivated especially in the Mediterranean to make pasta and couscous. But these are really quite recent phenomena, these two species of wheat that dominate. So they start to really become important in the Roman period about 2000 years ago, and in places like Britain, maybe only 1000 years ago. And prior to that, there's a real diversity of wheat species and I've kind of circled them there with different colors. I have to just wrap up quickly for the last 30 seconds more. And the one point I would say is that there's two varieties here, what I've highlighted in two gray nine corn, there's a there's a green arrow pointing to it. And this Triticum temephivi, there's a purple arrow pointing to it, which are really dominant species in the Neolithic and Bronze Age and have basically gone extinct since then. So we can see that the wheat diversity around us today, and used traditionally, is not necessarily doesn't necessarily reflect the long term. So archaeology can reveal these patterns of long term change. And that's what I want to say. Brilliant, thank you. Cool. So now we're going to present a video from Matthew Davis at UCL, who will be talking about documenting traditional crops, agri systems and temporal changes in Kenya. Many apologies that I cannot be with you today, as I'm teaching and thanks for indulging me in this opportunity to record a short film. My name is Dr. Matthew Davis, and I work at the Institute for Global Prosperity at University College London. And most of my research has focused on how people manage agricultural landscapes in Eastern Africa. And I'd briefly like to introduce a long standing multidisciplinary research project that has examined food systems in Marraquette in northwest Kenya. This is led by a number of co-investigators, including the PI Professor Henrietta Moore, Dr. Wilson Kip Kore from the University of Alderat, Professor Jacqueline Maglade from Strathmore University and from UCL, and Dr. Sam Lunn-Rockliff from UCL, who should be with you all today. It also includes multiple East African partners, including the East Africa Herbarium and the British Institute in Eastern Africa. Now Marraquette is a rural area that straddles the eastern side of the Karyo Valley. It's well known for its extensive pre-colonial irrigation systems. And our research project has a deep history led by Professor Moore with some continuity going back into the 1970s, and including work by Kenyan scholars such as Ben Kipkorea, Jay Sen Yonga, S. Mutisio and Wilson Kipkore, as well as researchers including Bill Adams, Liz Watson and Ton Dietz. Throughout our research has intersected with food systems and has often taken these as the central focus. But it's also important to note that the work has also focused on many other related issues, particularly broader development interventions such as this Red Cross irrigation scheme and wider processes of ecological management. A key tenant of our research over the last decade has been to develop community led research through citizen scientists, who are community members and who helped determine the research questions, methods and analyses. This citizen science team is led by Mr. Timothy Kipkorea Kipruto and Miss Helena Chepto, pictured here on the left, with one of our key team members, Nelson Balilengo, on the right. Research into food systems by this team has thus always been embedded in wider social, economic, and environmental agenda, often defined by the priorities of the citizen scientists and the community itself, rather than by strict singular research questions. For example, lines of research have examined failed histories of development interventions, many of which have been agricultural in nature, but many of which also have not. A primary aim of this work has thus been to build a detailed history of the community, the agricultural landscape, the rural economy and its wider connections to food production, which necessarily form a core aspect of this. The methods employed have been diverse, but often rooted in different ways of mapping and knowing the wider landscape, and embedding analyses of things, plants, animals, pathways, networks, buildings and interventions within this landscape. So this work has included everything from traditional archaeological field survey to surveys of colonial and postcolonial structures and interventions, combined with multiple forms of ethnographic observation and interview, spanning both ethno-historical and contemporary topics. Particular attention has been paid to physically mapping with GPS and GIS the landscape led by the citizen science team, including mapping contemporary and historic features in relation to food production, settlement patterns, field boundaries, irrigation, terracing, erosion, buildings and other structures. Participant-led mapping has planned individual fields, as you can see here, including their boundaries, routes, pathways, and allowing for detailed in situ ethnographic interviews of what farmers produce where, when, how and in what combinations. Repeat mapping of nearly 100 fields over the last eight years in particular has not only provided quantitative data on the types and combinations of crops, both indigenous and hybrid, but also for deeper conversations about decision making and innovative experimentation. Work on ethnobotany has thus been extensive, including identifying the complex use of some different 10 varieties of sorghum and 12 landrace varieties of finger millet. But we've always situated these in wider systems of food production through time and always focused on the intersection of both indigenous landraces and more hybrid crops. Most recently, we've worked on geo-reference smartphone data recording of interviews, features and photographs, and have developed with farmers bespoke data collection applications using a software called Sapelli that allows farmers to record cropping practices and associated challenges. Although these data are still being collected and are still under analysis. This has resulted in some 29 major cultivated crops being identified, both new and old, with some 36 wild food plants. And these are used in literally hundreds of unique combinations. Overall, then, although this work has documented indigenous food production, the aim has not been to focus solely on the heritage of this, but rather to try to place diverse food production systems within a complex narrative of change and continuity through time and space. And to situate this within contemporary food debates such as those surrounding the notion of an African green revolution. Our aim, I think, has been particularly to help smallholder farmers show how diverse their practices and influences are and to situate their heritage alongside the dynamic use of modern materials, ideas and experimentation. So in short, then, I think this work has been about rethinking the distinctions between traditional and modern practice between continuity and innovation and to recenter smallholder farmers as sources of rather than as the recipients of innovation. So I hope that this quick talk has not been too brief and too confused, but I thank you all very much for listening and hope to hear feedback and questions through the grapevine. Thank you very much. Brilliant. Thanks. Brilliant. Thanks. And when we move on to questions after, I think you could all see the comment from Sam here in the chat. So Sam's with us today so he can address questions and he's also posted a longer version of that video. So now we're going to move on to Sandeep Hazara Singh from Open University who's going to talk about oral history as a method for studying the meaning of food waste in India. Thank you. Thank you, Philippa. Thank you, Philippa. Thank you, Philippa. So this talk is based on recorded and filmed oral history interviews with women smallholders in Garnataka, India, in the context of a recent AHRC-funded collaborative project called Changing Farming Lives in South India, Past and Present. From this experience and in the context of our discussion of food systems and heritage, oral history might provide a particularly amenable entry point for research. This is because oral history is about memory and remembering lived experience. It can therefore document and communicate food traditions and heritage and the meanings and feelings involved in a particularly vivid manner. Secondly, food tends to resonate particularly well with memory in terms of its sensorial ability to trigger rich memories and emotions of food pleasures within home, family and community. This process is known as edible memory. Thirdly, this method offers the capability of generating insights into meanings of food cultures over a significant historical duration. And it is also, finally, conducive to reclaiming the voices and life experiences of indigenous and subaltern groups, such as women, peasants and farmers, and farmers who tend to be marginalized in written documents. Oral history essentially involves the process of co-creation between interviewer and narrator in a way that both highlights narrator agency and invites listeners or viewers into her lived experience. Very often in development writings, the voices of subaltern groups tend to be subsumed by the researchers interpretation, which is what ultimately becomes authoritative. In our project, we began by asking questions that of course were primarily of interest to us as researchers. But participants were encouraged to shape their narratives as much as they wished by talking about food crops, food activities, other subjects and life episodes that they themselves regarded as significant and meaningful. In the process, we discovered that it was foods and diets that the women smallholders were particularly passionate about, especially the beliefs, rituals and knowledges associated with finger millet-based foodways that they were seeking to revive. Rituals involved deities, earth, seeds, animals, birds, and other more than human entities, which have the power to affect food and farming outcomes. Rituals involved deities, earth, and other more than human entities, which have the power to affect food and food and food and food and food and food and food. In contrast, they were much less interested in the economic specificities of crops and livelihoods. So, in this case, I would say that the world has been a part of the world. In contrast, I would say that oral history offers the capacities to understand and change the present in the light of the past. To identify patterns of local, social and climate change. To give voice to hidden and alternative narratives. And finally, to recall cultural memories as a repository of knowledge and resilience for ongoing innovations. Thank you. Thanks, Sandy. That's brilliant. And so we've just got one last video now from Harriet Kulain. Some of you might remember from Monday. And she's talking about participatory methods for exploring Indigenous food systems, health and wellbeing. Thank you for including me in this segment of the program that you have developed there at Kew. And I, I, I, E, D. I'm very happy to be with you to be talking about participatory methods to explore Indigenous peoples' food systems, health and wellbeing. So my experience is through the Centre for Indigenous peoples' nutrition and environment at McGill University in Montreal, Canada, where I was founding director from 1985 until 2009. And I'm still active in promoting the Centre as, which is really why I'm here today. So I have to give credit to many, many people who worked through the Centre over the years and our community collaborators. Not only for the data that we have provided in the many publications, but also for building the strategies for community consultation. When we started our work with the Centre, we had the Indigenous leaders in Canada guiding us on how to have proper community consultation. And in fact, they even lobbied for funding with the Canadian government to help establish the Centre. So we're very grateful to them in particular to Chief Bill Erasmus from the Denny Nation. So our work in the Canadian Arctic during that period of time led to many publications. But I want to call your attention to this publication that was requested from the WHO. This was published in 2003 in English and Spanish. It's on the CINE website as well as the WHO website. Indigenous peoples and participatory health research, planning, management and preparing research agreements. So we learned that there is no one single way to build collaboration. Every community is different, but there are a few key principles that I'd like to call your attention to. First of all, you have to listen. You have to learn, know how to carefully listen to your collaborators in the communities for their concerns, for their ideas on how to do things right from their perspective. So that means you have to maintain a respect for the people and that helps them respect you. You need respect for the food system, the environment and work to continue to build mutual respect for mutual benefit. So that leads to the important concept of trust. You can't get anywhere in community work with research or development without having mutual trust with your community. So one of those principles means you're working with them. You're not working on them. You're not working on nutrition, on the people in X community. You're working with them. You're making intersp gráfic. You're relying on special professionals as well as individuals in the community. Cor Azerbaijani, University��고 Amac ありがとうございます that isковish- iPhone. Corbokki istongau- Cor Broken病ics, Chief of сказать, разuding that Seungke to aby 먹을 cabe extent. Cor�장,wort Decursionist, Schulz Hoyland, Workstage, and August 1825. She אםke is an integral part of one thing that you rely on local faculty and staff. Locités libro-kartside, Specialediol,уд そして登 sanitions. And while our students remember permitting and education in the community program are putting into the need of their program. for the community partners, to know about them, to participate in them, to be co-authors, and to have these publications returned to them so that they can be translated if appropriate for the community members. I think that's all I have time for. Thank you very much. Okay, so now we, I think we're doing, we're perfectly on time, which is amazing. So we can have some, 10 minutes for questions. I'm just trying to get my speaker view back on. Great. So has anyone got any questions for anyone? You can raise your hand for quick questions in the chat. Excellent. So I see quite a lot of comments in the chat box, but I think there, I haven't been able to follow those, doing all the best. from the previous discussion. So does anyone have any questions for the recent speakers of the Flash Talks? Lucas. Hello everyone. My name is Lucas Pavara, and I'm a researcher combining ethnobotanical and nutritional approaches. And with the Indigenous Partnership, and Mr. Frank Roy, who is present, we are working on indigenous food systems in Indonesia, Northeast India, and also a bit in Ethiopia, and Mexico, Yucatan. And I would like to mention the presentation of Dr. Tiziana Oluyan, which was, I think this livelihood aspect is becoming more and more important. And as we can see, many indigenous cultures and also the food systems are under pressure and changing from the intensification, livelihood needs, and also cash crops coming. So I think the livelihood aspect is really something that should be strengthened. But what we found is quite a challenge is how do we balance the trade-off between livelihood and commercialization, and also own consumption. For example, in Indonesia or Northeast India, our studies are showing that farmers are producing nutritious food groups, such as eggs or fruits, but then they rather, you know, sell them because of the income opportunities, which a little bit compromise the diets and the diversity in the end. So, you know, how do we balance this trade-off between livelihood and own consumption? So that would be my question. And yeah, thank you. Yeah, thank you, Lucas, for your very interesting question. It's actually a key question. And I think, you know, it's very important in terms of development, how to carry out a sustainable development. As you are mentioning, the problem is that you can support livelihood, you can help commercializing one species, but how can we stop by, somehow, how can bring the benefit into the community. It's key and actually it needs to be involved into the value chain of that product. And of course, again, this needs to be multidisciplinary and also involve different stakeholders. It's important to have even some, like at the country level, some legislation that in a way that is incorporating into the legal framework of the country, because otherwise you need to protect this product. And actually more in the value chain, you have a middle dealer, and more likely, less likely you're going to benefit the local community. So it's really a big problem. And I think it's something that we always being aware through our work and through our research. And for this, we have been really working directly with the local community and also with the NGO, because NGO somehow they are the voice in general of the local community, and they really can help us in bringing the commercialization from the community to the national, regional level, and national level, and potentially at the international level. So this is definitely a key step in order to support livelihood that they need to be addressed. And this, again, you need to be interdisciplinary and assigned at the same time to have a multi-participatory approach, not only at the research level, but also by linking up with the local government and national government at the same time. Thank you. Brilliant. Thanks. Oh, so I've got a couple of questions here. Paul's in the chat first, and then on to Roger. So how widespread is the pattern of farmers selling production to the detriment of their nutrition? Sandeep, do you have any comments on that? I think the women farmers we spoke to are actually very keen on the nutritional aspects of the foods they were seeking to revive. They were kind of very aware that it was particularly important to know, to grow known foods, and that there was no benefit in consuming foods from the outside, as they put it, which they did not know. So this issue of knowledge of foods was particularly important. They were able to tell us in detail in a considerable way the nutritional properties of foods like the various millets, which they were growing, and the various properties of the seeds, they were saving and exchanging as well. That's brilliant. Thanks. I remember something from some of my interviews as well, that just things like the qualities of taste could change when certain crops grown for food are grown in different qualities of soils. And it's that very sort of precise local knowledge. And so sometimes you could have the same crop being grown in some different soils for purposes of selling that crop or for using it for animal fodder. And the same crop and the same landrace being grown in a different patch of better quality soils when it was being used to eat at home. So that sort of knowledge is being lost locally as well. So Roger, you had a question as well. I've been surprised. This conference is sort of entitled Indigenous Food Systems. There's been extraordinary little discussion of cookery itself and then, you know, actual ways that people think about preparing different foods. Now in Itanagar, in the capital of Arunachal Pradesh, one of the fascinating things are the tribal food restaurants. That's what they call themselves. There are many different ethnic groups in 52 in Arunachal Pradesh. Many have their own quite specific cuisines and they have a restaurant system which has grown up to serve people who want to eat those particular foods. And there is, you know, this sort of thing also happens a bit in Nigeria and quite a lot in Indonesia, where in Indonesia, any big city has restaurants which serve people from different islands in Indonesia. I feel these are grossly understudied. In other words, these are some of the institutions, these commercial restaurants, which are acting to propagate Indigenous food systems. In other words, they're the people who make money from actually selling people the food they really like to eat. And to my knowledge, I've seen very little or no study of any sort of these these restaurant systems and how they act to promote Indigenous foods. So, has anyone else got any comments on that? Raj? Yeah, I was going to say thank you, Roger. That's a very good point. I've, I think recipes and dishes and cookery is extremely important. We've had students looking at the reintroduction of wild plants into these kinds of restaurant cuisines in Malaysia, for instance, in Singapore. And because of COVID-19 here in London, in Malaysia restaurants, and looking also that these places are also venues to revitalize traditional crops and traditional plants in cooking, as also a way to kind of present that traditional food tradition. Yeah, and Philippe, I also wanted to add on that. Yeah, I think it's extremely important to record a recipe and is somehow a way to conserve the way in the same way you conserve the recipe or conserving the traditional, you are conserving the species as well. And I wanted to mention that we have recently started a project on the Mediterranean diet in Lebanon and Jordan. And we identify some species that actually you can find in the, in the Lebanese restaurant in Lando, you know, they really consider delicacy at the country level and really, really appreciate them. So the, what we are doing is really trying to bring these other species, some are harvested from the wild, some are cultivating. And we're also looking into the nutritional content of the species, looking at the micronutrients in order to, to look at the health benefits. And at the same time, but looking at the health benefits, you can, this information can help to promote the, uh, these species that are minor in the cuisine somehow, or what we know outside, but they're still very important at the local level. That's brilliant. Julian, did you have your hand up before? Julian Perryman- One of the things is that, um, yes, I agree with Rod, Roger, Blench and Raj. And the thing is that another dimension I just forgot to mention is that, um, you know, we've been talking about plant and seed collections and all these sort of things. But also one of the things that I do in order to be able to inform and like identify fruits from the archeological record is that I have a food library. not just of the recipes but actually pieces of the food because you know you can have the recipes you can have all these things but if you don't know how does the product really look and that also helps you inform and understanding how does these types of like the the way that the method conditions the type of behavior that the remain will have so that's another thing that you can actually be doing you have been you know I know that every time you go to the field work you are like oh here eat this if that and then you can just try and build up also a food reference collection which would be it's it's one of the important aspects I think it's oh I've got one quick comment so like as archaeobotanists were always interested in those stages of processing and I think one thing we're looking at changes in the last 50 years sort of research Sandeep's been doing with looking at grinding stones and moving to modern methods and the same in Sudan is that sometimes the change in cooking practices or use of crops is is linked to these changing material cultures and so when when interest in our our project is looking from farm through to plate to try and capture all those interconnected processes so Alex you had you had a question um yeah so I hi I'm Alex I'm at the UCL Institute of Archaeology and Archaeobotanist I also intern for Q I grew up on coastal Miwok lands in Northern California I'm in communication a lot with a lot of native tribes in California through different dialogue groups what Chumash Serrano Washu Miwok and something that we talk a lot about is reconnecting with traditional recipes and how do we support indigenous groups who have been forced out of practicing traditional food systems and the increased rise in this I don't I don't really hear a lot of discussions with traditional Native Americans in North America a lot of people are in urban settings or on reservations but there is an increased interest with the rise of indigenous peoples day which was this past Monday as a replacement for Columbus day with a desire to reintegrate traditional food systems even though the the origins of a lot of American food systems are actually like in the narrative like Thanksgiving how do we support communities of people who are have had broken indigenous condition traditions because a lot of my friends who are Miwok or Ohoni want to practice these recipes they want to reintegrate a corn flour into the dialogue they want to integrate traditional like you know fishing practices but they don't have any resources to do that and so but there is an increased commercial interest in it like the Sioux cookbook has picked up and has won a national award and so there is like an increasing fascination with Native American cuisines but there's next to no support so I don't know I don't know I just wanted to bring this into the dialogue and I wanted to kind of introduce a North American perspective just because they're often not included in the dialogue and invested in international justice and so it is necessary No one is Genau for instanceة for the coast and so if I think the five minimize moving tax is the impact of the towns of the Middle East but then what you know that would have to bring the two states comment more우�anku � idea what they 바 Sono really saiderte right now anything about consulting and限ri and Parra that would put out a lot of ideas philosophies in Cor仔 in order to destroy Can I also mention that way back in the end of the 19th century, the good old Smithsonian used to produce wonderful books about indigenous cookery systems in North America, books which are long out of print, but in my view, you know, people should have a look at these because they documented food and cookery systems at a time when they were pretty well intact. I mean, I collected a few of these myself, but, you know, it seems to be a resource. But how are these being distributed to communities? Because my friends I talk to don't know these exist, slash they're often really hesitant to engage with this literature because it was often written by colonists. And so there's an apprehension to engage. Is there access to resources that have been written by indigenous scholars? Because that's the biggest comment I get from people I talk to is how do I access modern day resources written by indigenous scholars? written by indigenous ecologists or people who have a comprehensive understanding. And it's not through a colonial narrative because I know people who know the Smithsonian stuff, but they don't want to read it because it's automatically comes from a perspective that doesn't have a full appreciation. That's this is just I'm just regurgitating news. I've been told to spread from my communities. So, yeah. Well, I think that's really unfair. I've read this stuff and these were at least you need to look at them and read them and see are they realistic and so on. I mean, you know, of course, maybe there is some colonial perspective, but give them a chance. Don't just throw them out of the pram automatically. I mean, it's something that we have to deal with with a lot of archival material from from these periods and that historical research methods take take those sorts of biases into consideration. So you could try and abstract information, but in the context of those materials that Sandy could be able to better comment on whether I've got that sort of correctly phrased. Well, yes, yes, if if you're looking for kind of indigenous or subaltern voices within within the within the archive, especially the colonial archive, you're likely to to look in vain. But nonetheless, within that they are. Even the colonial archive required. Reliance on native and indigenous informants. So kind of a way of reading the archives. Reliance on native and. Reliance on native and indigenous, which has. Reliance on native, who's. Reliance on native, as has been called against the grain will kind of give you some perspective from the people who provided the colonialists with the information. So it's kind of fine reading the archives and being alive to kind of the silences, the dissonances, the information that is coming to. The colonial author. um and which is sometimes actually acknowledged so yes you would not get kind of a clear um a clear outline of views directly by indigenous or subaltern groups but there is a way of making sense of of the archives they're not completely i would say useless and maybe that's the role of modern i'm afraid we're gonna have to stop now i'm really sorry but please do continue sorry i'm afraid we're going to have to stop now because we've run out of time um we we scheduled a break from 12 30 to quarter to to one which is only 15 minutes and i think people will need some lunch before the next session it's been really fascinating and i'm really glad roger brought up the issue of food because um it's such a critical issue and i've really enjoyed all the presentations and all the discussions so thank you really very much philip and everybody and uh please come back in in 15 minutes right welcome back everyone um i hope you managed to get some some lunch so um we're now going to have a panel on um decolonizing and indigenous research methods um i just um want to thank you all for your presentations earlier they were so interesting um i think um just a brief comment while we wait for people to come back the issue of intellectual property rights that came up um i think what harriet kuhnlein said in her video about collective free prior informed consent is really really critical for ensuring that communities know fully the risks of commercialization um before they agree to publish or to disseminate um their knowledge and there's also the option of them not publishing and then building a knowledge base within communities and that's something we'll hear about in this session um i also was uh really enjoyed listening about oral histories and i think they have huge potential at the moment because um you know the loss of um traditional knowledge that's going on is often just the elders who have the knowledge and so oral histories are really important to bring back and revitalize biocultural heritage in in the areas we're working you know to try and establish a lot of these uh in the areas we're working you know to try and build a lot of communities and i think archaeobotany um you know might also help on that if it can help with the recent past um which is kind of more relevant and immediate to communities and might still have um remnants in the memories of the elders the session now is um is is is a panel of indigenous people on a topic which i think is really important and as a researcher i think that the best way to help indigenous peoples is to ensure research is led by them that it empowers indigenous peoples and that address it addresses their needs and priorities um and this type of research can have a lot more impact in terms of development and environment impact than externally led research and also there are ethical issues i think um with this externally led research um you know you're asking indigenous peoples to contribute to a process which generally doesn't give them much benefit in return so in my view that's unethical um so i think this issue of decolonizing um research methods is really really important and um i would like to introduce um uh professor baguela chilisa i hope you're here with us so um she is a professor at the university of botswana and her work has focused on on culturally and contextually responsive research and evaluation and she's written a brilliant book on indigenous research methodologies so welcome and thank you so much baguela you have 10 minutes oh 10 okay thank you thank you so much thank you for having me um um this has been a wonderful uh time for me i've had a lot of interesting things from all the presenters and now it's in this 10 minutes i'm going to share with you uh uh what i have so my focus is going to be on uh indigenous research methodologies and what they are and their benefit to uh doing research on indigenous indigenous food so indigenous research methodologies is about the right of those whose voices have been silenced by western knowledge to know to talk and to be heard indigenous people is about food while for example in academics may use historical data as you have heard over over the last two days indigenous people can talk and be heard by using for example folklore stories taboos about food oral traditions about food names of food names of food songs about food that is a way to give the indigenous people voice of course the scientists can always do archival data i mean archaeological data and do all the sciences but indigenous people also have the right to know and they know and they know through those methods it is about indigenous people's right to know to produce knowledge and own knowledge in bozana when we fry potatoes we call them french fries and i think the world over they are called french fries even when they are fried in the u.s that talks about an indigenous french recipe indigenous research methodologies is about bringing indigenous knowledge to the global market bringing those indigenous recipes to the global market so that they can compete with other recipes indigenous countries it has it is about the right to place indigenous ways of knowing and values at equal footing with other knowledge systems indigenous methods when we talk indigenous research methodologies we are therefore talking about mixed methods where mixed methods is not only about combining quantitative and qualitative data but it is also about combining indigenous knowledge indigenous methods with other conventional methods indigenous knowledge so that when we talk of indigenous research methodologies we're talking about collaborative research we are talking about multiple methods that recognize indigenous methods indigenous knowledge is a indigenous research methodologies is about indigenous knowledge indigenous people to prioritize the research agenda and participate in what is recess and to be recognized as core knowledge producers when you talk about prioritizing we are talking about the relevant research indigenous research of course western researchers have the luxury just to research for curiosity's sake we indigenous people don't have that we need research that can benefit us and it is uh it is us who can prioritize what is relevant indigenous research is about the resistance indigenous research and to stereotypes and deficit theorizing perpetuated by western knowledge western research colonial research the archives archived knowledge that continue to perpetuate stereotypes i can understand when indigenous people say that is not only for eating but it is also for spirituality it is also for well-being it is also for connecting people with the environment indigenous research methodologies when they refuse to say no not those you have to understand that they're probably talking from a point of the world views a point of their own world views so indigenous research methodologies is not about replacing conventional methods with indigenous indigenous research methodologies it is about a coalition of knowledge systems a coalition that recognizes other knowledge systems on equal footing indigenous people it is about decolonizing the minds of them indigenous people you know indigenous people they have been brainwashed to think that their foods are inferior and they have been the ones that are inferior it is therefore about indigenous people appreciating their own heritage where for example they recognize indigenous recipes indigenous foods as food that can compete in the global market indigenous research methodologies indigenous research methodologies is about carrying out research informed by indigenous world views ways of perceiving reality and value systems those marginalized by western knowledge for example can begin by valuing the indigenous food conducting community research those and that's the spiritual healing of the foods and that's the spiritual healing of the foods i i happen to listen to a presentation by one of the students who are who was uh talking about food security in part of the country and one of the things that came out was that there were some indigenous foods that could hand that could stand the vagaries of the climate much much better than those uh uh uh uh crops that have been borrowed from the west however uh the people were not willing to grow indigenous crops because they've been brainwashed to think that eating rice is better than eating local food and research on indigenous foods that in that use that use an indigenous perspective indigenous methodologies as i said before it appreciates the value of food not only for quenching hunger but also for spirituality purposes for connection with the land an indigenous research world view recognizes spirituality that is not talked about in western research and for you therefore it will be appropriate to research on indigenous food using an indigenous world view that goes beyond western uh ways of perceiving reality to indigenous ways of seeing reality spirituality also as reality to say that uh uh research has to respect uh indigenous values is to talk about the world eight eight hours that is the art of relationality this is ethic ethics the ethics of research includes relationality which is doing research that is long lasting your you build relationships with the people not helicopter research where you where you get in and get out as quickly as possible it's about respect that is respecting the values of the people respecting their voices giving them a chance to participate it's about reciprocity what is it what is this research giving back this documentation and databases what are they giving back to the communities is it okay to archive those in the form of documents knowledge that that has that that the researcher got from the the communities while the communities are hungry researchers can build their names with the research this and that the research is it who am i for as a researcher you always come up with a point of view you come into the research with a world view whose world view are you using are you looking at the researcher as somebody who doesn't know who you are helping because you can get funding from some sponsor elsewhere or are you are you are you getting funds so that you can work with the researchers not for creosice not to do research for curiosity but to do research that is relevant for us there is an urgent need for research that addresses our problems not research for curiosity rise of the people to prioritize their research agenda when you now say you are coming up with this and that is that your priority as a researcher or is that the priority of the people reverence people are indigenous people are very spiritual do you respect their spirituality responsiveness as you do research are you able to to respond to the immediate needs to the changes as you go along and you do the research or do you use book research where you say according to uh uh this author this is how it has to be done therefore i can't change i can't do that i can't do that reflexivity as you do research do you reflect upon yourself and say what uh what what what are the kind of stereotypes and prejudices that i bring into this community do you reflect and lastly decolonization the ethics is ethics when it also decolonizes research and to decolonize research is to allow other people to speak from their own point of view their own world views thank you very much thank you so much uh professor chilisa that was um brilliant um those eight r's i think are really useful principles for all research um does anybody have any questions because we have just a couple of minutes and then we'll move on to the next one i can't see any questions um i think we're all absorbing just a quick thing i think um you know she hit the nail uh on the there needs to be a reverence to the knowledge that it's been produced because at times um you know this is something that also i i kind of like talk about that there's food that it's of nutritional value that is good for you but there's like good for your well-being and that's something important that at times get get doesn't come through the research um and especially with at least i work in the caribbean and the indigenous communities there are not recognized so and there's all these ideas of they were all exterminated during the colonial times so their practices and spiritualities that are still active and also by recognizing them from a research point of view we're also um giving them the agency and the recognition that they deserve outside of their own circles um thank you so much i have one question i am missing one of the r's could we have a list okay um is relationality respect reciprocity responsibility rights reverence responsiveness reflexivity and decolonization один of things and d Favorite countries can't do well um for an l participate and more fan of humans Aww let me say thank you. Thank you so much i think you know you remind us that we all have our own world view researchers they see what what they see through their own lens they don't document the spirituality because it's not part of their own culture so we need to leave our culture behind and step into and see things and be guided by your world view so that we can do the research properly but anyway thank you so much and we'll have hopefully a bit more time for discussion later but that was wonderful I'd like now to pass on to so Florence Daggy Tan she's from the Philippines and briefly introduce she is a Meo Kyok Daggy Tan sorry Florence Meo Kyok Daggy Tan belongs to the Kan Kanai is one of the seven ethnolinguistic groups known as the Igorots in the Cordillera of the northern Philippines and she's going to talk about indigenous methods for research on agri-food systems in the Philippines she's also working at Teb Teba good evening everyone it's it's I think eight o'clock in our in our area so I say good evening or good noon good afternoon I'm happy to be here and I thank I thank also the opportunity for me to speak on our experience I'm speaking as an indigenous person who has also gone to the academic world but my my involvement in the research in the research for appropriate research methodologies comes from a being part of a of a people's movement first from the advocates of the organic agriculture sustainable farming ecological agriculture agroecology things like that and then second as an advocate for the promotion of indigenous people's rights for for for its fulfillment and respect so from the very start of my work just upon my college days because that was so much activism in the Philippines that was the time of martial law we were fortunate enough to be given uh the correct orientation of working for the people and with the people so uh so we were taught that our people indigenous peoples in the cordillera or indigenous peoples uh of the world create and produce knowledge from their day-to-day life as they relate with their nature and the land they monitor changes events places they closely observe what is in their surroundings and discover new ways of doing things whatever they discover they share to whoever is interested in the community like a better way of storing the seeds the part of the forest where such trees can be found and others this knowledge are shared in various ways in different venues and these are stored in stories epics songs in the memories of our people but they are shared very orally and this we have this in in at present today so we see that people have been creating knowledge and producing knowledge yet when we go to the communities and invite some groups to do a research or because we were also told that to to work in the community you have to start where the people are so we have to do the research but if we invite some groups to do that research with us then they will say oh if it's research it's not for us it's for the school people those who come from the academic or those who come from the academic or those who went to the universities so we see a manifestation of the colonized research in our lands also uh even at this time so the first challenge that we need to transcend is to reiterate that people themselves are doing their own research and creation of knowledge in their day-to-day life and so we have to do that in this event uh in this event i would like to share some of the effective indigenous research methods that we have that we that we do to especially in doing research in agri-food systems and when i'm when i was writing this it seems they are very much uh i think all of you knows this it's just a matter of saying it so one is the mapping or walking through our territory which is the essence which is the sense of place and identity for us so in the mapping some of the many things that we can draw or generate from the mapping exercise or walking through our territories is are the diversity of the food crops the different kinds of food crops in the cultivated area we we can list as many as 40 kinds with each kinds of different varieties so you see hundreds of varieties of food crops in our cultivated crops but we can also see the location of the naturally occurring wild plants and animals that are part of uh of the people's diet how the whole territory contributes to the community's diet we can also locate the abode of the unseen because these are very important to us they have to have a share of the food but when you look deeper into it it has so much a lot to do with the conservation of the species or the regeneration of species so you can also see the species of species like one one belief is that if there is one bamboo shoot you should not be taking it because it's for the spirits or it's for the unseen and if you if you look at that in the scientific language then you will say that's for the regeneration so that something will come out again and reproduce itself and in the sacred sites where are also the abode of our spirits uh you cannot go and hunt there so it's a sanctuary for the science also for us it's abode of the unseen who are our companions in our territory but i think for scientists it's the sanctuary of fauna and flora so they appreciate it very much but they will say we are superstitious if we say we do not go there because it's the abode of the spirit and in the mapping we did some upgrading so we also build their capacity to use the gps and also to build the 3d map so that then they can always come back to their map and talk about the things that we'd like to talk the second methodology is the use of traditional calendar it shows the availability of the food at what time of the year the time to plant and the time to harvest the time not to disturb the wild animals in the forest the fishes in the rice land the fishes in the rivers because this is the time for them to mate and reproduce again the indicators of changes in the weather the third methodology is storytelling it can show certain food how certain food are valued and why it can show changes in the consumption and production pattern of our people how the wilds are protected and how seeds are conserved and how seeds are exchanged in the water it can show it can show also why we do certain rituals especially in our rice land our every step of our every stage of the production cycle of the rice land we do rituals so then our elders will explain why we have to do those rituals and then the compare and contrast method the other is uh how community how community elders and leaders are more proactive in the past than in the present because of the assimilation that is ongoing to us and how they were able to cope with food scarcity and famine the other is uh but now we rely on the government sometimes we we forget that we have our own uh ways of our our own self-reliance the other is the the other method is the learning by doing when we do innovations in in our farming system like production of organic farm inputs and if this is the these are the times that we call sometimes we call on scientists to help us here like uh soil testing of uh of soil test uh if we do a production of we use our resources to produce fertilizers and we also use uh modern technology and uh to face and decomposition things like that so we call on the scientists to help us with the laboratory work of if our soils are improving if the insects are more diverse insect population and then we also test the traditional indicators like for alkaline soil they say that sour and for acidic they say it's they taste it as bitter so we can test that in the laboratory it's not validation but i think it's in also in reaching and then that you one of the actual things too is the cooking of traditional crops the food of the past and the present and the health of the children and then we will be able to see the results results results and outcomes comes even as early as uh it depends on what you are researching or studying but but the most the most essential part is the collective analysis it's one of the most essential process which may lead to foul policy formulation like comparing and contrasting the food of the past and the present and the health of the children and then they will say oh let's ban the junk food but it will also have to have a commitment from the women to retrieve the traditional food that they used to have as a snacks things like that uh yeah and then it can also lead to action like reviving the our backyard gardens things like that for those are the things that we do and then for recommendation yeah of course full and effect if if it's an outsider who is coming to our communities the full and effective participation of the community should be first ensured and then yeah uh also indigenous peoples have also come to do their community research and they should be supported and to also build our capacities and uh more important is to i uh uh i think more important is that research should be an educational process for the facilitator and the communities and that the output of research like the knowledge produced should be first should first benefit the community for me also i still find it uh an internal conflict on publishing yeah because sometimes uh funders would like publishing but for me it will not matter if you publish or not but it matters very much that what has the community learned and what actual what awareness has been created and what actions have been done because of that research process and of course uh i know also that we uh indigenous while we have this such yeah profound wisdom things like that but we also have to work with other collaborators thank you very much oh thank you so much florence that was really great and um it was really interesting to learn about your methods um about the mapping and so on storytelling um we have um a little bit of time if anybody would like to ask a question or make a comment um this is sanjukta ghosh from the so as south asia institute i'm a historian and researcher on agricultural knowledge um my question is really related to the methods in indigenous knowledge that we just heard and i was curious to know you know who guards these agricultural calendars that you were talking about is it still with the elders or is it uh also something that the young and the women are involved in um and and how is you know the agricultural calendar is again very based on a very long-term understanding of how seasons work and how crops and animals behave so um um i'm just curious how you're building in this whole notion of climate change with a more traditional agricultural calendar that is in place so are these things taken into account when you're changing practices or when you're creating new calendars uh that's just something i had in mind yeah yeah thanks very thank you for the question uh at present actually in in the areas that i have gone uh climate change is actually uh in it does not fit in their calendar so it's uh for them also for the for our elders there's also uh uh because when they follow the rice cycle they have indicators like the coming of certain birds the flowering of certain crops and they cannot uh many times they cannot see it anymore and so and then also the coming of varieties that those are all those are also taken into consideration but uh so so they say how do how do we deal how do they deal with that but uh from from the stories that i heard it says they more and more they do not rely on the the indicators on the changing season um but more and more they rely on dreams so uh but but then also if uh because that calendar also synchronizes the activities right and it has a lot of to do of labor allocation pest control management so our elders are actually grappling with this change erratic changes in weather and season yeah so that's that's one of the challenges that we need also to have collaborative work with scientists great thank you so much is there any other question for florence or comment or other sharing from others yeah i mean i have to say florence and both and baghele it so much of what you said resonated with what i know um from indigenous research methods in in the andes um in the potato park and maize park and there's there's a lot of similarity um because i didn't know about you you know the the ones florence and the philippines and but the the mapping by walking through the landscape through the territory and um and storytelling um and and many of the principles that both of you talked about i seem to be quite universal in terms of you know being important for indigenous communities being useful something that's useful directly to you um was emphasized by both of you um right so um i don't know if anybody else wants to make any comment feel free to jump in and just share your thoughts or reactions but that also question when i was talking and now i think also the elders are triangulating like their dreams their the the changes the indicators of seasons and then where the sun strikes in the morning yeah because these are the the things that lead them to declare this is the we start the season of planting thank you so much florence it was really brilliant okay well in that case um we should probably jump to um alejandro's presentation um alejandro are you with us i think i just saw you good morning good morning so to introduce alejandro um he is the person who did all the translation for the potato park session um from quechua to english he's um director of programs at the swift foundation and he's a board member of association andes and an indigenous quechua leader an advisor to the potato park and coordinator of inmip the international network of mountain indigenous peoples and he's going to talk about the decolonizing methodologies that the ngo andes has developed with the potato park and the maize park communities uh please go ahead alejandro thank you christina and good morning everyone from my side it's um it's a pleasure and honor to participate in this panel um with so distinguished uh practitioners and activists and intellectuals all indigenous um so my greetings um i wanted to share a few slides because um for us visuals dreaming um imagining envisioning um imagining envisioning captures this very intimate um relationship that we have with time with a space and it encapsulates those dreams that we continue to to have and the picture you see is well known as um macho picture but it epitomizes what individual research can do this is the an expression of a holistic approach to how ontologies and epistemologies come to do what we call sumachkausai of buen vivir holistic living but your picture is a very um intricate uh or shows a very intricate relationship between you know um water management so high knowledge of hydraulics engineering architecture mechanics physics you know um but above all it shows this relationship with uh deep respect to the environment and i think in a current crisis and all these pressing socio-economical political and ecological challenges that we are uh facing this type of knowledge um um um it has become very important in terms of uh how we can weave uh new tomorrows uh so in our part of the world uh we are a product of um like you see much much picture is the product of indigenous scholars um looking for uh reaching this goal of buen vivir uh this embodies uh spirituality a relationship to the natural world uh which is the cornerstone of this conceptions of knowledge and therefore the purpose of research is established there and expressing principles and values um we see in our past um how these ontological and epistemic principles are embedded um on how our ancestors have passed on knowledge to us and our responsibility to keep evolving to keep using this knowledge and evolving to uh respond to challenges of here the future key principles here are relationality indigenous result research methodologies is about accountability with the rest of our uh relations so it is not just about humans it is reciprocity that reflects with the relationship that we have among all the living elements that um or living beings including rocks or air or water and that um live within um this uh universe of us uh universe of us and uh also reciprocity we call it aini it's important in terms of research because it questions this positivistic colonial world view that research is neutral that we have to only provide trying for consent uh as a manner of establishing consensual relationship when the relationship is not between humans only um finally balance which is key to sustainability and how we seek to uh create um a balanced world within the natural and the human world and the human world within this um as i said um we have a a taxonomy that characterize this where we have three communities three i use and our goal is when be beer in terms of research methods um and learning approaches um i just want to um highlight three of them um which are key to all the research activities we do we do yachai which means learning with the mind yang kai which means doing and learning with your hands and munai which means learning and doing with the heart any type of action has to be uh uh carried out or developed within those three tools of learning and action now in terms of decolonizing methods that we apply participation based in this reciprocal relationship between people and the environment development is key to it with the leadership of elders where the knowledge transmission and the participation of youth is key to it within this we uh continue to um create tools that go beyond or challenges this colonial view that works in digital research methods and tools within the hermet borders or convention conventional qualitative research we are supposed uh according to that view uh only able to use um storytelling uh community mapping uh legends oral tools that are key to one part of the research but in our case in our case we also use uh tools that provide the metrics uh to create um data which after can be uh use uh to measure and provide numerical um and results that creates uh uh a better approaches to solving local problems uh here you have a known drawing of an in-command uh uh um using the key pool which in this side of the picture we have translated into a molecular key pool which is the same approach the same format but it reflects what is um what is um within a molecular key pool which in this side of the picture we have a different types of values uh which we call you pana continues to be used by women to rank and create give numerical value to different um uses of medicinal plants or other crops this also is applied in uh assessing climate change for for instance here where we create um hubs every hundred meters up in the mountain to assess population dynamics how uh pests or crops are moving up because of climate change this provides again using the same type of uh metals and tools numerical um results that then we can use to create solutions uh this has allowed us uh to um to harbor in the potato as in the case of the potato park a large number one of the largest in the world of uh potato collection keep those potatoes continue to do uh research in terms of uh participatory plant breeding uh uh uh uh the um collection of uh uh uh uh varieties that are in the angels of disappearing and each multiplication and transfer to other communities so the focus of this as was the focus in the inka time continue to be how do we how do we create solutions through food also we apply to policy uh no matter how um supposedly complicated it is um this is an example of how we uh uh come into conclusions on an evaluation on uh crispar uh this new technology that's floating many uh research institutions of the world and being again the you know the silver bullet that's going up uh create all these changes when we believe that um what we have within us uh can be the doors to the future so to finish um uh i know i have like i'm passing my time um this type of research can be perhaps better um uh uh beyond itself is decolonizing um uh focus also it can be um conceptualized as some type of indigenous mixed method strategy that combines qualitative and quantitative research practices and responds to this the main objective of the main objective of sumach causai which is the aspiration of our communities in this um as we see in the case of the kipu or a upana we use the appropriate theoretical frameworks to transform those old tools into new ways of keep learning and keep creating new knowledge so um while our research strategy and methods are framed within a colonial biocultural history i think that the principles and values that are inherent to this practice uh creates also the possibility of new tomorrows and a decolonized uh research practice thank you you thank you so much alejandro that was fascinating it's um it's wonderful to hear about the how your research combines a qualitative and quantitative but all within the use of indigenous principles and with worldviews and for the goal of sumac causai which is holistic well-being or buen vivir. I don't know if anybody would like to ask a question. I realise we have one for the previous of Florence as well we can go back to in a minute. But for Alejandro, does anyone have any questions or comments? I will then ask one if that's okay. The diagram you showed at the beginning, Alejandro, with the principles that you were talking about, maybe you could explain a little bit where that diagram, what it is and where it's from, because I think that's fascinating to learn about it for others who don't know. Which one, Cristina? The Santa Cruz Pachacuti. So, this is the diagram that was, that captured what was expressed as an art, a holistic art expression in the most sacred temple of Cusco, the Coricancha, the Golden Temple. And this conceptual graphic, this drawing came from an Indian chronic who was able to translate it into this conceptual graphic in the mid 1500s after, you know, your, I mean, the Europeans arrived in Cusco. And it basically captures our, you know, space, our ontology, our universe, where we conceptualize three communities that interact, reciprocate, and try to work together towards achieving summa caucil. And those communities are the human community or the runa, which includes everything that nurtures human and humans nurture and reciprocity. So, domesticated crops, animals, water, anything that lives around humans is considered runa. The other realm is the salcha, or the wild. So, anything that has its own world, like a wild biodiversity, wild water, wild wind, whatever, humans don't have control, it has its own community. And the third one, which is the critical one, is the auki, which reflects our connection with the sacred. That's where our ancestors and the sacred principles of reciprocity, which are embedded. So, these three communities have to work together, have and the way of communicating and seeking balances through the sacred principle of reciprocity, or aini. And once that balance is achieved, we have reached summa caucil. So, Could you show it to us briefly, so people know which one you're talking about, please? I was referring to this, to this, where you have this old drawing of Santa Cruz Pachacuti. And, you know, if you see the middle star, that's the Southern Cross, which in most indigenous traditions, is a sacred symbol, because it connects the sacred with the human world. It connects the, you know, we call it Chakana. It's like a bridge. It bridge all types of epistemologies and, you know, generations and, you know, different types of conceiving the world. So, it's the key of diversity. And with that, we have the Aukiaiyu, which is the sacred, the Salha Aiyu, which is the wild, and the runa Aiyu, the human realm. And when there is reciprocity, as I said, we achieve summa caucil. So, you know, this paradigm, this concept of summa caucil, of course, go beyond this idea of sustainability, where, you know, the economical interest, or its view upon an architecture that keeps pushing this capitalist world view of Western, the Western world to the infinite, how we keep destroying nature without destroying. That's what sustainability means, in terms of, I think, Western mind. So, we kind of challenge that with this paradigm, that is, in terms of the world, where the ethical aspects of research, which are embedded in the spiritual values of indigenous peoples, are strongly reflected in the Aukiaiyu. Thank you. Well, thanks a lot for explaining that. So, the old diagram from this Inca chronicler in the 1500s now guides their research, which is led by community researchers from each community in the Potato Park. And it's very much about traditional knowledge, indigenous knowledge transmission, transmitting the values and transmitting the knowledge between elders and youth through the research process, as Alejandro mentioned at the beginning. So, it's a way of, you know, really revitalizing these cultural values and biocultural heritage, using these ancient principles from the Incas, which I think is a really nice example, which I haven't seen others do, but I would love to find similar, you know, graphics and principles and concepts for other indigenous peoples. I think it would really help in revitalizing biocultural heritage. Does anybody, would anybody like to share any reflections with Alejandro? If not, we can go back to Florence's question. Okay, so, okay. I mean, if people want to continue, you know, want to comment on your presentation, anybody want to, don't be shy. Okay, we can always come back to Alejandro and to Baghele in the conversation. But for now, I'm going to look at this question for Florence. Um, uh, Penilla, would you like to say your question? Are you still with us? Okay, I'll read it out. Uh, thank you Florence for the rich presentation. When you refer to the elders' triangulation, I also see we can add the very long timeline they have to build their experiences on. They have observed and interacting with their landscape for so long and with so many perspectives. So it can never be com compensated with other methods from science, which is in the best case study one, one fact, facto in long time series, but many times represents a snapshot in one dimension. Okay, so it's a comment. And Penilla, would you please, um, explain that if you're still with us? Because I didn't fully understand it. But I think Penilla is trying to say that, uh, because I mentioned that, uh, in the age of, uh, yeah, on the triangulation, I will start first with that. Because in the, in, in our, when we do our research, we found out that the, when they declare the season to, one season to start, they make use of, uh, when the, when they're in the, some would, there are places where at the, at the first break of the, of the sunrise, the sun strikes somewhere. And another is the, the, the indicators in the change in weather around the surroundings. And another is their dream. So that now we only hear that they more rely on dreams because, uh, changes are happening and some of the indicators have disappeared. And, and also that, uh, of course, yeah, something like that. But what I, what I understood from Penilla is that, uh, because I mentioned that with the age of, with this change in climate and erratic weather condition, we may need also support to hasten the knowledge development on how we are going to appropriate our, our calendar in the changing times. And so I think Penilla is saying that we may not be needing other knowledge system because our elders are there. That's what I got from her comment. Right. Okay. Thank you very much. Um, I wonder if, um, something I, I thought might be really relevant to others is to understand a bit better, um, more specifically your methods of research, Alejandro. So the capacity building workshop, workshops for the, um, indigenous research experts. And then the, the app that you use for them to collect the data. And that goes straight to a database. And you can explain all this much better, but we've been talking a little bit about documenting knowledge and databases how to build a knowledge base and communities. And maybe you could explain your methodology on that aspect, please. Yeah. Me? I think. How to, um, integrate metrics and make, uh, measurements that reflect better or more accurate. How, um, you know, uh, we conceptualize the, uh, our own universe in terms of its relationality. Uh, everything is connected to everything. So you can not do research, um, which is, um, you know, books and some type of specialty. Um, and how the results of, um, you know, this type of, um, holistic approach or integrative approach, where you have mixed methods working all the time, uh, can be captured and is taught. So, um, we had, uh, develop a process by which, uh, we tried in the first instance to combine the collection methods in terms of the qualitative and quantitative approaches, um, without making, uh, these type of distinctions, but rather looking the needs of particular phenomena that we may be. We may be interested in learning or, uh, solving. Once we have, uh, the tools that are, uh, uh, decided to, uh, gather information. Then, um, we have created, uh, ways, visual ways of, um, capturing that type of information, which includes the use. Uh, uh, now of an application that we have developed in house that takes advantage of, uh, the visuals that, um, a, um, um, you know, um, um, um, a phone, uh, or a tablet these days may offer. Like video, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, GPS for mapping. Uh, so, uh, and, uh, uh, voice recording. So those are also, um, you know, tools that, um, you would use in traditional knowledge, uh, transmission within, within this context. So we, we use those, uh, but frame within an app for a tablet by which we start gathering information, uh, and then selecting them in what we call, um, a bioculture database. Once database, it's, uh, when this is, uh, a store in the database, then, uh, as you've seen in the pictures, the, um, um, the, um, uh, our elders get together in knowledge circles. Um, and they start analyzing the data by use of graphics. Um, this is then tabulated into, into boxes, as you see in the U Pana, which is kind of a, a Chinese abacus. Uh, the way we use, um, these boxes, um, you know, a matrix, uh, and the ranking numerical ranking is done by using grains of mice. Uh, that, that provides, um, you know, um, uh, the numerical data that we are looking and which is then, uh, translated into, uh, into, um, you know, uh, back into the database and then we mix it, uh, with the help of, uh, you know, um, uh, already existing programs for, uh, research, um, like I survey or orders from which we have borrowed the methodology and we can do, uh, the analytical, um, measurements, uh, and arrive to some conclusion. So, um, the conclusions, those conclusions go into another meeting of elders and youth who, uh, them, um, analyze the, the resulting information to take the best decisions in terms of which of those, um, or how to apply that information in solving problems. It could be, uh, um, the, um, the metrics idea that the, uh, our ancestors are in class use automatic stool that our ancestral ink has used to use, you know, they, um, of course they, um, they, um, they, um, um, they, um, allow us to, um, to, um, um, create this, this type of, um, of approach, um, of, uh, I mean, of process. Um, and then once it's, um, uh, the decision is made, then the community assembly sanctions and becomes part of a life plan. A life plan. So it's included in, in a long term plan, which, uh, the local authorities have the obligation to implement. So that's more or less the, uh, uh, how we combine, you know, uh, uh, our old tools, um, borrow from, um, from, uh, modern tools, uh, the mechanics of doing it and produce results that can be useful to particular, um, situations or problem solving that are more localized. localised. I don't know if that responds to question, Christina. Yes, thank you very much. I mean, maybe I'll just add to clarify, because I know about the transect use and in the maze park they've been doing transects walking through the landscape using smartphones with this app and the elder or community researcher and the youth and maybe a staff from the local NGO, a scientist, they walk together and there's probably more people from the communities and in that way they can do a transect looking at the plants with the elders talking about their uses and the knowledge being transferred to the youth and the plant having a botanical name and that goes in as they walk to see each plant, they have a discussion sharing knowledge and they take a picture and they put the information in and they collect information about medicinal and nutritious wild plants and that's all gone straight into their community database. So anyway, I just thought, trying to give it some practical example of how it's used. Right, well we're coming close to the end. We still have a few minutes of discussion. I put a question in the agenda. How can interdisciplinary methods be used in a decolonising participatory action research framework? I don't know if anybody wants to comment on that. I guess we've heard about lots of interdisciplinary methods, ethnobotany, we've heard about archaeobotany and we've heard about oral histories and I don't know if anyone wants to reflect or comment on their usefulness for indigenous-led research. Cristina, if I may, can you allow me? Yes, go ahead please. I think what you have said is very important but it's part of the whole picture. You know, we are reducing this discussion to the practice of research in the field where you have to be respectful, you have to follow primal consent and try to support the local movement in terms of decolonising processes. But that decolonising must also happen in research institutions. If you see many of the institutions out there that do this type of research, you know, they don't have any indigenous academic or researchers in their staff. Or, you know, research is done in a way that it's cheap to hire indigenous researchers in the country of origin, you know, and do this and present it as a participatory. I hope the participatory also can include the salaries so that this is the same type of recognition goes to researchers, individual researchers, as the same, you know, balancing with those of academics. Also, the lack of individual researchers to actually guide, you know, this transformative approach, decolonising approach in these institutions everywhere in the world, it needs to be complemented, you know, with a devolution of genetic material, cultural material that was misappropriated, that was pillaged, you know, from indigenous lands, in colonial times, and there's, you know, loan overdue that seeds, medicinal plants, ornamentals, trees, and, you know, and then, you know, go back to the communities of origin and stop being, you know, misused and utilized through patents and all types of commodifying methods in, you know, Western institutions. So, I think that this discussion on decolonising research also takes into account this other side of the of the coin, where colonial attitudes, racist, white supremacy, and research continues to be very strong, and it's not changing. So, it's just like a reflection on your previous comment. Thank you. Thank you very much, Alejandro. I fully agree with what you're saying. I have two questions. I think Julian, would you like to say something? Julian Garay? Yeah. So, actually, it was a question on this aspect of decolonising for Alejandro, because I see that there's a use of historical text and of European colonial text and of the colonisation, and I wonder, because we have also a lot for the Caribbean, but the question is, how do you make the decision of actually what, you know, decolonising that narrative from those texts? How can, how does, how, what is the process that the community makes to actually like, oh, this is what we're going to take from this? I think that's, you know, defined by the specificity of what the community considers to be a priority in terms of solving problems. You know, it could be, you know, as in our case, climate change in particular mountain ecosystems, in the Andes is one of the, you know, existential threats that we have. All the crops are moving very fast up in the mountain. And most of our crops are just, you know, at the top. And we are very sure that we're going to lose, not just the crop, but also, you know, complete seed, seed and food systems. So in that case, like, everybody agrees that whatever effort we make into learning, creating knowledge, organising information to solve those problems must be focused on that type of, on that type of problem solving. And then once we have, you know, the, the objective of what we want to do, then we go into what we have, you know, and I think in our case, because, you know, we have a long history in terms of having created a relationship with environment and tribe on it in a very organic manner. That means that we have applied science and technology in the past, you know, for the benefit of all relations, the benefit not just of humans, but the benefit of all. So what type of tools do we use to keep keep, you know, focusing on that, focusing on that, you know, wholism, focusing on that type of balance and interaction that would create, you know, a new tomorrow. So then we choose the different tools, be it from the past or present or combined. And that's why we, we, we resolve the question. So I guess in each context, it's going to be different. Thank you, Alejandra. I'm afraid we've got, well, we're meant to be finishing in two minutes, but if it's okay, we could stay for another five minutes as people want to ask questions. Yiching Song wants to say something. Go ahead, Yiching. Hi. Yes. Thank you for all the contributors. Alejandro's presentation about the biocultural, biocultural heritage framework really remind me of our spiritual leader, spiritual leader, Jixianhe. He attended the day before yesterday that he presented about the communities biocultural part, like forming to four part, culture, physical, which is the eco, eco, eco, biodiversity part and the community part. And he described that exactly like Alejandro described. It is a cultural spirit as a base, as a core, and it is alive and organic process interacted within the community and among the other communities and with outside world. And it's a live process, evolution process. So I think that if we're talking about decolonizing research, the first thing we need to do is that we really need to understand them, learning from them in order to realize that we really need to be follow the community-based action research and touch to the ground, working together with them. And rather otherwise, we cannot, we cannot understand the whole, it's a whole world, it's a whole complex, complexity, alive, organic world. It's not like a science, it's just a part and a piece, one special actually in one part. We really need to understand the linkage in the whole systems. If we're not with them, we have no idea. So that's what I want to add. Thank you. Great. Thank you very much, Yi-Ching. Zhou-Zhi, you wanted to make a comment? Please go ahead. Zhou-Zhi-Ching- Yes, there is a thread in the discussion about what can be recovered, for example, from colonial archives or history and material written by the outsider, right? Now, in the Cordillera, we had to write our own history because the books that are used in the schools were all colonial history, right? However, we had a very strong supporter who was a historian and he's an American scholar, actually, and he wrote Cracks Through the Parchment Curtain, right? And what he did was to actually use all of the historical archives, but using historical research to understand and interpret what was actually happening in the, on the land at that time, right? And that material that he has written, including his other historical writing, became the material, supplemented a lot of the material that the students and the researchers, the indigenous researchers, used to write our own history of the Cordillera. So there really is a lot of material that can be interpreted in our own way that is in the colonial archives. For example, when even in, this is not just in the Philippines, for example, in Moluccas when they needed their maps to record their customary systems, they had to go back to the Dutch libraries to get that, right? So there is a way of, there is another aspect of decolonization of those colonial institutions. And I think they are starting to take the steps, the way that we are in that history is understood and owned and appropriated for us to make our own story. And I think this is one of the strands that has gone through the discussion. Thank you. Great. Thank you, Xochitl. I'm afraid we're out of time now. It's been great discussion. Thank you so much, everybody. I'm not going to summarize everything, but just to say, yeah, I think this issue that Alejandro raised about the repatriation is, you know, really important one. And we've seen how in the potato park repatriation of native potatoes has brought back revived indigenous knowledge and culture and, you know, created a genetic reserve that's important for the whole world. And there's a lot of seeds that the indigenous communities have lost and that are sitting in gene banks, you know, and they could be being used and used for climate adaptation and being protected in nature. So that's a really important issue. I wanted to say thank you so much to Alejandro and to Baghele Chilisa and to Florence Daguitan for your great presentations. I've learned so much from you. Thank you very much. And thank you to the presenters this morning. And just to close really a few things that we've learned in the last four webinars. We've learned that indigenous food systems play a critical role in achieving SDG2 and in feeding humanity in a sustainable way in future in the longer term and a resilient in a resilient way, not only to climate change, but to COVID-19 and also in a compassionate way because of the solidarity values. Whereas under the current food system, we're seeing growing food insecurity and hunger. And so indigenous food systems provide critical lessons for transitions to more sustainable and equitable food systems. And we've heard very strongly today that research must address indigenous people's priorities and the many challenges facing indigenous food systems. And this is urgent because we are losing traditional knowledge. We're losing crops. We're losing culture very fast. And research must also address the unequal power relations between researchers and indigenous peoples and be empowering towards indigenous peoples and give them a voice and recognise them as experts who have ancestral wisdom that offers valuable pathways towards sustainable and equitable development. So finally, on terms of the next steps, we're going to circulate the workshop report and use the outputs to inform various policy meetings. So I know this hasn't been a perfect forum for networking, but I hope you will follow up on contacts that you've made. I'm really grateful for all of your inputs, all of the indigenous peoples, all of the universities, the FAO and IIED partners. We need to continue working together. And finally, a huge thanks to all the indigenous experts and speakers from universities. And a huge thanks to Philippa Ryan from Kew, who we're doing this workshop with and the AHRC project. And a huge thanks to the IIED support team, to Matt Wright and Alistair, who've provided great technical support, and to Beth Down at IIED. I've really enjoyed it. I've learned so much from you. I hope we can continue the conversation. And we'll probably send a short survey if you if you wouldn't mind. Anyway, I'm sorry about the distance and that we can't actually see each other. But thanks a lot for all the learning. Goodbye. OK, goodbye. Goodbye.