Pasture and Forage Management - Best Practices to Manage your Animal Production
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bLGL5rcL71s
People & Blogs
 But today we will be focused on these management practices. So first, livestock production is really important. So we're going to focus today on ruminants, everything that is daily cows or. All small ruminants like goats, chips, you know, but we are going to focus mainly on animal feeding. There is six standard operating process that are really important when raising animals or livestock. Those are animal health, transportation, pesticide control, biosecurity and staff training. But today we are going to focus on animal feeding. That is one of the most important. So the objective of the producers when feeding animals is to get the livestock to gain weight over time. The management practices that grant competitive advantages are really important to keep down the production costs and to utilize resources in an effective way. So we are looking to manage the. Forage or the pasture land in efficient way. In that way, we can get production and reduce the inputs to attain these goals. So we are going to focus on management practices that increase the net profits of the production. And the question that we have to do today is like what determines the performance of animal production. But there are many factors that determine that performance. Those are the quality of the pastures and the species. The species of plants, species of animals. Improved pastures. That's when we need to seed new grasses or new legumes in the field. But that one requires investment. But the most important is the management practices. If you have already established grasses, native grasses or naturalized grasses in your farm, you have to manage them in order to get good production and good grazing or pasture lands. The management options to increase production when grazing includes forage inventory that we are going to discuss. Inventory that we are going to discuss all these topics in the presentation. So this is a this is summarizing the topics that we are going to discuss. So forage inventory, improved tropical forages, manage stocking rate and the grazing pressure, establish a proper rotation plan, soil sampling and fertilization plan and the nutritional quality of forage, including nutritional analysis of the forage. Another management options that we have to increase the production is the integration of legumes in the pastures that we are going to discuss that improve the genetic potential or of your lifestyle that will be related to select those animals or that genetic that allows you to get good performance and good production. And also the irrigation that is really important during these times of changes, the climate change and the droughts are really common now in the in the tropics in the Caribbean. So we have to work to get better irrigation systems or better storage of water. There is many factors limiting the production, but we are going to discuss today the four more important factors that are limits the production of grasses or legumes for our livestock. The first factor limiting production are is the edific factors and edific factors are everything that related to soils, the physical, chemical and biological properties of the soil. So it's really important to know the pH of your soil, the nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium, calcium, magnesium of your soil, and the importance of symbiotic nitrogen fixation. We are going to discuss also pasture lands. What is the difference between native and naturalized pasture lands or forest? What is the pasture composition? What is the difference between the animal stocking rate and current capacity? We are going to define those terms. But later on, there will be a link in the presentation where you can see a video explaining how to calculate stocking rate and current capacity. Because it's an extensive topic. And you will have to, we will need a complete class to explain that. So today we are going to explain just those definitions. Grazing pressure, grazing systems, and the dry season management. Another important factor will be the climatic factors. How we manage water, light and temperature. So let's start with the agape factors or soils. And the animal or livestock species that we are raising. So let's start with the agape factors or soils. Something that every producer has to do is to take soil samples every two to three years. So that information, that analysis provide, will provide you the amount of nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium, and other elements that you have in the soil. It's important to know that grasses grow really good in pH of five, between 5.5 to 7.5. If the pH is lower than 5.5, then you will have to apply lime to correct that pH. In here I have the MPK. MPK means nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium. There's a formulation that we commonly use here in Puerto Rico. That is the 15.5.10. That means that there is 15 kilograms of nitrogen in every 100 kilograms of fertilizer. Or 5 kilograms of potassium in every 100 kilograms of fertilizer. So it's really important to take the soil samples. In that way we can know the amount of nutrients available in the soil. And that's one part of the information that we need. But also it's really important to take the forage sample. Because when we do forage sample, we will note the nutrient extraction indicator from the plant. So in that way we know how much nutrient the plant extracts from the soil. With that information, we will develop a fertilization plan. And we will apply the amount of fertilizer needed to grow grasses or legumes. At the bottom of the slide, you can see some numbers there. The ones are the nutritional values that you should find in forage samples. They are good for the development of the animals. For example, it is necessary to have 0.1% of magnesium in a forage sample for development. And it's also important to provide 33.4 grams per day per animal of calcium. So if you have that numbers, that values in your forage sample, that indicates that you have a good quality forage, at least in nutrient content. So if you have that number of soil samples, you should take at least 10 subsamples per paddock randomly. You can see here in the picture, the best way to do it is doing a zigzag. Then you should mix the soup samples and take a sample of that mixture of soil and send it to analyze. It's important to observe the geography of the farm and divide the paddocks. And divide in paddocks that are similar. For example, if you have a flatland, you should sample that flatland separate from the slopes. If you have a humid area, you should sample the humid area separate from the drier areas. Because there will be difference differences in composition of these samples. Another important thing about fertilization is that you should fertilize based in nitrogen levels when you are grazing animals, because the livestock provide a lot of the phosphorus and potassium to the soil. But if you are producing hay or cutting grasses for silage, then you should provide at least 326 kilograms of nitrogen, 123 kilograms of phosphorus, and 506 kilograms of potassium per hectare every year. And then you should also provide the amount of nitrogen that grasses or legumes need for growth and development and to have a good yield of those forages. There is a, there are some factors affecting the forest yield. Forest yield is very important because it will determine the amount of animals that you can raise in your farm. So how and when to apply fertilizers? Forest yield is very important because it will determine the amount of fertilizers that you will provide in one year. In far, in five to six applications during the year, every two to three months. Why? Because if you provide all the fertilizers or the fertilizer at once, you will increase the loses and the runoff or leaching of that fertilizer and the plant will not be able to use it. So you have to give it in different applications during the year. Apply the nitrogen only, apply nitrogen only. If phosphorus and potassium levels are high in your soil sample, then you only have to provide nitrate. And the most common fertilizer that we use to provide nitrogen is urea. You can also use animal manure or compost to provide organic matter and nutrients. But in that, in that case, you will have also to send samples of your compost or the manure you have in the farm to analyze, to know how much nutrients are available in that compost or manure. And then you will know how much kilograms of the manure or compost you will have to use to fertilize. It's important to apply fertilizers when the soil has some moisture in the soil. So it's important to have moisture in the soil so it can go to a solution to the water and plant can uptake that nutrients. Another important topic in soil fertility is the use of legumes for fertilization. Legumes can do symbiotic nitrogen fixation. And symbiotic nitrogen fixation is when rhizobium bacteria that can be in the soil or can or can be inoculated in the soil. That rhizobium bacteria can fix an morphetics nitrogen and plants will provide to the bacteria carbohydrates. For example, we have a picture here on the top right of your screen. The one is sun hemp. The scientific name is Crotalaria juncia. And that plant is able to fix 150 kilograms of nitrogen per hectare. And so there's a huge credit of nitrogen when we plant this type of crop. Crotalaria juncia or something can be used as a forage for daily cows or goats or chips. Crotalaria juncia or something can be used as a forage for the livestock. It provides a lot of protein for the livestock. Also, these type of plants like Crotalaria helps to control nematodes in the soil because this plant produces some alkaloids and the alkaloids immobilize and kill nematodes in the soil. So it also helps to control some pests and diseases in the in the field. And provide many other ecosystem services. You can see in the picture of the bottom of the of your screen to the right, that ones are the nodules of the rhizobium bacteria. If you open one of these nodules and they are like red color or reddish, that means there's a active rhizobium that is fixing nitrate. And these are really good indicator to know if you have rhizobium present in your fields. So let's go down and speak a little bit about the pasture factor. The objective of the forage forage is to manage the manage them to increase the production through photosynthesis. Harvest or graze each paddock every 28 to 35 days to give time for the carbo carbohydrates to accumulate in the roots. So that means you can put animals in a paddock. Once they graze the paddock, you have to rest that paddock for 28 for 28 to 30 days at least to get a good regrowth. It's important to give a good resting time to the pasture then to ensure a good regrowth. of forage. You can see in the picture at the bottom that I put a red circle. So when you're grazing animals, it's important that the plants have at least 30 to 45 days of resting time so you get a good regrowth. So when the plants only have like 28 days after regrow or 30 days after regrow, they are very digestible and very nutritious for the animals. The objective when managing livestock is to increase the intake of forage by grazing, reducing the waste or loss of forage. So when we manage the livestock, we want them to increase that intake because it's the cheapest way forage to feed animals. So you don't have to buy any other concentrate. They are really expensive today. So forages are the cheapest feed. But it's really important to know how much dry matter we have in the farm or your paddocks. For example, dry matter is what remains after extracting water from the grasses or legumes or any type of forage. We can calculate the dry matter content using that formula you have here on your screen. That is the initial weight or or humid weight or wet weight minus dry weight divided by the wet weight or initial weight. So that's the initial weight of the dry matter. And that way you can know how much dry matter you have in your paddocks or farms. And that information will help you to know how many animals you can raise in your farm. Daily cows intake is commonly between 2.5 to 4 to 4 percent of their life weight. Daily cows intake is a little bit more than 1.5 to 5 percent of their life weight. Native or naturalized pastures. That was our grasses that we have in our countries or farms for many, many years. Probably 50, 100 years ago that or more, it could be 200, 300 years ago, these grasses or legumes or different plants were introduced to our countries and we use it commonly for grazing. So these type of tropical grasses, mainly tropical grasses, tend to tend to have low nutritional quality and low metabolized energy. They are high in fiber and they have low levels of nitrogen and soluble carbohydrates and low digestibility. So that's why sometimes we recommend to plant new grasses or lingumes that we name or we know them as a improved grasses or improved tropical grasses. Later on in the presentation, you will have an example of one of those improved tropical grasses. So what we should know about the farm or the pasture to make a good management of the pasture. The first thing that we have to do as a producer is to is to do a pasture inventory to know the composition of the grasses in your farm. In that way, you will know the forage species that predominate in the farm or paddocks. And they and this inventory, you should do it every two to three years because it will provide you the information if you are managing correctly your farm. Because if it change over time and you are you are having now more weeds weeds or different type of grasses, that means you you are doing an incorrect management. So the inventory. Allows calculating the average production of dry matter. In the farm or paddocks. Grasses only persist if the soils are very fertile or if they are fertilized. Grazing helps in fertilizing because animals when they are grazing, they they well, the manure will be there, you know, in the paddocks and they will fertilize. Randomly, you should harvest one square meter in the paddocks in different areas of the paddocks. It should be done in the rainy season and in the dry season, because the amount of dry matter that farms or paddocks produce, it will change in the rainy and the dry season. So the way to do it is to you should randomly throw a square meter in the paddocks and then you should cut the grass inside the square meter and you should weigh it and get the wet weight. Then you should dry it in an oven for 48 hours at 70 degrees centigrade. And you should weigh again the sample, the dry sample. And then using the formula here in this slide, you can calculate the amount of dry matter. And that indicates how much dry matter you will have available for your life, the livestock. Another way that we use for research and also some farmers use is using the forage measuring plate. And then using the water to dry. But this instrument or tool is only is only good to use it when you have grasses that are short. And you should also take some measurements randomly in the paddocks. And this tool, it will tell you how much dry matter you have available in the field. And you don't have to take the square meter or dry the sample or anything like that. Just, you just do some measurements in the paddocks and it will tell you the amount of dry matter you have. But only works, as I said before, for short grasses. Another important thing that we should manage in the farm is the compaction. Sometimes we do soil samples and when we get the results, everything looks good. There is a good amount of diet rain, good amount of phosphorus and potassium. Then we do a forage sample and all the results are good. But when you are looking or evaluating your fields, you can see that there is no much regrowth that there is no more. So, if you are looking at the plants that are in the soil and the plants are small and looks like sick or maybe chlorotic like yellow, that can indicate that maybe there is problem of compaction. And the best way to evaluate that compaction is to buy a penetrometer. That is that instrument that you can see here or tool that you can see in the picture to the top right in your screen. That tool, when you press it to this in into the soil, if you get to the red area, that means you have compaction. So if you have compaction, there will be decreased aeration and infiltration in the soil. So the plants cannot use the water and plants cannot use the fertilizer you provide. So plants will not grow. Also, compaction can be caused by the livestock. Cows or it can be caused also for when you use like heavy equipment in the fields. So the best way to reduce that compaction is using a, in the case of grazing lens, you know, is the best, the best way is to use a eco-flow. The eco-flow is that implement that you can see there in the picture at the bottom. That implement is also available for animal force. If you have like bulls or any other animals, that implement is also available to use it with, with animals. So the eco-flow has like a metal pole that goes into the ground and opens the ground and destroy that compaction layer. And that will allow air and water and fertilizer to go into the soil. So the plants can grow. Another important factor when speaking about pasture land, if to calculate the livestock carrying capacity and the livestock carrying capacity is defined as the average number of animals that can be productively maintained on a unit area for a given grazing period. Without causing the grassland to deteriorate. So the current capacity will be affected by soil type, chemical, physical and biological compositions of the soil, the climate, the pasture management and the forest species. Today we are not going to explain how to calculate that because we will need a complete class for that. So the current capacity is to calculate that. There's many steps. But if you look for information or publications in the web about carrying capacity, it's important to know that they use a unit known as a animal unit. So the animal unit is a animal unit. And one animal unit corresponds to a 400 and 454 kilograms cow and a calf. So I have a table here for, with all the animal units equivalents for different livestock. So a mature cow with a nursing calf is equivalent to one animal unit. For example, a bull is equivalent to 1.25 animal units and a goat, mature goat, is equal to 0.15. So probably between 6 to 8 goats are equivalent to one animal unit. So this table is important because when you get to look for information in the web about the life-tock carrying capacity, you have to know what is an animal unit to understand the information. And then if you are going to calculate the current capacity, it's important to determine the effective area, determine the pasture area, determine the grassland conditions, determine the dry matter and energy produced by the pasture, determine the utilization level, compare the water, compare the energy supply with the demand, and adjust load capacity by slope and distance of the water. That one is also really important. If you, you are going to see some information after this slide, but in that link there at the bottom of the, of the slide, there is a video that is really interesting and is good explaining how to calculate the current capacity in English. These tables are in Spanish because I couldn't find it in English information, but I will explain it to you because there is, uh, the important thing is to understand the numbers. For example, in the first, in the first table, there is some correction factors. You can go to the third line. The third line means a place that has a slope of between 34.5 and 47.5 percent of slope. You have a, you have paddocks or a farm that has that type of slope between 24 and 45, 47 percent means you have to reduce the amount of animals in that paddock by 50 percent because they cannot utilize the whole amount or the whole area of the paddock for grazing because of the inclination. Also, it's important to have a good water source for the animals so they can drink water and you should have a good water source for drinking every point, every 1.6 kilometers. If you have a drinking source of water every 3.2 kilometers, that is not a good, uh, place for livestock or for raising animals. So you have to, you have to provide water to the animals and there should be a good drinking spot every 1.6 kilometers. So you have to provide water to the water source for the water source. So you have to provide water to the water source for the water source. This one is different. This factor that we are going to discuss now is the stocking rate and is different from the current capacity. Stocking rate is the relationship between the number of animals and the area of the pasture they occupy in a given time. Stocking rate is the amount of paddock. Using the stocking rate, you can calculate the amount of paddocks you need for the amount of animals you have. The animals load or the animal load is determined throughout the carrying capacity. Loads greater than the adequate will will give you problems of overgrazing. The solution to reduce that overgrazing is logic is to reduce the number of animals or to reduce the time of the, the time the animals are on that paddock. If you reduce the number of animals, you will increase the available, the dry matter. The females will improve the physical condition and it will increase the pregnancy. And you will have weanings of the weaning of heavy, heavier animals. Another important factor that you should manage is the grazing, grazing, grazing pressure. The level of grazing of pastures by animals varies by selection and height of cut. The higher the stocking rate, the greater the grazing pressure. So to manage that high grazing pressure, we, we should look to that, to the grazing pressure, because it can affect the regrowth rate and may affect forage growing point. For example, one common grass in the tropic is the Guinea grass. The Guinea grass has high growing points. So if you allow animals to graze that Guinea grass really close to the ground, you, you will eventually kill the Guinea grass because the animals are eating that growing points. So we should not allow the animals to eat the complete plant. And I will explain that later with a picture. Grazing pressure. When you are grazing animal, there is a critical utilisation, depending on the species of grasses. The animals can eat 50, 50 to 60 percent of the available forage. If they only eat that 50 to 60 percent of the forage, there will, there will be no deterioration of the pasture and allows better animal performance. The grazing intensity must be managed using rotational grazing, because the rotational grazing controls the cutting height and also should be managed using fence or electric fences. Because when you use electric fence, it controls the cutting height and the selection of the animals. If you put the animals in a really big paddock, they will start eating. And then after three days, they will go back to the beginning to eat the regrow because it's fresh and it tastes good. But that will, that will put pressure on the gray, on the grasses. And eventually you are going to eliminate the good grasses in the field. So that's important. That's why it's important to use fence or electric fence to control the animals when grazing. So we go back here to the, to the critical utilization. Depending on the species is 50 to 60 percent. So we go back to the ground. And we put it here, a picture with a red line. That means the animal show, should only eat half of the grasses or legumes that we have in a paddock. Because in that way, the plant will be, will, will recover after grazing faster. And we will keep a good paddock for 20, 30 years. So, there's, there's another important factor that is the, in the grazing systems. There's different types of grazing systems. There is a continuous grazing system that are large areas grazed continuously with few divisions that we don't recommend that. There is one named deferred that is continuous grazing, but with a rest period inserted in the fields that we, we also do not recommend that type of grazing. We recommend to use the rotational grazing because the paddocks or areas are divided by permanent or temporary fence that allows better management practices. And what we recommend is to have, I know that there is a limitation sometimes of space or the number of animals that we have, but if you have a big enough farm and you can do at least 30 paddocks. So we recommend to put the animals in one paddock for one day and one night. And then next day you change it, change the animals to a different paddock. That means if you have 30 paddocks, your paddocks will have 29 days of rest and you will keep a healthy pasture for the animals. The goals of rotational grazing are longer resting time of the pasture so the pasture can recover and have a, and has good yield, less occupation time to reduce also the compaction, better use of the pasture, increase the production, minimize compaction as I say, distribute the nutrients, and facilitate the management of the pasture. So we have to do different practices of the farm. That ones are the goals of the rotational grazing. And that's why we use the rotational grazing. You can see here in the pictures, there are good managed paddocks. You can see in the picture of the bottom, the farms, the cows are there in one paddock. When they eat to that level, we should change the animals to a different paddock and rest that paddock for at least 28 to 29 days. Days. So when speaking of rotational grazing systems, there are different types of rotational systems. There is an alternate, the circular, in stripes, and the center link. The alternate is when you have two paddocks and you move the animals between these two paddocks. That is not recommended because it's really difficult to keep the grasses resting for at least 21 or 29 days. The circular or radial grazing system is also, it can be used, but it's not recommended because the water is not recommended because the water and shade for the animals is located in the center of the paddocks. So there will be a common accumulation of of manure and water and that place you have to clean it because animals can get sick. So we don't recommend that time of rotational grazing. There is another one named the central lane that is good and can be used. Central lane means you have like a road in the middle of the paddocks and then you have the different paddocks to the right or left of that center or lane. So we have to do a good rotation system. But the best one is the rotational grazing system in stripes. Because when you are doing stripes, probably you can use a permanent fence or you can use electric fence. But it's the best way to do it. So when you have these stripes, you put all the animals in that stripe. They will eat maybe for one day or maybe half day and you keep moving the electric fence and they will be eating fresh pasture every time you move the electric fence. So you reduce the losses because the animals when they walk through the pasture, they will kill some of the grasses, you know, and they will cause losses of 30 percent. So when you lose electric fence, it's really good to utilize the grasses in effective way. So if you lose electric fence, you can also use the grass that you're going to use. So if you lose electric fence, you can use the grass that you're going to use. Okay, now we are going to talk a little bit about the climatic factors. Because we are in the tropics, most, you know, but we have to correct by altitude. When selecting grasses, when you are going to select a grass that you're going to plant in your farm or or a legume, even when we are in the tropics, for example, in the picture, we have the volcano Cayambe in Ecuador. Ecuador is in the tropic, but the altitude of that place is 5,700 meters. So there in the mountains, it's really cold and you cannot use a tropical grass there. You have to use a temperate zone grass or legume. So it's important to know the geographic location that we are when we are doing management practices or selecting species of grasses or legume for the pasture. Another climatic factor that is important to manage in the dry season, mainly in the tropic or commonly in the tropics, we have two seasons. We can say is it dry season or the wet season? Grasses grow better during the during the wet season that commonly is also the summer. Grasses grow better during the winter. So during the months of June, July, August, September, October, November, grasses grow really fast. And there is a high production of dry matter. During these months, we it's difficult to produce hay because we get more rain and it's difficult sometimes to produce silage. But during these months of high production, we should conserve forage as a hay or as a silage because it's when we have a lot of a lot of a lot amount of dry matter. So when we we get to the dry season, we will have available grasses as hay or silage to supplement the animals or the livestock. But also during that time is the best time of the year to do new to plant new paddocks or to plant new species or grasses in your farm. If you're going to establish a field with grasses or legumes, it's really good to establish during the summer. So during the dry season, we should know, as I said before, our current capacity in the dry season, the dry season because in that way we can change the stocking rate. If we get a drought, probably we have to sell some animals or change the stocking rate. We should also schedule the birth, the birth of animal animals or livestock to during the months of grass abundance. also we should do some supplementation if there is a drought. So we should have hay or silage or or other feed to keep these animal weight. If you have resources available, it's important to have irrigation. And as I said before, have some conserve forage like hay or silage to keep these animals during the dry season. So the current capacity and the stocking rate is really important to calculate during the dry season and the wet season so you can adjust the amount of animals that you can raise in your field in your farm during both seasons. So the current capacity and the water is really important to be able to do that. In March 23, we are going to give a presentation about silvopasture. But silvopasture is a good way to manage livestock during the dry season because the because the bush or trees that we plant for in the silvopasture systems are a good source of forage and protein for the animals and it keeps the shade of the animals also and it will help to keep the water in the ground also. So there are many, many, many ecosystem services that silvopasture provides when raising livestock. Another way to prepare for the dry season is to start planting in your farms, improve forage or species, new cultivars of grasses that are tolerant to drought, that have better palatability, that have better digestibility, better protein. So it's important to keep records of the precipitation of the animals. It's also important to store water. It's important to make irrigation pumps. It's important to develop protein banks for the animals and cut and carry. So we can also select areas of the farm where we grow grasses, legumes or different type of plants. And then we can cut these plants and provide that forage to the animals. But these places we are not going to use it for grazing. It's just to grow dry matter that we will give to the animals during the drought season, the during the dry season. Another important thing that we have to know is how to manage the solar radiation or the light. During the summer there is a higher solar radiation. There is greater solar radiation in the summer than in the winter. And the sun tends south in the winter. And that will have an effect on plant vitality. So in the winter, the slope, slopes facing south will have more solar radiation than those that are facing north. And those facing north will receive shade from the mountain itself. So that's really important because if your farm is in a mountain, and you have this type of effect that you should observe that in your farm, that slope facing south during the winter, you should plant, you should have your protein bank or better grasses in that area of your farm. That one that is facing south because you will have more production for your livestock. And then another important factor is the temperature. But tropical grasses tolerate heat. They have a C4 metabolism. So it remains efficient at high temperatures, the metabolism of of tropical grasses. We should also select livestock breeds that tolerate to high temperature. Here in Puerto Rico, we are working with a type of daily cow that has short hair. So we are selecting those animals because those animals spend more time grazing under the sun and they produce more milk and they earn less time resting than those that has longer hair. So we are working with this type of breed and selecting, trying to to keep that trait in our livestock. Higher temperatures cause more evapotranspiration. So that means we need more water. And that's important when working with silvopasture. Because if we have trees or bushes that give some shade to the animals and the ground, we'll keep more water in the ground and the animals will have better performance in the shade than in places that are too hot. Common species that we have in the tropics are stargrass, the pangola grass, guinea grass. These ones are common names and probably you will know these grasses by a different name. But those ones are really common. But most of these native grasses or natural grasses, the pangola grass, including also the improved grasses, when we manage them, we should, as I said before, we should only allow the animals to eat 50 percent of the grass or legumes available in the field. You can see in the picture at the bottom right, when animals eat or remove 50 percent of the volume or the biomass of the grass, grasses lost 2 to 4 percent of the roots. And that's it's okay. But if the if the animals eat more than 60 percent, then the grasses will lose more than 50 percent of the roots. And that eventually will allow grasses to so you will be losing your grasses from the paddocks. So the animals have to eat only 50 percent of the grass or 70 percent of the grass or legumes available in the field. And a good way to manage that is to cut a piece of wood. You can put it in the field, steak. You can put paint or something in the wood, you can see where the animal when the animals get to the 50 percent of the of that grass. So you put different marks on the field. And when you see all the red lines, for example, that the grass is touching that red line, that means they eat 50 percent of the field. And you have to remove them from there and put it in a different path. So some farmers do that. Another important management practice is to manage the forage nutritional value. So how do you do that? Well, that is very simple. It is you have to know some concepts like have grasses matures or they grow. The percent of leaves of leaves decrease. The percent of stems increases. Protein and energy content decrease. Fiber and lignin content increases. And grasses intake by the animals decrease. So in the picture to the right, you can see when these two lines intersect. That's when the grasses has maybe 20, 28 to 35 days of regrowth. This is the best point for grazing. If you allow the plants to grow too much, then the intake will be reduced and the animal will be eating grasses or legumes that are not nutritional for them. So as I said before, there's some grasses or topical grasses that have been improved. And these grasses, we know them, there are multiple species. We know them as Brachiarias or Panicum. The correct name for the Brachiarias is Urucloas. But a lot of people use the Brachiaria to identify them. So these type of grasses, Brachiarias and Panicums are tolerant to environmental factors and soil adaptability. They can tolerate drought, acidic soils, shallow soils, ponding, clay soils, and they can tolerate some diseases. They have better quality and nutrition. And they have an increase in production of 26 percent, 26 percent more milk and six percent more meat only by adopting the use of Brachiarias. So these grasses has been developed by the SEAD, is the International Center for Tropical Agriculture. And they have different cultivars of grasses. Maybe you know some of them. They are named mainly in Spanish, like Camellos, Llanero, Mulatto 2, and Guinea Grass, Mombasa. They produce high quality of dry matter with good quality. They allow to increase animals per unit area and they adapt to the integration of legumes. I have an example here of Megatyrsus maximus, that is Mombasa, is Guinea Grass. And this Guinea Grass, it can have 14 percent of protein if we fertilize and provide water correctly. And this plant tolerates drought. So that's one of the examples. But there is more than 12 improved grasses that we can use to establish new paddocks or plant these new grasses in your fields. There is also legumes. There is multiple species of legumes, but most of the legumes are native or naturalized in our countries. There's multiple species. Most of the legumes are tolerant to environmental factors and soil adaptability. They have more protein. They adapt to association with grameñas or grasses. And some of the legumes are good to control parasites in the animals because the legumes has tannins on it. The tannins helps to control the parasites in some of the parasites in some of the animals. For example, the one that is common, at least in the Caribbean area, is common, is this mantus. This plant has 22 percent protein. Animals love it, especially the goats. And it's a nitrogen-fixing legume. And you can, there is a cultivar that you can find seeds in the web. The cultivar is named mark. And it's a, it's a good plant to establish silvopasture or to grow it in association with some grasses. And then to finish the presentation, there is important to recognize and to know well the type of livestock that we are raising in our farm. Because all the animals are different, you know. So the question is how do animals graze? Well, cattle or ruminants, they wrap the forage with the tongue and take it to the molars or press it between the teeth and the dental ring and release it with a movement of the head. So, in the other hand, sheep and goats, they have the inventory, they have a thinner mouth, and more flexible lips that allow them to consume more woody plants. And that is important to know, because in the evolution, um, sheep and cows are very similar. They, they like to eat a lot of grasses. But goats, goats like to eat more, um, leaves and stems of woody plants. So if you are raising goats, they will, uh, they will prefer to eat leaves and stems of woody plants than eat grasses. However, grasses are important for goats because it will improve the quality of the milk. In here you can see that cattle, uh, commonly eats 70% grasses, 20% forbs, and at least 10% of trees. Sheep will eat, uh, 60% grasses, 30% forbs, and 10% trees. And goats, they eat 20% grasses, 20% forbs, 20% forbs, but they prefer 60% of their diet, uh, in trees, you know. So it's important to know that, uh, habit of the animals to manage them correctly. So to finish, it's important for you to know about other topics. These topics that are important that you should, uh, look for information and read a little bit is about the establishment and renovation of pastures, silbo pasture that we are going to give a presentation in March, and tropical improved forage species. So you can recognize these different types of grasses and legumes that are available, that we have seed available. So you can establish new pasture lands that can tolerate drought or can tolerate, uh, wet places, uh, that has better quality, better digestibility, better protein. And that is a way to, to prepare for the, uh, for the climate change and, uh, to prepare to the diseases that, uh, that are affecting, you know, our crops. To learn from home, research places. Thank you. Please change theπαac CONCEN Esp meaning to this life of your health. It's important to you. So all of our ancestors by believing in what you're seeing with the advent of the distinander groaning, this значит how far is being used by the type of that process?