NEW Farming vs OLD Farming.. Whats The Difference?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bLmjax2ZeHU
Entertainment
 Farming has changed over the years for many reasons. The way we grow crops has changed. The demand has grown a lot larger, and a lot of new equipment has been developed to attempt to make the jobs easier and more efficient. Many farmers prefer a certain type of method, whether it's the modern farming method or the more traditional one, and both have their advantages and disadvantages. In today's video, we'll be talking about new farming versus old farming. What's the difference? Stay tuned if you want to hear more about farming. Before we begin this video, if you enjoy content like this, please make sure to like, comment, and subscribe to my channel, and make sure to turn on post notifications so you can be the first to hear about my next video. Alright, let's get into it. 1. What is Old Farming? Old farming and new farming differ from each other in many ways. Old farming, also known as traditional farming, adheres to traditional methods of agriculture, and makes use of old age equipment and methods in order to farm. Because old farming was developed before technology and more modern machinery and equipment, it uses mainly handheld equipment and a lot smaller equipment to get the job done. Some methods used in old farming are plowing, where the soil is dug to make it loose. This is to bring all the nutrients to the top and put seeds on the bottom, to make the crops grow easier and better. Old plowing methods were usually a cart and a horse pulling it across the land, in order to dig up the soil and let the nutrients get to the top. Another method of old farming is irrigation, where water is transported to the soil and put on it to let the crop grow. In older days, this was usually done by buckets or a series of ditches dug around the land, so that when the rain fell, it would fill up the ditch and be able to get to the soil. This relied a lot on the weather and meant that certain crops could only be grown in certain places, or they would not get the correct amount of water or vitamins to thrive. Much of old farming was done by manual labor, meaning that farmers needed a lot of employees to sow seeds, water them, and to harvest them. This meant that people were out on farms for hours a day, sometimes seven days a week, making it hard work. Number 2. What is new farming? Now that we know what old farming is, what's new farming? New farming is simply farming modernized, in an attempt to yield more crop and make the tasks more efficient and easier. Many of the tasks in new farming are the same as old farming, just executed differently. For example, plowing and irrigation are still techniques, but now use new forms of machinery in order to yield a higher crop, and do so more efficiently. For example, plowing was done manually in old farming, meaning that farmers had to plow by using handheld equipment. However, in new farming, they now use tractors and other machines that they have to drive through the field in order to plow the soil. For irrigation, water channels are now connected through pipes and put out through sprinklers, meaning that plants can get watered at any time, and a lot more easily. It also controls how much water is given to the plants, meaning that it can get the right amount of water to grow properly and there is less chance for failure. New farming is usually done on much bigger farms and bigger areas of land because the machinery can now handle a lot more crop, and do it in the same amount of time a small farm would be taken care of. New farming is used to yield a higher volume, and is therefore used in a lot of commercial farming because the demand for crops is much higher, especially in more largely populated areas. One other thing that differentiates new farming from old farming is the use of chemicals. In recent years, more chemicals have been developed to preserve crops and also to help them grow faster. This eliminates the chance of the crop dying, and makes it easier to grow a lot of crops at the same time because there is very little chance of disease taking over and killing the crop. New farming is obviously a more modern approach to farming, so therefore a lot of bigger, modern farms use it because it has a lot of benefits to their crops and their yield. New farming was designed for modern commerce and the demand of customers in the modern day and age, so in a lot of ways it is more suitable for farms to use. 3. What are the advantages of old farming? Old farming has a lot of advantages in itself. Old farming works great for smaller, family-run farms, meaning that more traditional farms that were passed down by the family still use old farming methods because it suits the land and has worked on that farm for many years. This just means that the crop is smaller, and usually not used to supply big supermarkets or shops, but definitely works for smaller areas. Old farming is also more manual, and it means that the process can be checked easier as the labor is not reliant on machinery, so each process can be checked by a person and made sure that everything is running smoothly. A lot of artisan organic food is grown by smaller farms that use old farming methods, because they take longer but also promise better quality because each step of the process is hand checked by people that work on the farm, which aims to result in a better, fresher product. Another advantage of old farming is that it has a smaller impact on the environment. Whereas new farming uses a lot of machinery that can be harmful to the environment and the ecosystem, old farming is mainly hand-held and does not pose a threat to the ecosystem or damage the environment, as the soil regenerates a lot easier because it has been treated more gently. This is also a huge reason why many are trying to incorporate more methods of old farming into their practices now. 4. What are the disadvantages of old farming? Old farming has a lot of good things about it, but also many things that have led people to switch to newer methods of farming. Firstly, old farming takes a lot longer because it's all manual labor. This means that the work goes a lot slower and needs more employees on the farm to get the jobs done. Old farming also yields a lot less crops because it takes so much longer to do each job, and the equipment is not made for large areas of land. Because it yields a lot less crops than new farming, old farming is not a suitable method for big farms, or farms that supply big commercial supermarkets because it simply isn't efficient enough. Having said that, some methods can still be used with new farming. 5. What are the advantages of new farming? Now that we've talked about old farming, let's talk about new farming, and some of its advantages. An obvious advantage of new farming, and the reason why so many people prefer it, is because it's a lot more efficient. The machinery can plow and sow seeds a lot faster than manual labor, also meaning that new farming yields a lot more crops. This is why it's a widely used method, especially for farms with large areas of land who need to supply big stores. There's also less chance of failure with new farming, as the machinery is designed to carry out the process as efficiently as possible, with as little error as possible. That means that tractors and irrigation methods will make sure the crops can grow without something going wrong and losing all the crops that season. New farming can also use artificial things, such as lighting, to make crops grow at times of the year where they usually don't. So, now more products are available year-round instead of having to wait all year for a limited supply of a certain crop. This can be very beneficial because the population is growing and demand for food is getting higher each day. 6. What are the disadvantages of new farming? Of course, with every advantage comes a disadvantage. Although new farming is great when it comes to efficiency and yielding a high volume of crops, it's also not the best for the environment. New farming uses a lot of machinery, such as tractors, which is powered by fuel, and that can create greenhouse gases which lead to global warming. Because new farming is so widely practiced around the world, so a lot more greenhouse gases are being used. So, a lot more greenhouse gases are being created. Another disadvantage of new farming is the use of chemicals and pesticides. A lot of chemicals and pesticides are being used to make sure plants grow quicker and that the crop will not die. But, this also kills a lot of the ecosystem around them and can be incredibly harmful to the environment. This is why a lot of people using new farming are trying to develop ways to make the system more environmentally friendly, instead of killing off species because of the chemicals used. So, which one is better? There's no real answer for which farming method is better. It just depends on which method works for the farmer and what their end goals are. As long as the advantages and disadvantages are weighed out, both methods can be equally rewarding. And that concludes today's video of New Farming vs. Old Farming. What's the difference? What do you think? Let me know in the comments down below. Thanks so much for watching this video. If you enjoyed it, please make sure to like, comment, and subscribe to my channel. And make sure to turn on post notifications so you can be the first to hear about my next video. Thanks so much for watching, and I'll see you in the next one.