How Much Hay Equipment Costs in 2024
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BMXNIsfwwzg
Autos & Vehicles
 Welcome back everybody. I know it's been a while. That's because it's been hot and we really haven't got into too much because we've been in a little bit of a drought. But today I got the drum mower hooked up to the MT-232 and we're going to go for the second cut in this big field across the road from the house. So I'm going to go ahead and start cutting. I got my outside cut done. Now we'll go the other way. Cut like that the rest of the field. I can move quicker this time with the second cut and that's what's been holding me up. It's been about nine weeks since we did the first cut of hay, since we cut it. But we've had drought conditions here lately. We finally had a good soaking half hour of rain the other day. So that's what made me want to do this. But I want to get this cut because there's weeds growing up through it and hopefully we'll have an even better third cut. Hopefully. It all depends if we get rain or not. The first time we got 70, I think we could have got 90 to 100 if the hay baler hadn't broke on me. The shear pin went and then also the needles and the clutch for the pickup all went on me. So I think we could have got 100 bales on the first cut on this field. Okay, so right here when we make this turn, it's going to go up to hell. She doesn't like this hell. But it will make it in medium range. It's going to go very slow. We definitely couldn't have done the first cut in this field with this tractor. If we did, it would have taken us days, I think. But I mean, for this second cut, it's not going bad at all, really, for a 32-horse tractor on the hillside. I think you were kind of before. I want to get back in. I'm all going insane. I'm all going insane. Let's begin. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. five dollars and then the tar river drum mower i drove two and a half hours away to get it because i got it for the same price with the hydraulic lift kit that they would have charged me just for the drum mower around here and to to buy that with the hydraulic lift kit i spent three thousand nine hundred sixty eight dollars on it and then the new holland uh 67 hayliner uh i bought it for one thousand four hundred twenty three dollars and and then i i bought these from dealers because i didn't have a way to haul them i don't have a trailer to haul them except i did i was able to fit that in my dad's utility trailer trailer the the drum mower so for the for the baler and the rake to be delivered to the house i had to spend another 150 dollars so that brings the total of what i have so far up to six thousand five hundred thirty six dollars and you might as well make that over seven thousand dollars easily because of the new parts i had to i had to put on at least 20 new teeth on this hay rake and i still need some more and then i had to replace some parts on the baler and then i spent a lot of money in paint too so that's easily over seven thousand dollars i also bought a an old camper frame camper trailer frame and i'm trying to make that into a hay trailer i bought it for 150 dollars and we're welding some brackets on it and then i'm gonna have to buy the wood for it so that's going to be closer to 300 dollars total and then at one point probably next year i'm gonna get a hay tedder as well and that's probably going to be anywhere from i just saw one the other day for 600 and then they go up to a thousand so by the time it's all said and done we're going to be over eight thousand dollars to get our hay operation going but this is the baseline this is with the inflation prices and like i said i i did find some better prices on like on the baler on the hay rake you find them better on facebook marketplace but like i said i didn't have a way to haul them so this was the best route for me to go and the cheapest because if you buy a new square baler now those things run 30 40 000 so you know it was worth the time and the effort and uh i'm happy that we did it and now we're able to make our own hay and not just have to cut the fields but maybe make a little bit of profit from them so i hope you enjoyed this video get ready because soon here we'll be bailing our second cut and i got some new things i want to try so make sure you subscribe and you won't want to miss out on that video so until next time everybody thanks for watching