Strawberry Variety Update
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNuQB_DwnXs
Education
 Okay, I wanted to provide an update for the strawberry varieties for the state. Strawberry is probably the second most popular crop in the state, second to peaches. And there has been increased interest in production of strawberries, but for a variety of reasons, there's been some bit of hesitancy amongst the growers. For one, it's cited as being too difficult or expensive. And having made all of the investment, there still may not be the production of a crop in order to make a profit. So as we know, the best way to ensure a viable crop is to plant varieties that are well adapted, first of all, to use crops that are well adapted and varieties or cultivars within that crop that are well adapted to the area. So there's a great need in technological advancements and variety selection, variety development, be that strawberry or regardless of the crop that you're growing. And there are few with documented adaptability to our area. Camarosa is the big variety that we have. It has global adaptability, but it does have its issues. There is just a need for other varieties. And varieties are the most, one of the most important decisions that you're going to make in variety, in crop production. So the objective of this study and all of our variety trials is to improve strawberry production by introducing new, better adapted strawberry varieties to improve the specialty crop market in the state. And I wanted to start off by providing a list of the varieties. We looked at 12 varieties. This trial has been going on for about five years, not with all of the same varieties here. But we have our Albion, which is a day neutral, the only day neutral in the trial this year. Again, Camarosa developed by UC Davis and Camino Real, which is a variety that growers are becoming familiar with this year because Camarosa wasn't available. Camarosa is our market standard. It wasn't as available this year. So many growers had to depend on Camino Real. And I will talk about how it's done. And Chandler, our other variety, our other, our former market standard. And you can see some of the others. I wanted to mention Rocco and Liz. Those are two that were developed by NC State. I'm glad to have those in again this year. Just to give you an idea of what we did, the experimental plots that we had, they were all replicated four times. And each experimental plot was about 20 feet long. And that contained about 34 plants per plot, which resulted in a per acre plant number of about over 12,000. And we planted these on the 23rd of October of last year. And we planted on double staggered rows. And again, 23, 12,000 plants per acre, randomized, complete block design. You can see our double staggered row hole puncher, hole punching wheel there. Now, they also, as the holes are being punched into the plastic, there's also some water with a little bit of fertilizer entering the planting hole as well. We harvested this year. We harvested between April 7th and May 18th. We harvested 12 times. We did use row covers back prior to the freeze event in February 15th. And those covers remained on the strawberries for about two weeks. And here are our results. This is looking at the total barkable yield per acre for our strawberries. And as you can see, Camarosa, as we would expect, is still up towards the top. But we have a new variety, at least new to us, Fronteras. It's a variety that was produced by UC Davis. And it did pretty well this year. And I would like to be able to include it in our trials next year. And again, Camino Real, the variety that a number of our growers had to depend on this year, did quite well. It was very comparable to Camarosa as in previous years. But we look at Rocco. The yield of Rocco is a little bit diminished when compared to the others. But Rocco was bred to be an early variety. And it is meant to be a replacement for Sweet Charlie. And it does quite well. It has the production of something that's on par with Camarosa for that time of the season. And another important variable we looked at is the individual berry weight. As you can see, Fronteras, again, it was the number one yielder. And Fronteras was the largest berry. And the size of the berry was at a little over 27, almost 27.5 grams per berry. And that's a pretty large berry. And that's not the largest berry. Of course, we had some larger. It ranged from a little bit over 30 grams, maybe 33 grams, I think, some of the larger berries that we saw there. And then we can notice our market standard Camarosa at 21.5 grams, followed by Camino Real at 19.8, roughly almost 20 grams per fruit. And I was a little bit surprised that Camino Real came in at that size. Because early on, it appeared that Camino Real was producing some pretty large berries consistently. So, but the data doesn't lie. So, there you have it. But out of all of those varieties, what I wanted to do is focus on our overall top performers. And that's, again, our market standard Camino Camarosa and Camino Real, which is gaining in popularity. And Fronteras. And I didn't mention Ruby June. That's another variety that a lot of growers are interested in. It's been my opinion that, you know, a number of growers either love Ruby June or hate it. And, but I think it is growing in popularity. I don't have it pictured here, but we'll discuss that after. And I just wanted to have this graph here really just to show you what happened during the season. And, you know, where were these yields, you know, in according to the weeks of harvest. And so, you can see we had a, or at least we were, it appeared that we were coming off of a peak at the, our first harvest, April 7th. And we, and it's really odd this year, because we had a, we had a really big start. And we never really recovered in our trials. And we also had a very good start. We did have a peak, another peak, as you can see. We. So after that harvest, we had a. Just a really pretty significant decline. And all of the varieties perform that trended that way. And you can see the dotted line here is our average, average yield for across all berries. And Camino Real and the gray. And I hope you can see these, these, these colors here, these lines, but, and Fronteras. And Camino Real Camarosa. You can see Camarosa appears to be a little bit earlier than Fronteras. And, and it's comparable to Fronteras in Markable Yield. And again, Camino Real, it is more similar, I suppose, to Camarosa in terms of, of, of, of, uh, earliness. And I also wanted to take a look at what was going on during the week, as we, as is pretty common, or pretty typical, is that we start off with some big berries. And as the season progresses, we, we, the berries start to tend towards the smaller berries. And that's because we, when we start our primary flowers, when we begin, those are larger flowers. And so larger flowers typically mean a larger berry. And, uh, we can see that, uh, the, the berries started off here. And we did actually see, uh, somewhat of a peak in the berry size. Uh, but it did, again, it did start to trend down to smaller berries as we, as we approached the end of our, our, our harvests. So, and I wanted to focus on specific varieties. And this is Fronteras. It, it produces really large berries, conical shaped berries. Uh, the largest berry that we had, uh, as I mentioned, was about 32 grams. Uh, the, the, uh, it, the maturity is a little bit later than Camarosa. Uh, the plant size in, in terms of the plant, the plant is similar in size to Camarosa. Uh, Camarosa does have a, it's a large plant. And the berries, the berries sort of had a, uh, almost for lack of a better word, the, the, the, the color of the redness was almost, it tended to be a little bit fluorescent red. It was, uh, just a kind of a, an extra brilliant red. It can't really, it wasn't really captured in this picture right here. Uh, but we, you really see it in the, uh, you really see it in the field. Uh, it was a sweet berries. It was a pretty pleasant berry, uh, pretty taste, uh, pretty pleasant tasting berry. Uh, it had a little bit of tartness. Now, moving on to Camino Real, uh, the variety that the growers had to depend on this year. Uh, the, uh, out of all of the growers, I think one was not completely satisfied with Camino Real. Uh, I've heard after the other than that, I've heard nothing but good things about the variety. It is a large, it produces a large berry typically. And that kind of probably seems to suggest to me that, uh, what we were seeing in the field and the numbers that we're actually getting for the berry size, uh, that may suggest that we have quite a bit of variability in the, in the, in the, in the berry, in the individual berry size. Uh, but, uh, so I, as I mentioned, it really seems to, in the field, it really seemed to produce some fairly large berries consistently. And it is a berry that is similar to Camarosa. And, uh, you know, it, it, it was favorable to most growers and it has a, a pretty, a fairly pleasant taste. One of the, the downsides of, of this berry is that, uh, and the growers really didn't point this out, uh, that they, they were quite pleased with it, but, uh, it, it has a reputation for not being quite as flavorful, not being quite as sweet as some of the others. Uh, but we found that you can improve, uh, that if, if the berries are, are, uh, harvested when they're really red, but, uh, you know, this is, it's not very, uh, pretty, not a simple thing to do really, when you're in the field, especially in a, you pick operation, uh, when, uh, customers are, you know, they're finding red berries and they, and they pick them. Uh, but if this berry is left on the plant a little bit longer, you can improve on the sweetness, uh, in the flavor of the berry. Uh, and that brings us to Camarosa. Uh, it, it had a maximum berry size of, of, of, uh, 22 and a half. Uh, it was the, uh, the top yielder again this year. And it, uh, has a, a pretty, uh, an excellent flavor. And it's, it's, you can match it. There are some in the trials that have, um, surpassed, I think, Camarosa in flavor, but, uh, it does have an excellent flavor and it is a, uh, excellent yielder, a fairly consistent yielder. Um, it, it's usually in the tops every year and that's twice the market standard. And the, the added, uh, variety I wanted to talk about was Ruby June. Uh, it, it was a variety of much discussion early on, as I said, at least early on, a lot of the growers, they, they either loved it or they hated it. Uh, we think that there's probably something to do with, uh, fertility. So varieties vary in terms of, um, of their, uh, nutrient, uh, requirements, particularly nitrogen. And so, um, these might be a higher feeder or it may not require as much nitrogen, but there, there is developing information out there on varieties, um, and their, um, their nutrient, uh, requirements. Uh, this is a variety bred by Lesson Canyon. And, uh, this is, uh, I mean, it, it is, I, I think it's a fairly good variety. It is slightly earlier than Camarosa in our trials. And one thing about this very, uh, the plant, at least it's a medium-sized plant, but the, it has a tendency to produce these really large fan type leaves. And that's one of the, the, the things that sort of stuck out to me. Uh, the, the berry is a very good tasting variety. It's, it was, I found it to be very sweet, a very flavorful, uh, berry. And some of the growers, uh, expressed the same, um, uh, set the same things in terms of the quality of Ruby June. Oops. So, well, that brings us to the end of the presentation. And, um, if you have any questions, I'd be, uh, happy to entertain them.