Robotic milking gives Kilkenny farmer 'relaxed life'
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BR0xN-1kLoI
Education
 I'm Sean Meehan from Kilkenny. I'm a new entrant to Dairy Inn. At the moment I'm milking 87 cows. I intend going to 120 or thereabouts. I first started researching automatic milking machines probably five years ago. I had an idea I was getting back in. I have sons following on and just put something in place for them. What impressed me about the guillem on a box was speed of attachment, quarter separation, the fact that you were able to attach them manually onto a heifer, the pit beside behind the robot you could examine a cow that perhaps had a high conductivity reading. You could assess whether she had massitis or not physically and you can treat them in the box in the environment or used to being in. Everything is done in liner like preparation, washing and dipping. Well my choice of where to put all of us was very simple. I had an existing shed and existing cattle slats that lent itself to conversion and I added a small building onto that to house the robots and machine room and so on. Well I found the separation area very handy and very convenient for cows freshly calved heifers and so on. You can train them over a period of a couple of days from the separation area and if you want to isolate a cow for one reason or the next you can separate her into the separation area and she's there waiting on you to examine. The trained cows on the robot had very good over a period. Some went in the first day very easily on their own out of curiosity and were milled and some took three or four days. I had a few cows that were took much longer. I had them separated in a paddock outside and eventually I'll just let them out of the main herd, let them sink or swim and they all swam. My grazing set up is I run an ABC system. It changes every eight hours, C being the paddock, the night paddock between six and two and I usually allocate around 20-25 percent of the daily allocation in C and the rest are A and B are 40 percent. Cows got accustomed to grazing and coming to the robots at certain times over a period of a couple of days. The farm you have, you can access it all times once you have internet connection and it's very handy. You wake up in the night for whatever reason or whatever you can make sure everything's working okay. You can check whether there's cows being milked or cows waiting to be milked or whatever on the phone. At startup and during the installation, FTS were out here practically every day. At startup they were here to help me and plus I can access them on the phone at any stage or any problem they'll talk me through it or come out and sort it out. Anyone considering automatic milking, from milking in a previous life, milking in a parlour, there's a complete difference. It's a more relaxed way of wildlife. You do things when it's convenient for you and I suppose the advice is go gae.