LIVE: Africa-China Agri-Tech Partnership — Investors Round Table on Sustainable Farming
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bu3cBReuu5A
News & Politics
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. So thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Beginning of the 1960s all the way to the 70s, which I believe really solved the food security problem for over 2 billion Asian people. And over here in Agra, we believe that might be one of the experiences we may take from Asia to solve the food security problem here in Africa. But when we talk about the Green Revolution, one very apparent question would emerge, that is sustainability. Because during the Green Revolution in Asia, people believe, not me personally, but people believe Asian, I'm Chinese, okay? So Asians will be using too much fertilizers, too much pesticide, which cause the degradation of the soil, degradation of the bio system. And here in Africa, at Agra, we believe we should, on one side, try to take some lessons from Asia, but also try to avoid something that we should never do. So here I did my best to bring the best panel, I believe, on this topic. I'm going to address questions to each one of them, and hope we have some, like, takeaway from those experts. The first question will be addressed to Mr. Tiku, the managing director of SunRipe and VAL. I want to understand what kind of practice that you implement in your daily business that will be supporting sustainable farming. I understand you use a lot of bio ways to kill the insects in the farms, not to use, like, pesticides. And I'm really adored to that practice. Please, Mr. Tiku. Thank you very much, and good afternoon. With respect to sustainable farming in Africa, I think we have an ideal climate to grow pretty much in the tropics at least 52 weeks a year. And we do have certain months where, especially in the East African side, we get two rain showers a year, we get a little bit of temperatures, but ideally we have 12 hours of daylight, 12 hours of darkness, and we are actually able to grow a product in not extreme conditions. Like in the Northern Hemisphere, and if you go in the Southern Hemisphere, temperatures are 30, 40 degrees, or very, very cold into freezing. We don't have any of that. So we have quite a comfortable climate. To be able to grow, number one. Number two, we have very good soils. Our soils have not been farmed and exploited at all. We have just started farming in the last 100 years or so. So our soils are also very, very good. And number three, we don't really have the pest pressure. So what we really have to do is work out what grows in our agronomic zones. In the northern part of the country, where we are growing in the Western Rift Valley, at 2,000 meters, and it's all really about understanding the soil, making sure we have a very strong root zone, and then really coordinating what we grow with what the markets want. As a company, we've been in production since 65. We started exports from Kenya in 1969, so almost 60 years now. We've been working in this business. And working with international markets, they tell you what you can identify the global demand. Number two, you really understand food safety and compliance because we ship to countries that are not so much into the... are moving out of the agriculture space, more into tech and manufacturing. So a lot of what we grow is really very safe to eat. It's available 52 weeks a year. And we really have to just make sure we do a very good crop rotation so we don't do the same crop over and over. And we basically will rotate a brassica with a legume. We'll come in with a different crop, a field crop comes through. So we have a lot of different things we do. With respect to pest pressure, we actually only have three or four different pests in Kenya that we have to worry about for our horticultural crops. And a lot of those can be either targeted using pesticides or you can be very smart and do an IPM program where we use integrated pest management and where we understand insects look at yellow and blue wavelengths and put sticky traps to move them off or we'll put trap crops and we'll come in with very, very soft insecticides and fungicides. So that's how we keep it sustainable. That's how we keep it long term. And then at the... And my last line there is to make sure we look after our soils. As long as our soils are very good organic matter and we don't build up disease, then we're really able to continue cropping in there. Thank you. Thank you, Tiku. A real pioneer for sustainable farming here in Kenya. If you're interested, please visit Tiku's farm in Navashanaku and you will see he actually... Can I use the word? Cultivate different kind of bugs to kill the insects. I have no background in real science. I'm an economist. But when I see those practices, I was truly amazed. So next, let's turn to another pioneer in the farming sector. Jahi Oliver, the CEO of... The CEO of Hello Tractor. So Hello Tractor is now pioneering the mechanization movement here in Africa. What's the impact in your mind of those, like new wave of mechanization towards sustainable farming? Is it good for it? Is it bad for it? What's the impact? What do you take? The impact of mechanization on farming? Yep. On sustainable farming. On sustainable farming. Well, I think it's important to first note that through mechanization, you plant 40 times faster and at a third of the cost. So there's an enormous draw towards mechanization from smallholder farmers. And when you have a platform that makes the service available, it becomes even more attractive because affordability is important. And with that large, well-coordinated and digitized network of farmers, you can now distribute all sorts of products and services to those farmers. Now, as far as sustainable farming is concerned, things like conservation agricultural equipment is expensive. And being able to amortize the cost of a no-till planter over 1,200 acres versus one farmer with two, three acres, and that's the average land size on our platform, bearing the full cost of that tractor and that $14,000 no-till planter is just far too much to ask. So I think the nexus between mechanization and conservation is really affordability and ensuring that you have the networks to amortize the costs of this expensive equipment over enough acres to make it affordable. And here's a real example. You know, the tractors that we deploy, we got 6,000-plus tractors and combines operating on our platform, touching, we're responsible for 5.5 million acres. That's a lot of land. And those tractors are working nonstop across those seasons that Tico mentioned to ensure that the tractor owner is earning the maximum amount for their asset, but that also brings affordability to the farmer, right? And a real example is, you know, the introductory technology to precision farming is auto steer. Now, if you buy an auto steer kit with your tractor on the cheapest side of the market, you're paying around $2,500 for that technology. So you can do precision application of your crop protection, your fertilizers to reduce nitrogen leaching and overuse of things like glyphosates. Through our platform, the cost of that technology is around 25 cents per acre, right? Versus literally thousands of dollars per acre. And that's the power of distribution and how you unlock value for conservation agriculture, but more broadly for the farmer's bottom line because that's what's going to pull all this technology into the market. Thank you, Jay Hill. So those two gentlemen, they may be more on the progressive perspective regards farming and sustainable farming. Let's hear something from more pro-environment, pro-biology side. So I'm really honored to invite Dr. Lin Shou Zhang, the director of UNEP, International Ecosystem Management Partnership, to share her point of view regarding sustainable farming and the importance of the environment. Thank you, Dr. Zhang. Please. Thank you very much, Dr. Chen. And I'm so happy to be here. Honored to speak, you know, from environmental aspect. But I myself is also an economist. So before I start my point, I would like to say a couple words about my organization because a lot of you have a very obvious name tab with your business. And UNEP International Ecosystem Management Partnership partnership actually is a joint venture between UNEP and Chinese Cardiff Sciences. So it's catalyzing China ecosystem research network expertise, trying to work in the areas of using ecosystem restoration and conservation for better ecosystem services, and to support the livelihood improvement in a changing climate. So it's all related. Agriculture is very important. So now back to my point, because I was listening earlier at the discussions about South-South cooperation and somehow, we are as UNEP's first collaborating center in the South and for the South. So we're truly a partnership center for the global South. What I wanted to start with, as we're talking about agriculture and sustainability, I wanted to draw your attention that the humanity is facing triple planetary crisis. Intensify the human activities, induce the emissions causing climate change, and also ecosystem degradation, especially biodiversity losses, and then agriculture biodiversity is a very important aspect of it. And then pollution. So all those planetary crises had a very close link with agriculture sector, with farming. So while we're talking about collaboration, we should not only focus on productivity enhancement, we should also, you know, think about copper, this triple planetary crisis is also something we need to address, along with this, you know, collaboration. That's why, actually, I named my innovation, like, beyond agricultural technology, but I think it's more than just agricultural technology that we think about it, more than productivity. So that's the first point I think we need to keep in mind whenever we're talking about collaboration, cooperation. But I also like to use this opportunity to offer three points where it's not about agricultural technology, but it also helps enhance agricultural and farming system resilience and also, you know, for kind of climate change adaptation. First, while we're talking about production enhancement, we had a study that if we could improve the dietary health, that could also yield multiple benefits, reducing the cash expenditure, but also reduce the emission. And we had published the papers on that. The second is that empowering women could yield synergy of SDGs. We had a study in five Asian countries. If women farmers gave in the rights for decision-making crop production, they would also increase the dietary diversity and increase the food and nutrition and health at home. At the same time, they know what to grow and what to consume. So this really reaches the synergy of different SDGs, gender equity, health improvement, also like productivity enhancement. The last one, what I wanted to say is while we are talking about modern technologies and for sustainability, we must protect and conserve traditional land raises wherever we go and empowering local communities because they are the custodian of those local varieties. So with that, I wanted to conclude my first part of the intervention. So beyond agricultural technology. Thank you. Thank you, Dr. Zhang. Wow. I really appreciate your very comprehensive and systematic approach towards this critical for humankind. Jehu just mentioned precision farming. And now we have another champion, the precision farming. We have Michael Dai representing DGI agricultural drones for Africa. So, Michael, what's your point of view about precision farming, drone farming regards sustainability? You're taking jobs from Africa. Is that right? Yeah. Thank you, Dr. Chen. And I just give one brief instruction about the DGI agricultural drone. So I think today, all the guests who know that from the drone, agricultural drone business, actually, we start this business from 2016. I think it's just less than 10 years. Until the end of 2024, we already, you know, operate almost 250 million acres worldwide. So yearly, we operate 250 million worldwide. Second, we have now 400K, means 400,000, agricultural drone worldwide operation now. And we operate in 100 countries and 300 crops. And I just give a typical in China that right now we have 400K, almost 400,000 pilots in the agricultural drone business. So we also have the planning to training every year 2,000 young pilots in Africa. Start from 2015. So I see also today many young students from Nairobi University. I encourage you also to be joined with us on our journey. Thank you, Dr. Chen. Absolutely, Michael. So, DGI and AGRA, we've been talking about to set up the first academy for drone, agricultural drone pilots here in Kenya, but covering whole East Africa. We plan to train thousands of young East Africans to serve their own country in the agricultural sector. I asked the question about is drone farming really taking away the jobs? But I want you to know one thing. Just go out to see their booth right over there. For that kind, that size of the machine, it's not like a small toy you can play on your phone with the app. It literally requires at least two or three engineering, sorry, engineers to maintain it, to operate it. So one drone might bring three to four direct employment. And those are high-paid, high-tech jobs for Africans. So, Michael, I answered that question for you. Yeah, because it is just when we talk about Dr. Chen, Dr. Chen is a little bit worried about, you know, this kind of technology implementing Africans. Because it said, Michael, please, slowly, because you may lose job. Yes, yes, to protect small holding farming system, to protect jobs, to increase jobs, is the most important work for Agra. Okay. Our Agra, every day, we try to ensure that. So, next, so, it's all about sustainable farming. And I just mentioned the Green Revolution. how can we continue the discussion without the perspective from the evil side, from the input, agri-input manufacturers. So, how about we get some takeaway from Mr. Fan Wenbo from Hubei Xinfa Group, one of the largest agri-input producers in the world. What's your takeaway regards agricultural inputs and sustainable farming? Please. Thank you. Thank you, Dr. Chen, for your invitation by the repetition of Xinfa Group to join this wonderful forum. Please allow me to just take a few moments to introduce Xinfa Group because I think majority of our, of you don't know this group. Xinfa Group is located in Yichang, Hubei province in China. is the largest glyphosate manufacturer in China and we have 23,000 metric tons capacity and we do have 24D and the nickel software technical manufacturing in Yichang and we currently operating our sales platform in Ghana and Nigeria in Africa. For East Africa we have not come yet. We plan to and I during my experience in West Africa I realized we talk a lot of East Africa actually maybe West Africa this forum maybe next time you can try to come to West Africa. I think West Africa need this kind of forum more more serious because the during the almost 20 years experience in West Africa countries I think the most challenge of for for agricultural in Africa the first one is farmers educational background I me myself I've seen farmers use their own hand to mix chemicals with water and I also saw some combine harvest operators when they were doing maize harvesting some stick like our arm has also gone into the system maybe we Chinese it's difficult for us to imagine that rice can go into the engine of the combine harvest but it's happening in Africa so I was happy to have heard some institutes cooperation between China and Africa agriculture it's very good it's a very good way to educate and to to train more operators even from Dajian to train more operators not only the tractor but also combine harvest and drone operators which is very important secondly I think for pesticide and fertilizer regulation in Africa has some gap to be improved because especially in West Africa counterfeiting and low active ingredients pesticide actually is a serious problem in West Africa but I think East Africa has done much better because the regulation and regulators have done their work very well so we need this forum in West Africa thank you thank you thank you Mr. Fan and about West Africa I must deny any neglect of Agra for West Africa because in the coming September the African Food System Forum the largest agricultural event in Africa the flagship event of Agra will take place in Dakar Senegal and I will make sure SINFA group and to speak over there to the audience and I really like your challenging ideas we have to challenge each other we have to challenge everybody so that we can get the true knowledge right so we talk about sustainable farming but in China we call it like big wheel like larger wheel of food in Agra we talk about the food system perspectives so actually farming is a very long value chain without post-harvest management non-farming is physically sustainable actually right so today we are very honored to have Yongle group Yongle company to join us we have Mr. Wang and I understand Yongle has been manufacturing like storage like grain storage equipment and oil processing equipment and all kind of grain processing equipment for decades long and have you been exporting to Africa what's your experience so far regards exporting to Africa thank you thank you Mr. Chen thank you for me to join this discussion I'd like to do a self introduction we are coming from the from the group our company was built in 1967 also in the year of 2003 we have changed us to a shareholding company we are mainly doing about manufacturing the regional product drying reservation and oil production and other related mix of the animal feeding products and poultry related cycling development related to agriculture this morning this afternoon we have talked about the safety storage of the grains and food feeding for the animals industry so I would like to mention about the oil product I see in the area of Kenya we are using wheat rice and maize for China we put all those agriculture to the optimized maximum to the rich food like rice that cannot be directly eaten by human being because they have some oil fat inside we can get the usable oil from those products that people cannot directly take and to make them into the nutrition that people can take directly such as the mikan oil is like the side coated of the rice like in the past time of China we always after we harvest the rice we just remove the shell of it and throw to the food of the animal feedings but now we collect them and we make them optimized to the benefit let those oil and fat to be diversified to different ways of consuming not only like the bean oil or peanut oil there are also other types of crops so I think we have time for the second round of questions this will be very quick I really hope simple precise and quick take away the biggest challenge for sustainable farming no matter in Africa or in China from all the panelists please from you Tiku thanks I think now that we are all in the mood and we heard about sustainable farming let's throw a screwball into this audience right sustainable everybody talks about sustainable farming everybody talks about small holders everybody talks about gender equality everybody talks about how are we going to do this let's be very clear for small holders in Africa it has to be profitable if there's no profitability we can forget about all our conversations about sustainability it has to make money okay once you have funding once you have money then you are able to start talking about sustainability we are able to talk about mechanization we are able to talk about drones all that will come into place we have to talk about value addition in Kenya because that's where we are at the moment only 3 to 4 percent of all funding that the banks give out goes to agriculture more money has gone into Uber in the last 10 years than has gone into agriculture in Africa in the last 50 years so we can sit here and talk about sustainability but if it's not going to be profitable we will continue having these conversations for the next 20 years so how do we make agriculture profitable for Africa how do we bring value addition here how do we bring back technology transfer that's what we have to talk about that's where the conversations need to start around how do we make it profitable then we can move on to everything else because I can afford to use Michael's drones I can bring your tractors on to do things but we are talking the majority of our farmers are smallholder how do we give them access to these tools how do we give them access to something as simple as crop insurance our governments don't have the funding to be able to subsidize and support smallholders 25 percent of Kenya's agriculture is based around smallholders our GDP is 25 percent as well how do we get to that level that's what we need to talk about and that's so important Dr. Cheng you really have to bring that up while we bring these new ideas onto the table as well thank you Tiku you sounds more Tiku you sounds more like economists than I do so what's your takeaway what's the biggest challenge for what's the biggest challenge for sustainable farming here in Africa well I mean Tiku cover finance I think finance is also tightly coupled with risk and risk management and most of the bread basket regions where commercial where agriculture is commercially traded things like crop insurance tend to be heavily subsidized which I think is an indirect way to make financing more affordable maybe I'll talk about there being a lack of awareness at the consumer level at the retail levels to demand cleaner foods I've been living in Kenya for seven years there's a lot of issues around fresh vegetables with you know chemical residues because of the improper application of these chemicals and without demand in the market there is no market and so I think for domestic opportunities to really be unlocked you need to have more pull in the market at the consumer level and then of course the financing the risk management tighter regulations which I know Agra works quite a bit on to make sure the right products are being applied in the fields responsibly and I think wherever conservation works governments are very involved I don't think I don't know of any examples where conservation agriculture is happening at scale where governments weren't the tip of the spear so I also think there's a huge public role to play and I think there's a vibrant private sector that is just really waiting for these opportunities to scale these best practices there are examples on this stage of where that's happening but for it to happen at scale and transform the African food system you need that public sector investment yes money money money unfortunately money is the biggest limit for agricultural food system development here in Africa Jahil and I we traveled to China last year for the mechanization coalition and we were there trying to study the experiences from China about their mechanization in agriculture and we found out that to buy one tractor in China the buyer the end user the farmers will receive nearly 50% of subsidy from the government and it's very hard to replicate that here in Africa we have to find more innovative ways right so to Dr. John what's your take about the biggest threat to sustainability here in Africa biggest threat I don't know whether I'm talking about biggest threat I was thinking about I think in order to make the corporation successful and effective we must call for multi-stakeholder collaboration because right now if we are business people profit is the main kind of drive but there are functions that the public sector need to get in so we have to get government you know Schengen is here we worked on public investment and returns to you know to public investment we found road and education electricity irrigation a lot of those infrastructure improvement need government to get in so when the business goes and the government need to be and that's what I think it's my first call and second I wanted to say it's not the challenge but it's I want to say whenever we talk about collaboration or agriculture or sustainable agriculture whatever we talk about we have to keep in mind of what I say the triple planet crisis so enhancing food system resilience must be one of the objectives whatever collaboration we're talking about because as the last parallelization says business as usual will not work the way we produce food at current state is no longer sustainable so that's a conclusion so we need to look for new ways of improving or transforming food system making it more resilient to whatever whether it's natural or economical or global challenges or whatever so that's the two points I want to make bravo bravo fantastic points and I think those three panelists all mentioned public spending like finance de-risking everything I just want to mention that Africa African we are trying 20 years ago we issued the malaabo declaration we promised 2% GDP investment into agricultural and last year we have the reinforced malaabo declaration this time in Uganda and African Union Agra and all our partners we have a grand big vision for system development and if everything really works as we planned we may be able to achieve a 45% increase in the next 15 years I understand it's very ambitious but like I said if everything or shipping all the resources shipping we may be able to achieve that and apparently public spending is a very critical point in that so Michael what's your thing what's the biggest challenge for sustainable farming you can talk about Africa you can talk about China or you can talk about Middle East you work in Middle East as well right Middle East don't have agriculture I do agree just now Mr. Tiku he mentioned about challenging regarding sustainability agriculture yeah go back to Africa I think right now we have almost 20 dealers in Africa by now and those dealers right now they are mostly focused about the large scale farmer because the smaller scale farmer like less than five acres they are not even afford to buy the and even they are not afford to buy the service for example right now for example they give the service for like one acre around like 500 shilling so it's quite challenging for them so I think from our side we just want to make sure that you know to partner with some of the local partners like Hello Tractor to use his platform we give tools to the small and medium farmer a way to reach the technology I think in the last conversation your colleague Mr. Jane he mentioned about the challenging between Africa China in the last 20 years why cannot make the big difference I think there's many reasons for the difference but in the next 20 years I think there's one key way to accelerate the speed I think the only thing is technology because only to use technology can reach the speed between China and Africa I think this is the job which we are doing now and also Hello Tractor is heavily involved in that thank you thank you Michael let's refer back to Xinfar to Wenbo you just mentioned what happened in West Africa like farmers would actually plant fertilizer by hand that sounds scary but beyond that anything more systematic about the challenge of sustainable farming in Africa in your point of view you've been working in Africa for 20 years I think today the more and more educated farmers in Africa are joining the farming field I think it's a very good sign it's a very good sign that this operators for farming with high SKU to avoid those kind of low level operating from happening it's a very good sign but what we do is that I recently I had an idea actually earlier I mentioned the woman who used her hand to mix agrochemicals she put that video at her own TikTok platform to teach farmers to use that way to spread and she do have more than 10 ton of followers on her account so it's when we saw the video we really thought that actually TikTok is a very good self media is a very good channel for us to teach them how to correctly using the pesticide and fertilizer and even machinery so we immediately actually try to buy some drawers and good cameras to start to take some video try to make it popular and to teach them the way of correctly using the agrochemicals and fertilizer and also combine harvest tractors I think it's a very good efficiency and the good points you mentioned money money money this is low cost low cost way of teaching them since they have followers thank you thank you it's actually a very good idea also for next year's forum okay I promise I will get tiktok to come maybe we can have tiktok to set up like training channels for young people of like do not blend chemicals with bare hand something like very fundamental but practical content maybe we can work with them yeah yeah absolutely so let's shift it to Xiefei Wang so please allow me to shift to Chinese sorry Wang so you would you like to tell us about the Africa country which country you are focusing on in Africa what kind of product you are exporting to them the it is many in Kenya we have part of our business here and other related country near Kenya about the oil and the fat equipment like refining and distilling and also the origin product reservation equipment yesterday I was saying in local place in Kenya there are so many poultry such as sheep and cow they are feeding spartily the food they are eating are the grass on the road some of them have the plastic bag within them it is really poisonous to them so when those animals eat it it will go inside the body when the time you slaughter those animals it will be inside of their meat or inside of the intestines it is not good for health for people if we can breed them all together or gather several farmers together to do one unified business of feeding them like the crop after it's being harvested the remaining part of it we mix them to be food for the animal even like the poop of the animal make them reuse to chemical fat or fertilizer that can be a cycling system so it's more healthy thank you so as time is ticking I would like to maybe open the floor for a little bit does anyone have any questions for any of these panelists and you can pinpoint to them and write your question we can have one or two this lady on the back please David please nominate who you want to address the question good afternoon I'm from Sotac Green Energy Tianjin and I would like to ask a question to Ms. Zhang from UNEP how do you think the green energy renewable energy combination with sustainable agriculture how is the contribution from renewable energy to sustainable agriculture and how is the current status for Kenya or for Africa for such combination the actual and tangible status I think one of the pressure for the traditional energy is that where possible renewable energy should be used I think China is one of those who use the and now China use the solar energy or somehow I think in some of the I know Kenya and several households or some households are using solar panels to replace electricity in the form of grid electricity as renewable energy because I don't know very much in detail about Africa but I know in some of our project sites in Kisumu area when there is a flood or somehow there is power cuts I guess this could be like a solar panel and those could be one of the way of replacing that grid but again they need initial investment so money need to be there so it's not that easy way to ship there but now there's another discussion going on when we talk about sustainable agriculture I think circularity that concept is coming back again so China traditionally use organic manure to be the fertilizer to apply to the paddy field or the crop production and then residues and coming back to that cycle and because of the increased labor cost in China a lot of places don't produce pigs anymore at the backyard so now it's a large kind of farming a livestock farming I guess sometimes here we could consider some of those promoting some security but I'm responding on top of my head because I don't have investigations in detail in this area how many houses are raising livestock somehow to make a security happening I guess it's very difficult because it's also time consuming and there's a high labor cost involved that was one of the reasons China rural farmers stopped using because the labor opportunity costs were high so all in all I don't have a response to it but I think we really have to think about it in a system way because you offer one solution you might end up with another issue or limitation that's why whenever I talk about system thinking and nexus approach it had always been in my mind when we are trying to intervention and trying to bring in some technology somehow if you don't think about it as a system it's very difficult to understand why good technologies could not be adapted in so and so area so all those need to be taken into consideration I'm not sure I responded to all your questions but I think one of the at the macro level energy transition is one of the ways that pushing for adapting to climate change because we're trying to cut the emissions and we try not to extract too much of the natural resources and make it more sustainable and leave something for the next generations or so on but that's at large but the local specificity is a completely different picture we have to be case by case and tailored to the local context thank you thank you very much Dr. Zhang and I would like to thank all the audience coming over for our boring discussions and I want to thank you all the panelists to spend your valuable time joining us for this session and I want to thank you for the Mr. Huang Mr. Xi at the corner over there let's applaud for them they make this whole day you've been successful and beyond that another applaud for our very hard working temperature team thank you very much and I believe that of what what you have wanted to read what how what you make Thank you.