'It's not easy running a farm machinery dealership; there are big costs'
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUIvttCTRr4
News & Politics
 I'm Conor Breen from Breen's Farm Machinery. I'm the dealer principal. We've been in business here in Cashel since January of 1977 and over the years we've expanded our business here and in 2014 we moved to Ennis. In the early days we took on Renault in 1993 and made a phenomenal success with it and we still have a lot of those tractors out working today even though that they're in excess of 20-25 years old. In 2002 we took on the Class franchise. As most people know Class bought out Renault in 2003 and we migrated on from there. In 2008 we expanded by taking on the Coochie range of diggers. It has been very successful for us but we also have a lot of other prime brands like Redrock, Trio Lay. Most recently this year we signed up with Schaefer and then Hustler from New Zealand. Well Schaefer, I suppose there's two strengths of Schaefer. As you see inside the Shoreham we have the industrial line which is the yellow line and then the red machines are the ag machines. With the ag machines we would feel that customers with the price of new tractors being in excess of 100,000 that now they're looking at the option of buying a loader where it's primarily that they're using the machine for loading which will give them longevity towards the use of a tractor and loader and so forth. This year we signed up with Hustler from New Zealand. We got our first two containers in a couple of weeks ago. It's a quality product and it's an option towards a dye feeder. There's a lot of customers that are using bales for second cut and so forth so the demands, labour intensity and so forth, they're looking for a cheaper option than a dye feeder and we think that Hustler is that solution. 2019 has been a very difficult year for farmers. We all know that but the wheel never says at six o'clock, it always rises and I think that when you get a couple of difficult years the people involved in agriculture are made of resilience the strongest dealers there and I think going forward prices will rise. Hopefully milk prices will stay somewhere where they are or even increase a little bit hopefully and the tillage man definitely needs a lift so all in all I think the next couple of years again there should be plenty of business being done. It's not easy, it's not easy to run the farm machinery dealership. There's big demands, there's big costs running the farm machinery dealership as every farm machinery dealer knows but I suppose when you deal local and you get the service and backup from the people that you know it's a big plus.