Unfiltered: 24 Hours On A 4th Generation Dairy Farm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BvS_m8xKunI
Travel & Events
 How do I do it? Lift it up. Put it in under there. Lift the cup. I'm not going to kick me in the face. I'm not going to kick me in the face. It's too far from the kitchen. There he is in there. There he is. Oh, that was pissing. That is some talk behind it. How's this tree my mates dad planted 40 years ago? That big. Created his own little ecosystem. Had a pretty chill morning. Didn't worry about breakfast or anything. We're going to a lookout 15 minutes away. That looks over the wetlands of the Murray River. And if the wind's not too bad, which I've got a feeling it's going to be pretty bad, we might get the drone up. Inhale. Inhale. Inhale. Inhale. Inhale. Inhale. This place surrounded by the Mound Bay This place is named Lodan Good work Good work Another wonderful place with the Among D vicinity all right today has been pretty full on we've recorded as much as we can we've just been on a dairy farm one of my mates owns a dairy farm so he's pretty much taken us on a full tour then we just went on the we've done the whole process of bringing the cows in which i got wicked drone footage so chuck that in right now so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so this is a hydraulic lever which lets the cows out yeah it fills up that with grain and then it drops back down ready for the next lot to come through this is the freaky part have a look at this they just know exactly what to do boom that is not a broken hose that is piss straight out of the udder can't get much raw or milk than that so so so so safe to say we run over a landmine watch out fresh out of dylan's chooks bums can you get better than this second camp up that we make dairy farm got our own patch of lawn cows are on their way in now some fresh eggs beef and lamb patties watching the cows walk into the dairy shout out to dylan for the fresh eggs straight out of the uh what do you call them kennel full farm camp cook up they're your cows aren't they jesse yes they're straight off straight out of the paddock straight on the grill all of spams put on you