Using climate-smart technologies to scale up climate-smart agriculture practices
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BxQN3JSGV2E
Nonprofits & Activism
 Henry Neufeldt Reviewer Good afternoon. My name is Henry Neufeldt. I'm head of the Climate Change Unit at the World Agroforestry Center, ICRAF, in Nairobi, Kenya. And I welcome you very much to this discussion forum organized by ICRAF together with FAO. And while we start going through a quick round of introductions, I hope that there will be more people coming in so that we take as much time as we can for discussions afterwards. The title of this session is called Using Climate Smart Technologies to Scale Up Climate Smart Agriculture. And forget the practices, it's a bit of a tautology, and I apologize. Climate Smart Agriculture has had quite a bit of a, let's say, it's been a very shiny kind of brand coming up. It's managed to unite sort of the development, the agriculture, and the climate change communities under one brand. And in doing so, it's raised a lot of expectations. The term has been around for about four or five years. There are a couple of publications that have been put forward around climate smart agriculture, what it really is, what it could be, and still we lack, we still do lack a bit of an understanding of what it could actually do. And this session here is also meant to shed a bit of light on that question. There has been a global alliance for climate smart agriculture, which was launched recently at the Climate Change Summit in September in New York. There was also, there's also an African alliance for climate smart agriculture, and we will also talk about these two new institutions and what they can potentially deliver in resolving issues around food security, adaptation and mitigation. So, let me just quickly introduce our speakers. First, we have Alexandre Maybeck, who is a senior policy officer on agriculture, environment and climate change in the office of the assistant director general within the FAO. Then our second keynote speaker is Todd Rosenstock, who is an agroecologist with ICRAF, and he investigates how smallholder agriculture affects the environment and society. And then we have panelists here sitting next to me. We have here, sorry, where is she? I'm sorry, I can't get the name right, Nguenya, I think. She's a manager for communications and knowledge at FANRPAN, the Food, Agriculture and Natural Resources Policy Analysis Network, with 21 years of experience in policy research and advocacy. Then we have Martin Bwalia, he's the head of the comprehensive agriculture, Africa Agriculture Development Program, CADAP, within NIPAD. And finally, last but not least, Austin Thibault, he's been working as a land resources conservation officer at Malawi's Ministry of Agriculture, Irrigation and Water for over 10 years, and he's also the FAO focal point for economics and policy innovations for CSA in the EPEC program. And then we will have Richie Ahuja, who is sitting here in front. He is an expert in business development strategies and spearheads, the Environmental Defense Fund's engagement in Asia. He will be rapporteuring, he will give us a short summary at the end of the session. So, without losing any more time, I'm going to ask Alexandre to say a few words about what climate-smart agriculture is, some backgrounds, opportunities and challenges, and then we'll hear what Todd has to say about climate-smart agriculture, a panacea or propaganda. Okay, please, Alexandre. Thank you very much. And, yeah, move that. Yeah. So, I will very briefly introduce or reintroduce for those of you who already know what climate-smart agriculture is, what the way we understand climate-smart agriculture in FAO, which can be slightly different from some of the things that are around more and more. And just extremely briefly giving examples, because examples is probably the best way to understand what climate-smart agriculture could mean. So, once again, agriculture has to address a triple challenge, more food in quantity, quality and diversity everywhere for everyone, adapt to climate change and contribute to mitigate climate change. The important point, I think, is that this triple challenge has to be seen at very, various scales, global, local and household. And we always need to keep in mind these various scales when you look at systems and what can be their contributions to climate-smart agriculture. Growing demand all over the world due also to diet changes, but especially in some countries and many of these countries, which are already food insecure and which will be the most affected by climate change. And globally, worldwide, FAO estimates that production has to increase by 60%. Very briefly, main effects of climate change on agricultural production, a decrease of production in certain areas, a change in the geography of production between countries and inside countries, and also and especially an increased variability of production. So, the impacts on food and nutrition security have been well described in the HLP report in 2012, and now in the IPCC report recently released, with impacts on the most vulnerable countries and the most vulnerable people, mainly. And with impacts on food security and nutrition, which are much more than just decreasing yields. Decreasing yields and the consequences of decreasing yields. Changes of the geography of production and so vulnerable countries having to import and price volatility and the combination of all these effects. So, agriculture can also contribute to mitigate and the way we see it in FAO, given the fact that agriculture has to produce more, is to understand mitigation as a reduction of emissions per kilo of output. Globally, having emissions increasing less than production. And also, enhanced agricultural soil carbon sinks, which means sinks above and underground. So, the concept has first been introduced in 2010. It's with the title of a brochure that FAO prepared for the Hague Conference. One, so it's amazing how the word is now all over the place, probably because this idea that we need to address various objectives at farm level, at country level, and globally, is really needed. And also, one other important point about the climate-smart agriculture approach is that it is not only practices or systems, but also systems from an agronomic point of view, but also the policies and institutions and the finance, which are necessary to enable these changes. So, it's really the three of them. To a certain extent, I don't know what is a climate-smart technology. I'd rather think about climate-smart systems. And when you try to take these three objectives together, food security, adaptation and mitigation, globally, what we want to do is more resource-efficient systems and more resilient systems. But be also careful to what we want to mean by resource-efficient systems. It's not only more crop per drop, it's also more income per drop, more jobs per drop in the countries where agriculture is the main source of jobs and income for the population. Which means that it is very country, local, system-specific, the way you imagine the technologies and the way they are integrated in a system. Globally, what we think is that the trade-offs are not really between food security and mitigation or food security and adaptation, but rather between increasing resource efficiency and increasing resilience. And this is where you have to look at trade-offs and synergies. An important point, which is why I was insisting on the various levels in the system, is that we need to increase the general resilience of food systems, which means the physical resilience, environmental, but also the economic and social resilience of the system. One of these dimensions being able to compensate for a certain time, but not for a very long time. But for instance, social protection can help farmers resist physical shock, avoid them selling all their livestock, for instance, and enable them to recover afterwards. But resilience has also to be seen at various levels, each level being able to compensate for another. The resilience of a household depends also on the fact that they are diversified sources of income, but also it can be compensated by social protection, for instance. Trade can play a role to a certain extent, provided that there is income. So that's why we were insisting on the need to understand how the various systems relate one to another. household to the farm, the farm to the landscape, the farm to the food chain, and all of that constitutes various food systems. So really very, very quickly, and you'll hear much more about it after me, understanding climate-smart agriculture has to be done on the ground in the field in real systems. So these are just examples of a brochure you'll found downstairs, where we tried to look at the various dimensions of the impact of a technique. In other words, and to come back to the title of my presentation, we believe that there are opportunities to have climate-smart systems more efficient and more resilient. But the challenge is to be able to properly measure the various impacts of the techniques, both environmentally, economically, and socially, and in various time frames. And these are very different according to the system. It's not the same if you introduce urea-deplacement in Bangladesh, where jobs are very low-cost, and you need more jobs. And in China, for instance, where labor is much more costly, so you need mechanized systems. And the impact on food security will be totally different in the various systems. And very often what happens is that, which is where climate-smart agriculture makes the change, we've introduced a technology for a precise objective, and we measure that precise objective. We have the baseline on water, and we measure how water is used. Very often we don't have the impact on economics, on livelihoods, on income, on social issues, on gender sensitivity, etc. So these are some cases where we have them. Sustainable grazing for better livelihoods in China. This is an interesting project because in the beginning it was introduced as a mitigation project to increase carbon sinks. But in fact, it is totally transforming the systems and the livelihood of the people, and it's much more a food security and an adaptation project, with a carbon finance component, but it is this carbon finance component which began triggering the institutional changes. You'll hear probably more about these afterwards. So we've been talking about this. We're talking about the importance of the importance of the importance of climate-smart agriculture. Just as an example of things that we need in order to be able to react to uncertainties. And this is another very important dimension of climate-smart agriculture. When we say increasing resilience, we mean resilience to everything, because we do not know exactly what are going to be the changes in 30 or 40 years in whatever area. Landscape approach is also a key one. I've already mentioned that one. And I will stop here to leave the floor to my colleague. Thank you. So what I'm going to be talking about today is trying to answer... Ooh, it's cut off. Hopefully not all of the slides are like that. What I'll be talking about today is trying to answer this simple or somewhat complicated question, climate-smart agriculture or propaganda or panacea. And here, like this title slide, this question is incredibly complicated, especially for climate-smart agriculture. Because with climate-smart agriculture, what we're talking about in many cases is multiple dimensions. We're talking about multiple practices. Here you can see it's agroforestry, intercropping, conservation agriculture, improved cookstoves, as well as multiple outcomes. So we're looking at nutrition security. We're looking at poverty alleviation. We're looking at natural resource management. And so how do we even begin to think about and begin to analyze this type of complexity? I would intend that it's this type of complexity that has largely made and helped spur the debate about whether or not climate-smart agriculture can actually achieve some of its ambitions. And it's because of this we need to pull back from some of the sort of idiosyncratic case studies and try to get to the real big issues that we can then start to bring these topics to scale. So over the next about 10 minutes or so, I'm going to be telling you about the initial results from a meta-analysis that we've been conducting about specifically to try to answer the question of how do farm management practices affect food security at an adaptive capacity and mitigation. And so I was sort of inspired to take on this topic largely because I was seeing things like this in the news. The Global Alliance for CSA wants to reach 500 million smallholder farming households. The African CSA Alliance and the NEPAD Vision 25 by 25 want to enrich 25 million households by 2025. This type of effort will require a Herculean change in how we as scientists and we as development practitioners actually implement agricultural development. And so, but the real question here is what is the evidence base? So, a lot of this type of development initiatives is fundamentally based on the assumption that we have evidence for that improved practices, CSA, will improve food security, adaptive capacity, and mitigation objectives. Well, and also it's based on the fundamental assumption that we have some idea about the synergies and trade-offs between these different components. And so what have we been doing so far? We've been trying to make a sense of essentially what is a pile of disparate literature. And so we've been doing a meta-analysis and a systematic review of 65 practices and 15 indicators. And so when I say practices, we're not talking about the aggregate level of agroforestry. We're talking about things that farmers actually implement on the ground. Leguminous and intercropped agroforestry. And deep placement of urea. Things that farmers would actually need that you can analyze individually and then also aggregate back up. When I talk about indicators, these are indicators of food security, adaptive capacity, or mitigation. For food security, we're looking at four main indicator categories, ranging from income, productivity, and such. In terms of adaptive capacity, obviously this is the hardest one. We're thinking about things like soil quality. We're thinking about gender differentiated labor. We're thinking about nutrient use efficiency, water use efficiency, and things like that. Mitigation is a little bit more straightforward. Carbon sequestration, greenhouse gas intensity, and the like. And so what we've done is essentially we utilize discipline-oriented keyword searches in the Web of Science database. And we came up with 144,000 candidate papers. And with the help of a small team of master's level students, including Helena, who's in the audience here today, we went through all 144,000 papers and tried to see how they matched our inclusion criteria. So here we were interested in whether or not they had information and data on a CSA practice and a non-CSA control, as well as whether or not they took place in a tropical developing country. So from that 144,000, we narrowed in reading those abstracts, we narrowed it down to about 16,000 papers. And those papers we then downloaded the full text and further analyzed them to see if they met our inclusion criteria. That left us with 6,000 papers in which we had to actually extract data from that we thought were relevant to answering our main question, which is climate-smart agriculture panacea propaganda, or in other words, what is the evidence based behind climate-smart agriculture? So far we've extracted data on about 20% of that. And so I'll be talking about that. Based on the numbers that we've already extracted, we presume that in the end this database, which will be hopefully ready by the Montpellier CSA conference, if not a little bit later on in the year, we'll have about 120,000 individual data points in it. Okay? And so if we just start to map where the studies have taken place to see where and how and what information is available, these are the studies that we have. This is a random sample from our 1,200 studies that we've already looked at, where they are actually located on the map. And these studies have, they're talking about at least one indicator relevant for food security, adaptive capacity, or mitigation. You see that it's a pretty good global distribution. But if you look a little closer, you also see that there is some geographic clustering. That you see that in Western Kenya and maybe around Accra in Ghana, there's actually quite a number of studies that are in a relatively small location. So what does that mean for when we're trying to scale Climate Smart Agriculture? Well, what it means is, or what it suggests at this point, is that we may have a biased data set, that our information base may be in our accurate to be able to say that this type of practice will have this type of outcome in a new location. When we then go to studies that have two practices, or two, that address two components of CSA, like food security and adaptation in the same study, the size of the data set reduces dramatically. We basically lose 60% of the studies. And so why is that important? That's important because what we know from about 50 years of agricultural research and agricultural development research, is that a lot of time interventions are place-based. So we can't presume that the types of interventions and the types of outcomes that we might see in one location are going to be able to be extrapolated to another location quite easily. And so these synergies and trade-offs may not actually be transmissible. And lastly, if we look at studies where we have all three indicators, may probably, given this projector, you might not even see any up there. But there's just seven dots. So we basically reduced it to less than 1% of the studies looked at all three components of CSA in the same study. And this is important simply because it greatly reduces our ability to characterize what is normally thought of within climate-smart agriculture, which are these triple wins, these win-win-wins. When we start to look at the data and actually use common meta-analytical techniques, so this is the food security response across multiple indicators for six different practices at different aggregated levels. And that sounds a little complicated, but let me go into a little bit more detail. And so this is an effect size. So an effect size measures the relative effect of the treatment to the control. And so anything to the right of that red line is a positive effect. Anything to the left of that line is going to be a negative effect. If it crosses that line, it's not significantly different than zero, and you may have positive or negative effects. And so basically what you see here is that there's not only a wide variability for any given practice, for instance in agroforestry, but there are some clear winners. The use of inorganic fertilizer seems to be quite positive. The use of increasing protein in livestock feeds as well. The interesting part is that in most cases people are talking about climate smart agriculture at a very aggregate level. They're talking about agroforestry as climate smart. Well, as you can see in these top two panels, once you start disaggregating the data from agroforestry to actually leguminous agroforestry, the actual effect changes. And so I would argue that you would need to actually begin to think about it in this more disaggregate level when you're identifying things as climate smart. And lastly, let's look quickly at some synergies and some trade-offs. And so this is just the synergies and trade-offs for the adaptation and food security indicators that are in a 130 random sample of 130 studies. So as you can see, there are only 55 comparisons in that 130 studies, so that's back to the about 60% decline that I mentioned earlier. And everything in the red box in the lower left-hand corner is where you don't want to be. This is lose-lose. So about 6% of the studies showed that there were lose-lose effects between adaptation and food security. And the opposite quarter in Cata Cornia, there's about 32% of them showed that there were actually synergies. So this is what everybody is saying is possible with climate smart agriculture. But equally important, 60% of the studies that we looked at, and granted it is a small data set at this point, shows that there's equal or more likely chance of actual trade-offs between adaptation and food security than there are synergies. And so while today I just really focused on a very small amount of our initial data, the emerging trends seem to be somewhat clear, that there's geographic clustering of the studies, which would suggest that we have challenges in actually extrapolating the data. There is a likelihood that we will see trade-offs as much as we would see synergies, as well as that there's large variability amongst and within individual practices. Thanks. Okay, thank you. So before we go to some questions, we'll have another round of panelists giving their sort of views on what they've just heard, also just making some statements in regard to, let's say, the alliance here. So let's start off with Martin and then Lamy and Austin in that order. And I'll ask you to be fairly brief so that we have as much time as possible for questions and answers where you can sort of elaborate more on any issues you might want to raise. Okay? So Martin, you want to kick us off, please? Thank you very much. Okay, yes. Thank you so much, moderator Henley. Yes, I'm going to be very brief. And thank you so much to the two presentations. I think they do give us very good scope in terms of the discussion. Now, and I pick it up from the messages, key messages out of the two presentations. And I would say, is it possible looking at what we've just heard in terms of what is climate-smart agriculture? Is it possible then or is it correct to say that, in fact, climate-smart agriculture is just any good agricultural practices? Anything that is actually good and underlined the word good is going to give us productivity, food security, is going to give us adaptation, is going to give us mitigation value. And sometimes when you look back into what we have described and what we've known as good agricultural farming, when we say climate-smart agriculture, are we saying anything different? What is new in this? And I start by saying that, yes, in fact, there is something new. There is something different. One of the first important issues is that in dealing with and talking about climate-smart agriculture, we want to go beyond just the issue of securing productivity. So this is more than just productivity issue. There is something that is actually very, very clear about the threats that climate change, all the opportunities that climate change bring on the whole spectrum and space and productivity and on the food systems. So you're looking at everything that we're doing in terms of farming practices or what you call agriculture, and look at how far is it going to support enhancing ability to deal with the new emerging trends and threats opportunities that are very specific to the occurrence of climate change, climate variability. And this, again, is about understanding the actual risks which are actually very localized, is appreciating the actual opportunities that you attribute to that climate change. The second point I want to make is that when you look at climate-smart agriculture in terms of what is different, and in terms of what is different, and in terms of what is different, and in terms of what practices is actually that is something that is compelling beyond. We talk about holistic, comprehensive approaches, but in climate-smart agriculture, we are seeing a very practical compare to look at agriculture, to look at farming in a very, very integrated, holistic, and I like what the moderator was saying in the beginning, that is more than just climate-smart technologies, but that we look at climate-smart systems, because it's about practices, it's about policies and institutions, as mentioned, resources, but it's also about managing the trade-offs in terms of different constituencies, but also the trade-offs in time and space. So what are we doing today vis-à-vis what are the needs, requirements of future scenarios? And the last and the third point in terms of the practices of climate-smart agriculture is actually the value, and the one issue about climate-smart agriculture is actually how much it should bring back the value, the benefits into the local circumstances, both in terms of environmental resilience, social resilience, but today, especially when you look at Africa, the issue is how do we support the communities to harness their resources, land and water, in terms of increasing access to economic, expanding economic opportunities, and actually enabling them to move in that spectrum towards prosperity. Thank you. Okay, thank you very much, Martin. We now have Fabiola Munoz-Dodero, who is the Executive Director of the National Forest and Wildlife Service, SURFOR, here as well. It's a pity she couldn't make it to us a little earlier because she missed the presentations, but I'll give her the chance of listening to the respondents so then she can make something out of that, and we'll have more chances to hear afterwards. Okay, well, thank you very much for coming anyway. It's been, it's great to have you. Lamy, please. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you. When I was being introduced, they said that I'm working for an organization, we're working in a policy space. I would like to throw that into the discourse of, you know, climate smart agriculture. I listened to the presentations, and I also listened to the presentations before this session and yesterday. What I'm seeing as a missing link, it's the enabling environment that we all agree that it's part of what will make, you know, our efforts for climate smart agriculture to be successful. I just want to share with you the experience that just we had with our organization, where we did some scoping studies in 15 countries in Africa, Southern Africa and East Africa, to see how the countries are actually responding in terms of, you know, the climate smart agriculture debates and also climate change. What we are seeing is that the countries do recognize that climate change is there. They also respond to the calls for climate change, and most of the discussions are hosted by the ministries of environment. What we have seen with the ministries of agriculture is that out of the 15 countries that we did the scoping study, there were about four or five where they have policies that speak specifically to climate smart agriculture. So as we discuss, I would like us to look at how we can actually accelerate, you know, really for the countries to have the enabling environment that will complement what is happening on the ground. So we find, you know, this disjuncture that, you know, on the ground there are a lot of experiences, there are a lot of practices that is happening, but there's a gap between what is being practiced and what the policies are saying. So as we discussed, we need to also accelerate on that front. Thank you. Thank you very much, Lamin. That's a very important point. And Alexandre already mentioned it, that we need not only look at the technologies. That's very important. Austin, please, just give us your thoughts. Thank you very much, moderator. From the introduction, I think I'm the most tail end panelist here. I am from the extension side of all these practices. So I will focus my comment on what it takes to scale up climate smart agriculture practices. I like the matrix that Todd presented. I think it's four-dimensional, but as we go out in the field, the matrix could become 100-dimensional. When we are working with the farming communities, the issues of productivity, yes, they come in. The issues of costs, the issues of resource saving, environmental issues or indicators, and also the institutional indicators that we have discussed in the presentation from FAO. So when we are at that level, we must make sure that all those indicators are satisfied, and that's the main challenge that we face. In climate smart agriculture, we have observed that those practices, they do respond to as many of those indicators. And my suggestion to the method study that we are conducting under aircraft is that we should go on beyond the three indicators to satisfy what the farming communities need or what they expect from these practices. And finally, I would like to suggest that we have quick policy briefs to our decision-making people, the politicians, that crisply presents what we expect or what we suggest, the winning solutions to the challenges that the farming communities are facing because of the effects of climate change. Thank you. Thank you, Austin. Thank you, Austin. And that's very important for us to talk about the question of scaling up. I think we should hear more about that. It's one thing to know the benefits in terms of adaptation, mitigation, and food security, but then another question altogether might be how can we reach these millions of farmers that Todd was already mentioning. Fabiola, do you want to say a few words with regard to climate smart agriculture and potentially your own experience here out of the country? I don't know. Well, good afternoon. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I was sorry. I was sorry to replace the Minister in another session, so I couldn't reach out to the mine. But one advantage is that part of the information that I have shared with you today, I have already seen in another presentation with the colleagues of ICRAF and with the people of CIFOR and others who have been working on this. And one of the... I would like to comment basically three topics in particular about technologies climatically inteligentes for an agriculture that we hope that we can become climatically intelligent. The first is the recognition of the traditional knowledge of the traditional knowledge, which is one of the essential points. I think we're very離ous from the issue of technologies that have been used in the past and technologies that are being used today, but that in reality no reach to the level of to be assumed, for example, for those who take decisions. So, this articulation between the traditional knowledge that rescate those appropriate technologies and those cultural practices are one of the key elements. And this is not only I'm saying as Minister of Agriculture and Riego, but also this would have to be, for example, in the investments in the Ministry of Economies, with the Ministry of Economies, with the Ministry of Development and Social Security, it is really the issue of the knowledge of how it is incorporated in the public policy. The second element, which I think is, if we are talking about the same matrix that I have seen in some moment and that has been presented now, there is a series of good practices and possibilities that could also be converted in public policy, but that sometimes in the State we have not to be able to do with the information. There is a link that we have not been able to do, a chip that we have not been able to change, that is how we can convert the results of the investigation into something that informe better the public policy. And then I think we have to make a dialogue more intercultural between those practices to turn the public policy that promotes this agriculture more intelligent in questions practical, the practicality of those that finally have investigated, that we have to prove and that now we should adopt. And the third topic, and now I will use a session, a session for which I could not be here, one thing that we are talking about right now with ministries of other countries is the importance of incorporating other sectors that influence in the issue of agriculture or forestry that are not just the Ministry of Ambient nor the Ministry of Agriculture. So, if we really want to change the agriculture in the country, we have to incorporate other actors that are also taking decisions and that define public policy and that are not traditional. Just in this discussion in which we were talking about, one of the topics that we discussed was, well, what does it have to do, for example, with the Ministry of Justice? What does it have to do, for example, with the Inclusion Social? And in reality it has a lot to do, because, for to give you just a idea, in the Peru, if a farmer, if a farmer or a small or a small or a small area, if a farmer goes to a small area and goes to a small area, he puts the wood in a truck and takes it, the first place of control, he will stop the wood, and he will decomisar the wood and probably... Ah, pardon. Ok. Well. And probably, he will denunce it, and they will decomisar the product that has been talated illegally, which is wood. But if a farmer does exactly the same thing, he will remove the forestry of a small area like this, and put the wood and sell the wood, then nobody will stop it. In the contrary, because it is a agricultural product, although it comes from an area that is forested. So, if the justice ministerial, for example, that dictates many laws linked to these issues, they don't understand that change in the politics, it is difficult to achieve, from there, a entry to not to be a legal, but to be a legal, but to be a legal agriculture, which is not the correct thing. And that has to do with an education. So, there are several aspects and factors that come here. So, I think there is a level of articulation of public policy that is not yet to be worked out to achieve instruments that allow this agriculture to be able to have a climate-like intelligent climate. Thank you so much. I have lost my presentation, and I think you added a very important element and gave some more sort of depth to the question of what contributes to enabling environments from the political perspective, and I think that was very useful for our audience here. So, we have quite a bit of time for questions, and then, so, I'd like to take two or three questions at a time, and then, we'll give our panel an opportunity to respond. I have Jonathan here in the back. Yes, sir, number two, and we'll take one more afterwards. What? Go ahead, Jonathan. Yeah, my name is Jonathan Cornelius. A question actually for, for Fabiola. Can you introduce yourself, please? I just did. Not the institution. Okay, sorry, Henry. This is Jonathan Cornelius. I'm regional coordinator for the World Agroforestry Center based here in Lima. Okay, yeah, a question for Fabiola. Fabiola, your interesting remarks about the need to close the gap between research and policy. and, coincidentally, possibly, in our institutions, the CGIAR, we spend a lot of time thinking about theories of change and how our research can change what happens to its intended, or rather, can change what our intended use of the world. what users do, shall we say. In this case, how our research can change policy. What I'd like to ask you, as a, as a, implementer and former of policy, is to what degree the ultimate end users of research also have to come back down the chain of impact themselves and somewhere meet the scientists as they try increasingly to work forwards in the chain of impact. I hope I'm being clear. What I'm trying to say is that as researchers, we are being asked to be increasingly accountable for our research being implemented. For example, in changing policies. So, what is the role of policy makers in also coming back, maybe, towards researchers and for the two of us together to construct that impact that we all want. Thank you. Okay. Please. Yes, sir. And then, the lady behind him, as well. Thank you. I'm Doug Boucher from the Union of Concerned Scientists. My question is for Todd. The graph you showed had what to me was a striking and even paradoxical result, which is that a very large and quite impressive meta-analysis from the World Agroforestry Center showed that there was no significant effect of agroforestry. But you're only talking about the effects on food security. What were the significant variables that affected mitigation? Okay. Karina Pinasco, the Association of Amazonas for the Amazonia. Thank you for your intervention. I'm sure you've got the topic, I'm sure you've mentioned five, you've mentioned three of the points. But I'm going to make a comment that I did in the previous session about climate intelligently, agriculture and climate intelligently. All of what we are seeing is we need to be a much more integral process. You mentioned the articulation of the sectors, the topic of public policy, the knowledge that is traditionally. And there came the question, we are going to conform with that they are climatically intelligent agriculture, why better we don't advance to economic technologies, and that is for everyone, or development models that are climatically intelligent. And how would we do that process, how would we push all that process, because at the end of the day, I think that there could be the exit to everything we are living now. Okay, let's give the panel the opportunities to respond, and yes, let's start with Fabiola, and then I'll pass it on to Todd. And anybody else who wants to say something to any of the other questions, please feel free. Okay, Fabiola. Okay, so the first question of Jonathan, if I didn't understand it correctly, the question is how to make it that we have, from the side of the politicians and those who take decisions in the institutions, this approach with the investigators. Okay. I think that in both sides, in the side of the investigation, in the side of those who take decisions, we have to have a little more humility. I have to have a little bit of humility. I have been in a meeting in the Pentagon, in a meeting, in a meeting, and then I told you the same thing that I will say now, that I think that it is important to us that the investigation helps us to take decisions and that all decisions that we take, or hopefully in the National Forest Service and the Fauna Silvestre of Perú, we have to have a little bit of a team and that one thing that I was worried about is that we have launched a little bit a concurso of positions and that all positions we have recruited like the 30% of those positions and only we have been able to have one investigator. And then the investigators don't want to enter the State. And that is a problem. And that is a problem. And of course, one of the answers that they gave me in that room was that it is easy. The problem for solving this problem is that the politicians practically they are existing and that only the scientists are taking decisions. And of course, when one listens to this type of things, like I have had that same discussion, I don't know if you know, I am an attorney, I am an attorney, and I am an attorney, you can say, what is a attorney, the director of the forest forestry of a country? Because we in Perú in this moment we are in a process of reform, and my speciality is the topic of the public policy. What we need to do is how to do it, just to generate the institutionality to do it in a simple way with the State, the public policy. And then the first thing I think we should do is to learn to respect the complementary role of the others. And not look at the back of the shoulder, the politicians, the investigators, the economists, the lawyers, and I think we need to do it. I hope we have more economists, more financials, and I think we all need it. And that leads me to to combine the conversation of Karina and Jonathan in this sense. The answer that we have today is urgent, because we have no time, to take decisions and the decisions will be more accepted the more research we have as a support. And then there, the question is if we only are we in agriculture, and I think no. The issue here is how we are, with the example that I gave from the Ministry of Justice, but also how we are from education, health, energy, minas, how we are from all sectors, that is, the most important of these two days of work, that is that the landscape, but not only in the geological or physical, but in this landscape that we have here. If I ask you, for example, how many economists have here? How many economists have here? Two. Is it true? How many engineers, agrónomos? Vaya, a little better, five. How many sociologists? Two. Three. How many lawyers? How many lawyers? How many lawyers? How many lawyers? How many lawyers define the public policy in our countries? How many lawyers how many lawyers how many lawyers how many lawyers from theirFP period right now? How many researchers do see? How many lawyers there in ourTop пой Previously? How many lawyersiferally, другие, as such an example. Where as many researchers do they have, How many researchers here think they have to adopt the law They can't say how many lawyers do their Okay. People who dl by But that is part of that the world has changed and that we need to be in all. Today, look at agriculture outside forest management, outside of green economy, is a mistake. We need to be able to discrepan, and I'm sure that we will have differences, but the door is open to sit in the table, and that is the great advantage of a COP and this space for the paisages. Thank you. Okay, thanks for this passionate statement, Fabiola. And I think you're totally right about everything. I just want to follow up. Si, si. Todd, why don't you just respond to Doug's question? I think it's an important question, Doug. Follow up, great. I appreciate that. I fail to see the paradox, mostly because I'm a scientist, and I just report what the data say. And so this is the analysis that we've done so far in the limited data set. What you see and what you saw in that graph is largely driven by the variability in agroforestry systems that are included there. There's border planting, there's intercroft, there's legumes, there's timber species, and all of that, which is why you see such a wide range in effect. And so I would presume that before the end of the analysis when we've included more data, that we would see a different effect. How large that effect, positive or negative, I'm not, I can't, it's hard for me to predict right now, based on my reading of the 1200 papers. The mitigation effects. Oh, the mitigation effects, we haven't looked at those data yet. Okay. Martin, do you want to say something about the question that Jonathan raised in the context of science and policy? I think you might be able to add a few words from your perspective, maybe put it into the context of the Climate Smart Agriculture Alliance? Yes, thank you. Indeed, that is an interesting issue, and it does come up all the time. In fact, in the Africa Alliance, one of the work stream we have identified where we're saying we need to make a difference is on the policy. We have one on the policy stream, but we have one which we're calling technical support. And this is the appreciation of the fact that, and I think in Africa you can say the politicians are coming quite a long way in respecting data, respecting evidence, and beginning to talk about facts and figures. And the problem is that these facts and figures, data, is not existing in the form, in the manner that they can actually use it at the moment. And that is the problem we have. So the issue in terms of research is actually how we can move and actually move very rapidly, not just in terms of technology development, but also support the politicians to answer the questions they need to answer in terms of real, with the evidence, with the objectivity that is desired. And one of the things we are looking at actually as a matter of approach is that when you talk about climate-smart agriculture and looking at science, it's a very open space. there's a lot we need to know. But it's also clear that the climate-smart agriculture we're talking about, in fact, as implied from the various discussions, is not the same as manufacturing a car in the laboratory and then take it out on the road to be used. The climate-smart agriculture is going to be developed in situ. It's going to emerge within the road that you are using it. So it's how we move actually in terms of research approaches, in terms of research tools, in terms of the accountability of what research delivers, to actually bring them into the field, working with the farmers, working with politicians, working with communities. And actually it's also because it's not just a technical issue. It's actually political economy and those things will be critical in making climate-smart agriculture image the way we want to see it. We've mentioned actually working with the C-CALFs, we're working with FARA, and we're saying also that we need, in fact, just as much political economy research as we're doing on the hardware, on the actual agronomy and technological practices. Moderator, if you allow me just one more point. I wanted also to say that when you look at the discussions on climate-smart agriculture everywhere, even in these two days, of course it's being emphasized in terms of the comprehensiveness, the integrated nature of it, the holistic aspects. But it's also linking to research to understand that I think we have to be careful that we don't end up with a very perfect creation that is unimplementable. And actually the excellency of the description of climate-smart agriculture is not going to come out of a laboratory. It's going to come out of real practices in the field. And I want to end by saying, in fact, in that sense, that's why we need to listen more from what the farmers are doing, what communities are doing, and actually understand that if it's not broken, don't fix it. Brilliant. Okay, I saw, I had you, sir, then I saw you first and I don't know if you were there, so I have you three. Okay, please, introduce yourself, please. Can we get a microphone? Here, I saw you first. No, I saw this gentleman first. He was already raising his hand. I'm sorry. Thank you. Doug Brown with World Vision International. My question is specifically to Todd, but I think Alexandra might be able to help with it as well. Your data surprised me a little bit in a way it was, but I think it's partly because it's a meta and meta analysis. And of course, you're looking at studies that were designed to measure food or productivity impacts or resilience impacts, but they may not have measured the other ones, and so they're dropped out when you sort of start comparing to. So there's a limitation there, I guess, but I was looking at the grid, the quadra here where you have the win-wins, the lose-lose, and then the mixed ones, and I'm just trying to wonder. I know when, in the FAO source book, we know that there's a lot of practices listed there, and they're not all equally climate smart. Some score better on two or three dimensions than others do. So I'm wondering if you can characterize what's in the upper right quadrant versus what's in the upper left versus the lower right, and what practices are dropping down to those things versus the ones which are clear win-wins? Okay. And yes, sir, please. Now you'll have to go over again. I'm sorry. Can I take about two minutes to share how we have achieved climate smart agriculture and benefited in India? Yes. Okay. So if you would try to be very concise. Yeah, I would try to be. I take two minutes. And try to frame a question as well. Yeah, later on. But first I would like to congratulate Todd for bringing out a very precise analysis of what is happening in the world. And what benefits have accrued. And if this taken further than the world community will benefit. Now climate smart agriculture, we started in Gujarat, India about 10 years back, and we called it as a new extension approach. It is prior to agriculture season. It takes place in all villages together, 18,000 villages. Team is led by agriculture, extension administration, agriculture scientists, input dealer, and market people. And they go and meet the farmers at their doorstep. Provide them information what crops they should grow in next season based on prevailing situation. Three inputs are provided to farmers. One is soil health analysis, which I mentioned in the last session, that what crops their soil will sustain based on the weather parameters. Second is what is market demand for the crops, which crops they should select based on the market. And where the quality inputs are available. This is backed by water conservation measure at village level, which is funded by the government with community participation. So not a drop of water goes out. 70% of our area is rain fed. Focus is on women farmers and rural youth. And rural youth are trained to identify what are micro enterprises and what are micro-possibilities based on local agriculture. So it's a comprehensive approach. It takes place every year prior to agriculture season. And what has happened in Gujarat, India, and which is now going on all over the country, the soil health card approach and everything, is that we had a minus 2% to plus 2% growth rate. We have now reached 9% growth rate in 10 years at constant price. So almost income of farmers have doubled and on par with non farm sector. So if we follow this approach in a comprehensive manner, there will be less social turmoil which are happening in many parts of the world. And people are trying to grab justice by brutality. Thank you. Okay. Thank you very much for this comment. And I'm going to ask your intervention first, please. Okay. My name is Talendasim Tunzi and I'm with Fanapan. My question is basically on coordination, taking into account that CSA is at a global level and also we have got the CSA Alliance at the African level. How are the coordination modalities? Do we have an implementation framework or monitoring and evaluation framework at a global level that resonates with other regions? And are we following a bottom-up approach in terms of coming up with those kinds of frameworks? And the other question is on the CSA technologies. Do we have context-specific CSA toolkit or technologies that we have to really say this is what we call climate-smart agriculture or it's just the three indicators that were showed here that indicate on food security adaptation and mitigation? Do we have practical context-specific toolkits that are talking to different ecotypes in the different regions that we are operating in? Thank you. Thank you very much for this excellent question. So what I would suggest is that Alexandre and Austin, you could try to respond to the Indian gentleman's point, which I think was very context-specific. And I think it makes sense to sort of look at the question from a larger perspective. Is it transferable? Can it be done elsewhere? You know, what are the constraints? And because we talk about systems that are context-specific, we need to make sure that they actually fit somewhere else. And then, Todd, if you answer Doug's question, of course, and Lami, I don't know if you want to step in also looking at the questions of coordination, potentially. So, Alexandre. So, the first thing is that, which is why I was saying that we're a bit uneasy with this idea of climate-smart technologies and climate-smart practices because it is very context-dependent. It's ecosystem-dependent, but it's also socially dependent. It depends how the communities are organized. It depends how the policies are supporting. It depends on the economics. So, from our perspective, what we need is having more examples of what has worked or what has not worked with the various impacts and why it has worked or why it has not worked. What is the context which is around? The ultimate objective would be, I don't know if it would be toolkits, but information tools, knowledge platforms, colleagues, how you want it, where practitioners or actors at whatever level, from governments, policymakers, or development practitioners, or farmers, could go and have a look at situations which are as comparable as possible to theirs. Or, one aspect of the situation is comparable to theirs. So, that's the objective. And you're right, it needs a lot of coordination. This event is part of it. The huge work done by Todd is an essential element of that. But there is still a lot to be done. But probably one, the biggest, from my perspective, the biggest mistake to avoid would be to say, oh, that's a solution. Just implement it top-down. This doesn't, wouldn't work. And not only it wouldn't work, but there is a risk of having wrong impacts in another dimension. I think one of the important things with climate-like climate-like is that we say in the beginning, you have to look at the three things. You do not necessarily need to address them at the same level. The win-win-win thing is a myth, maybe. But you need to look at the three things. But you need to know what damage you are doing in another dimension when you want to do something. And that's probably true for all natural resources issues or even development issues. And, yeah, maybe I'll... And this probably is part of why the quarter and what so many trade-off, because it's not the same everywhere, but probably you'll be more able to enter that way. Yeah, that's fine. Austin, you want to say a few words? Okay. Thank you very much. I'll start from where Alexander has stopped on the toolkit, yes or no. So, in some areas we are trying to draft some toolkit or some messages on climate-smart agriculture practices. I'll give an example of the EPIC projects in Vietnam, Zambia and Malawi, where we have looked at the... We have started looking at the trade-offs in terms of mitigation, food security and adaptation, and we have isolated some examples or some practices that are fitting well within those win-win-win. We are also doing some institutional mapping on how to move on or outscale these practices and we have... We are also doing some policy harmonization. I think my colleague Shema indicated that in some areas or some regions we have a gap between the environmental sector and the agriculture sector from policy and institutional set-up on how to handle the issue of agricultural practices that are climate-smart. From my colleague from India, that's a very good example that he has indicated and he has indicated and I'm happy that a few months ago I was in Marahashtra and I observed the same best practices on what they were calling the advisory services. Within Marahashtra, they were able to combine the water budgets, the water budgets, the focus, the available water for irrigation, the onset of the rains, and the prevailing economic and social conditions, the markets, the agroecological conditions, the soil fertility, to precisely advise the farming community on how they can modify or improve their farming system. And I really agree with him that it has really improved the productivity of the farmers, but also the resilience of the farming system.