The NEXT GENERATION of Raised Garden Beds is HERE
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c-9cMkEw7Ow
Howto & Style
 Brace yourself because the next generation of raised garden bed is here. G'day, I'm Mark from Self Sufficient Me. And in this video, I'm going to show you the exciting next generation in birdies raised garden beds. And I'll announce something that could save you a ton of cash. Let's get into it. I purchased my first set of birdies garden beds in 2008. And Simon, the CEO of birdies, actually delivered them to me at the time. And like most startup businesses, if you're the CEO, you're also doing everything else. You're even the delivery guy. These three are the old original beds here. This one's got asparagus in it. I've been growing asparagus in this bed for probably about 13 years. I used to use half of this bed for ginger. But I decided to go a full bed of spears because fresh homegrown asparagus is amazing. And we just can't get enough of it. This second bed along also has a long-term crop in it of sweet potato. But it is getting a little overgrown with some weeds. It's a creeper type of weed. And radish and even a bit of pumpkin vine. So what I'm thinking of doing is in autumn, I'll harvest all the sweet potato, dig it all up, give the whole bed a refurbishment, and we'll grow something else in there next season. And this one is the last of the three that I purchased 15 years ago. In this bed, I've sowed some chilies, several different varieties. I had to cover the seedlings from the possums and the field mice because they started grazing on them. Once the seedlings get about three inches tall, though, they start to accumulate more toxins in the leaves and the rodents and possums don't like to eat them. So by the looks of it, I can pretty much remove the wire mesh now. And then what I'm going to do is dig them up out of their clumps and transplant the seedlings around and fill up this rather large birdies raised garden bed. And the excess, I'm going to throw into this next-gen bed, which I was lucky enough to be one of the first gardeners in the world to trial one. Fittingly, we placed this bed next to Birdies' original and oldest raised beds so that you can see the difference. In May this year, Simon invited me to the Birdies' factory, which is down the Gold Coast here in Queensland, Australia, about two hours away. He gave me a personal tour of their operations, and I can tell you it was eye-opening. I wasn't allowed to take any pictures or video inside the factory because they have a lot of machines that they've personally designed and custom-made that are commercial in confidence. But what I can say is their way of manufacturing allows Birdies' to sell high-quality products at competitive prices, which is important for business survival, especially these days in the manufacturing industry. Now, I'm not an environmental nut, but I do care about waste and sustainability. And Birdies' factory is powered by a solar system. Their sawdust waste from the wood products that they have is all composted down, mixed with chicken manure, and then used as fertilizer. And their metal offcuts are all reused and made into other metal products. So that's pretty good. Anyway, I know what you're thinking. You're thinking, Mark, can you just stop yakking and get into the details of this most newest, strongest, and best raised garden bed from Birdies? I mean, not literally get in it, but tell you all about it. Look, when I see something like this, I imagine it's like a motor enthusiast thinks of a new model sports car. This baby here to me is made from the best Aluzink metal with high-grade stainless steel fittings and is 100% food safe, USDA approved. But what's a real game changer is what you can't see. And that's the all new braking system. I mean, bracing system. I've got motor cars in my head now. Over the years, Birdies introduced a bracing system for their raised beds, particularly the higher sided beds, designed to stop the sides from bowing out under the pressure of the soil. The old braces worked fine, but it was a bit finicky to assemble. Plus, if you use the Hugel culture method of layering the base of the beds with organic matter, in some cases, the beds bowed inwards. This was due to the top soil forming a crust and compacting down, and then falling as that organic waste in the base decayed down, especially if it decayed down quickly. And that would cause the soil to fall onto the braces in a big lump and consequently pull the sides inwards. Having said that, it didn't damage the beds and the fix wasn't hard. You simply dug down and pulled the braces back up and popped the sides back out. But the new bracing system is not only easier to assemble, It's also stronger and designed to stop the sides of the bed from bowing out or in. Earlier this year, I tested a prototype bed for birdies, this big long one here, and it had a hybrid bracing system. A mix of the old cross braces with the new vertical posts. We loaded the bed up with banana waste, and then I jumped on top to see how it would handle the extra pressure. And as you can see, the bed is holding up really well. I'm growing potatoes in it. That video will be coming out soon. It looks like it'll be a bumper crop, so I'm excited for that. But just a side note, please don't go jumping in your birdies raised garden beds. Only an idiot like me would do that. Plus, it'll probably void, or it will void your warranty as well. You don't need to jump in and crush everything down. You just follow the instructions, which clearly state no jumping in your raised garden bed. It was for testing purposes. So back to this bed, and birdies ended up modifying the bracing system and settling on this totally new design, which is simpler to assemble and stronger. I didn't end up creating a hugelkultur bed this time because we had a heap of old soil to use up. So it went in as fill in the base, topped up with good quality garden soil, compost, and mulch. And I predict that this bed is going to grow the biggest, best, tastiest, next generation of chilies ever. And in case you didn't gather, it is raining. But hey, I love the rain. If it ain't raining, it ain't training. Now, let's get to that special announcement that I wanted to announce. And that is, when can you get these new next-gen raised garden beds? Well, if you're in the USA, you can actually order them right now. Go to the Epic Gardening Online Store, but make sure you use my code and follow my link to get the 5% off your order. Now, this is important. To find the link in the code, go to the description below my video and have a look in there. I will also post it and pin it to the top of the comment section below the video. Also, there are some amazing Black Friday sales from Friday the 24th to Monday the 27th to take advantage of. But what I want to highlight is the mega deal on Friday with up to 45% off legacy beds. That's a huge discount. Now, I know they're not the next-gen beds, but they're still a quality product. Most of my veggie garden is old birdies beds. I love them, and I'm not replacing them. Yes, the new generation beds are awesome, but at almost half the price, I can't help thinking what a bargain that this is for this type of raised garden bed. I'm starting to tap dance now because the rain's getting heavier, and I want to finish this off. Just to be clear, I do have an affiliate arrangement with Birdies and Epic Gardening. So that means if you purchase something following my link and my code, I do get a small commission. So just be aware of that. It's my obligation to let you know. I'll finish with this. I was in the shopping centre last week, and I'm just minding my own business, walking out, and this lady made a beeline for me and came up to me and gave me a half hug. You know where they grab your hands, grab both of your hands, and bring you in like that. They're not giving you a full hug. They're sort of like that. And she was almost like this close to me. She was just radiant, happy. And of course, I didn't know why, but I soon found out. She said, she called me self-sufficient me, not Mark. God bless her. She said, self-sufficient me. It's so great to see you. I want to tell you something. My husband was a keen gardener until he became disabled. It must have been a chronic problem he has, or I don't know what. But she said she was watching one of my videos, and I talked about raised garden beds. And so she brought it up to her husband, and they decided to get one. And she reckons it's changed his life. It's given him a new lease on life. He's now up and gardening in the raised bed. It's not as bad for his disability, and he's always in it and having a great time. I love those types of stories. And also, I might as well take the opportunity to say, every one of you that I meet out there, thanks for coming up and saying hello. I enjoy it. Don't be shy. I love shaking a hand or even a half hug. It doesn't worry me. But I do get very happy when I hear that people are getting into gardening, and it's changing their lives or giving them a new lease on life. It's nice. Yeah. So I thought I'd share that story with you, and I have many others. But that was a really nice moment. Well, I hope you enjoyed this video. If you did, I've got to get out of this rain. Make sure, and the mosquitoes are starting to bite me. Make sure that you give this video a big next generation thumbs up, share it around, and subscribe if you haven't already. Thanks a lot for watching. Bye for now. Cheers.