Selling The Farm To The Next Generation - An Affordable Strategy To Consider
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c0Hubk2DGzo
People & Blogs
 Hi, I'm Michael Brewitt, owner of Brewitt Financial, and today we're on Matt and Lisa's beautiful homestead just outside of Brantford, Ontario. For this video, I want to discuss the financial challenges your children may face in buying your farm and present a strategy to help make it more affordable. Property values have skyrocketed over the last decade. A few years ago when interest rates were low, this wasn't as daunting. But now, with higher interest rates, financing has become a significant challenge for a lot of people. Let me share a solution that I recently implemented with one of my farming clients. Now imagine you're ready for retirement and have built an additional residential unit, or ARU, on your property. You want to sell your farm to one of your children for $1.5 million so that they can continue the family legacy while you retire and live in your ARU. The child has about $250,000 saved but needs a mortgage for the remaining $1.25 million. At current rates of around 5%, that means a monthly mortgage payment of over $7,200, and that's not a realistic amount for most. In this case, the initial down payment adds to the parents' retirement funds, providing enough for the rest of their lives. But how do we handle the remaining $1.25 million? Here's the strategy. We took out a $1.25 million whole life insurance policy with a monthly premium of about $3,000. Instead of paying a mortgage, the child now pays the insurance premium which saves them over $4,000 per month. Now that's money they can reinvest back into the farm or use for their own family. An IOU is issued for the child to the parents. And when the second parent passes, the IOU becomes due to the estate. As the beneficiary of the life insurance policy, the child uses the payout to settle the loan, and the estate's remaining assets are distributed to all remaining beneficiaries. Some key factors to consider. Even if the parents pass after only one premium payment is made, the loan is still covered in full. The insurance premium is paid for only 20 years, whereas a typical mortgage lasts 25 years. And this means further savings to the child. Over a 25-year mortgage, the child could end up paying more than $2.1 million, while they'd pay only $720,000 into the life insurance policy. And that's if they paid it for the full 20 years. This strategy not only saves money in the long term, but it also frees up cash flow every single month. While this approach may not be right for everyone, it's an example of the high-level strategies we can implement to safeguard your financial health. If you'd like to explore more about how this strategy or others might work for you, please reach out to us at Bruit Financial. We're here to help you in any way we possibly can.