Unknown Title
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c1ec31L-L8g
Unknown Category
 Welcome to Wholesome Roots. Today I'm going to show you how to transplant tomatoes. Looking good! Anybody who has followed me for any amount of time knows that my tomato plants get completely buried the whole plant all the way up to the top growth. It's what I consider the absolute best method for tomato planting. You get tons of root development and really healthy plants this way. So first thing you want to choose healthy plants. I have two that are growing together. I have two that are growing I have two that are growing together that I'm going to pull apart gently teasing the roots apart. So whether you start your transplants yourself from seed or you buy them from a local source just choose the healthiest ones you see. Then you're gonna dig a nice deep hole the whole height of the plant in a wonderful compost rich soil well-drained full Sun. That means you need six to eight hours of Sun for these plants. Sometimes I even will water inside the hole to get it moist deep down inside before I transplant. Then you put your plant all the way to the bottom of the hole leaving just the top of the plant above the soil line. So my soil is gonna come all the way up on this plant and it's gonna lead to root development all along the stem. Tomato plants root very easily on the stem. Now you can pinch the lower leaves off or leave them on. I didn't have but one on there so it got buried it won't hurt anything and that's that. Water it in well right after planting and keep an eye on it over the next couple of days in water if you see any wilting. This is the most easy and simple way of planting tomatoes that I have found and I really have found it so easy that I almost cringe when I see people planting long leggy tomato plants all above ground because I think about all those roots you could have had. So make sure you don't miss out on your chance to have lots of roots to help support the plant to get the most nutrients from your compost rich soil and the biggest and most beautiful tomatoes. But you do have to give careful consideration to how you support them during that growth because tomato plants can get taller than me and I have a great video that teaches you all about different trellising methods that are affordable and easy to use. Check it out. Make sure you check out our tomato playlist because one of the things I've always been called is the tomato queen. Ever since I was a young girl I was always the one who grew the biggest and best tomatoes. Thank you for watching. We'll see you next time on Wholesome Roots.