Crop Circles-Interviews of Farmers
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C84-znjOXH4
Entertainment
 As researchers across the globe ponder the true origin of crop circles, one important factor of the equation is often overlooked. The farmers. The fields and crops that these unidentified pictograms appear in are the livelihood of the property owner. And the problem is not only mysterious, it's costly. Join us as Paranormal TV offers a point of view story from the voices of the farmers themselves. My name's Jeff Smith. I'm the farm foreman. I've lived here 50 plus years. I've worked on this farm all the time. This behind us, that's what we'd expect. That's normal storm damage. Wind, rain, whatever. Some nitrogen overlap. That's what we'd normally expect. And that's nothing like the crop circles that we experienced. The crop circles we had, they were round. The first one we had in June, that was round, complete circle. Not quite sure the actual measurements at the moment. Some of the crop was led clockwise, some anti-clockwise. That was on the first one. And the second one was an even bigger one, which was about two months later. They were clockwise, anti-clockwise, and four little dots in the middle of it. Completely different to this. Nothing like this whatsoever. Then when it happens to you, you then start to realise that something very, very big is happening and that these things are important. There have been hoaxes. At one time there was quite a craze of hoaxes. People got together and thought it was clever. Farmers didn't take too kindly to that because what is our living? We don't want people tramping our crops and things down. A classic reaction of farmers and lots of other people, but perhaps more so farmers because they are immediately threatened, is to dismiss this thing immediately as a hoax. It must be done by people. And we had a neighbouring farmer who for the very first time this year had a crop circle on his land. I telephoned him to ask him if I could go on into the circle. And he said to me, but of course, you know, they're all hoaxes. This is a classic reaction. People know nothing about these things. They've never been in one. And the one thing they want to do just straight away is dismiss it as a hoax. If only people would just be bothered just to find out a few facts about these things, and at least try and go into one. And then if you still think it's done by people, okay, fine. But to just dismiss it out of hand is crazy. Crazy.