We Have Mow Problems on the Farm | Calm Lands One Tile Challenge Episode 16
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cDtqJ9rXyI0
Gaming
 Hello and welcome everybody to our Calmlands One Tile Challenge. This is going to be episode 16. We went ahead and fast forwarded a little bit to April and well that caused some more problems for us. We will have to look into how we're going to solve our issues moving forward, especially with mowing our grass. But if you haven't yet, definitely look down in the description and check out some of the other content creators that are doing this challenge with us. They are doing awesome, great bunch of creators. Definitely worth checking out their videos. If you've enjoyed what we've done so far on this series, consider smashing that like button and hitting the subscribe. But without further ado, let's go ahead and get into the rest of the video. Alright, it sold 50 chickens, so we got $250 for it. But I mean that doesn't really cover a whole lot. Um... Wow. So they produced a whole other pallet worth of eggs. Nice, nice, nice, nice, nice. We're going to have to worry about where we're going to put all our eggs pretty soon. Alright. But we got four more pallets of lettuce ready to go. So... So... Yeah, we're definitely running out of storage area pretty quickly. Um... But we do want to go ahead... And honestly, I think I'm just going to keep the time down at three. That way we have plenty of time to work in a month instead of keeping it on five. Um... Get our mower out. So we're going to go ahead and... Oh wow! I did not expect the trees to pop up so quick. Oh, we... Ooh... I... I did not expect to see any kind of growth... Visually, for a while. Oh man. Um... That's... I mean, great! Uh... We have trees, but... That means we can't get the harvester... Into that other field... If we did throw down plant... Uh... Beans. So I thought we were going to have a little bit more time. Let's go take a look at that field. Uh... We'll... We'll try and get a cut on that one first. Um... Yeah, I was... Definitely not expecting that. Maybe we can... Get in between... All the... All the trees. Yeah, that might be an issue when... They get a little bit bigger to try and get into that other field. I mean, we still have that open wall on the other side, but... Yeah... This is going to be even a pain just to cut. Um... We might have shot ourselves in the foot by putting... The crop down here. Yep... Because I can't even just bounce off at the tree. Uhhh... Man... Well... I wonder if we can go in from the side and just... Don't wanna get too close. That's it. I don't know if we can go in from the side and just... Don't wanna get too close. I think this might actually be our... Best direction to go ahead and cut. That means I'll get... A pass in one direction and a pass in another. But we don't have a whole lot of room to turn around down there. So we'll take... A... A good look to see... But we don't have a whole lot of room to turn around down there. So we'll take a look to see. It probably should be closer to the trees over here. Yep, and that's about where we'll be able to get without running into our crops. Yeah, you know, I don't think I thought this one through. I might have to look at maybe getting a skinnier mower just to go ahead and get in here. Um, man. Alright, well, in the meantime, we'll go ahead and cut our grass field. I was not expecting for those kind of mistakes to be there. So, it happens. But we are going to go ahead and cut our grass. And... So that'll limit our income quite a bit because I'm not going to be able to cut in between... ...any of the grass besides what we have. But in the same turn, that means we're going to have trees a whole lot sooner than I thought we were going to also. So that's a good thing. It's both a blessing and a curse. But I am excited to have the trees. My tractor's running away without me. Because I hit the wrong button. Alright. Back it up a little bit. But yeah, so... I'm glad that we're able to get the trees up a little bit. I'm not sure... I'm not sure what we really want to do about all that. Um... I think our lines disappeared on where we want to cut. But I think I can just run along the edge of this and be just fine. If I keep my back tire along the edge. But yeah. So... Was not expecting for those trees to sprout up. Not this soon, anyway. So I think what we're going to need to look at is a mower that can get in between those. That way we can still... Well, we're going to need more than just a mower, aren't we? We're going to probably need... Oh, we only got 16,000. Man. Alright. So I'm going to go ahead... We're going to look at our options real quick. See what... What can be done. And we'll decide what we should do. Uh... Let me... Set this mower off real quick. I know these can't mow backwards. These are all 20,000. And they still stick out a ways afterward. Huh. Unless I just mow in reverse, but... Don't think we're going to be able to do anything... With that grass for a little while. Okay. I might, uh... Search the mod hub, uh... Off camera and... Take a look at what we can do. Because I really don't want to lose that profit down there. Because that's going to be a ton of money. I mean, not a ton, but... A decent... It's a decent sized field. So I... I'm assuming we'd probably at least get... 10 grand off of it. Every cut. If we converted it to silage. So I mean, we get a little... About 20 grand off of this one when we cut it. So that is unfortunate. Um... Well, I mean... I don't think that one's nearly as big as this. But yeah. At least five, six grand. That or we need to... That's actually pretty decent spacing on those trees. At least at the moment. Um... I'm trying to think, trying to think. So we might possibly start... Cutting some of those trees out... While the others grow. Um... Just to... Try and get a little bit of wood... Going. I mean, I might give them a little bit more of a growth stage. That also allows us to... Continue to get wood. If we throw down a lumber mill. Oh. Oh. I forgot to drop the bar. What are you doing, donkey? What are you doing? Yeah. I'm just gonna circle the wagon. And we'll drop back in... Right here. Alright. There we go. Yeah. I think what we might do is go ahead and look into... How much it is gonna be to put down our sawmill production. And then once... Maybe once the trees hit one more growth stage, we'll start chopping a few of them down. And then... From there... We will be able to... Kinda weed out and replant as we need. No, I lowered that. Oh, I lowered it once and then raised it back up. Cause I got off track. Okay. Yeah. So I think... We'll take a look into that once we get this mode. Um... So I am gonna go ahead and... Jump into mowing this. I know since we didn't get it fertilized... We're gonna... We're gonna take a hit on how much we're actually getting off of it. If you can look down in the... Bottom corner where the map is... You can see... You can see... It's a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit. The field needs both lime and fertilizer. But... We're gonna take a hit on how much we're actually getting off of it. If you can look down in the... Bottom corner where the map is... You can see our yield... Is changing... From that nice dark green that we were getting to a lighter green. Because of the... The fact that... This field needs both lime and fertilizer. But... It happens and... We are... Gonna go ahead and get this mode and... We'll... Catch back up to you. Alright, so... We just finished up mowing here. But I think we might have... Figured out a solution to our... Mow problem. So... We just finished up mowing here. But I think we might have... A solution to our... Mow problems. Um... Um... Now... It is gonna cost us a little bit more money. But... We should be able to earn... That bag off of the first cut. So... We should be able to earn... That bag off of the first cut. So... I think we're gonna run up to... The... Shop. We got a friend over there eating our grass. Alright. But yeah. So I think if we run up to the shop... We might be able to... Get a mower small enough to go in between the trees. Um... But... The only other question... Is... Are we gonna be able to get the wagon... In between the trees to pick up the grass that we mow? And... That's gonna be another one. But... Let's... Let's... Let's get up here. And... So... We're gonna go outside. So... Is... Are we gonna be able to get the wagon... In between the trees to pick up the grass that we mow? And... That's gonna be another one. So... We're gonna go outside. We're gonna go outside. We're gonna go outside. We're gonna go outside. So... Let's get up here. You guys are running a little late to work. I've noticed that the traffic on here is very much based around the hour. At least maybe that's just when I come to the shop and see the traffic. Alright. Alright, so we're going to go into mowers here and went ahead and added a couple of mods. So this one is an option, the iMac, but it only has a 1.8 working width. So I'm not sure if that's what we want to go with, especially since this lizard mower here has a 3.4 working width, which is almost what we're currently working with. But it goes directly behind the tractor. And it can go 3 kilometers faster than the iMac. So I think this might be what we go with. You know what? We're going to go ahead and buy it. Does it cost us anything to change the color? Let's see. No. Okay, awesome. So we can change the color as we feel the need to. Um, what color are we feeling? You know what? It'll kind of... Oh no, that's way too bright. Um... Hmm. You know what? We'll just keep it with the classic red. But, alright. So, we'll buy that. Now I guess our other option, if we can't... Get... That might actually be pretty close to... Width of those trees. Um... About the width in between those trees. And once it gets bigger, we probably should have went with the smaller one. But, decisions were made. So, we will probably face that problem when we get around to it. Granted, when they get bigger, I'm planning on thinning them out. But... We should... Let's see... How close are we going to be? Oh yeah, now we're going to be great. Okay. So... That being said... What do our lines... Oh! Yep, we're going to be doing this one by hand. That is... Some funky looking lines. Yep. Yep. So... I'm not sure why. But, yeah. Alright. But, yeah. Our other option is... Okay. And it looks like we might be able to get... Right up next to the trees. And... Get that... Median in between. But... If we can't... Uh... Get our... Uh... Our forge wagon in between here. I guess what we could probably do is push... All of it with the bucket. And... Uh... Yeah, this is going to be a pain. But... We could push it all with the bucket. And get it down... That way. So, I think... We'll go ahead and finish off this strip here. Uh... Just to make it easier to turn around. And then we should be... Fine to go ahead and mow this. Now, that'll allow us to... Uh... At least make some money... On this field. Uh... Why these trees are growing. But, yeah. And then we should be able to fit just fine... In between here. Because this is our narrowest section. If I could just drive straight. Because these trees were planted in a straight line. I just have to be able to, uh... Mow in a straight line. Alright. But, yeah. So, this is our narrowest section. And we fit just fine at the moment. So, that's... Not going to be a bad thing. But, now... But, now... But, now we're going to run into the issue of being able to either A. Fertilize. To keep our... Score up a little bit on... Precision farming. As I know, since I didn't fertilize the land... Uh... Or... Our other... Grass field... Last time before cutting. Oh! Whoa! What just happened to that tree? Does this... Delete trees as well? Um... Um... Hmm... Hmm... I'm... I'm going to go ahead and turn... Real mower off on that. I don't... Want to be losing trees like that. I mean, I want to be able to cut the grass, but... That tree had a lot more potential than... Than that little bit of grass that we cut right there. Alright. Well, yeah. So, we'll get this cut. And... Then we will see if... We can't... End up... Uh... And see what issues we're going to... Get with, uh... Picking it up the grass. But yeah. So, we will... Skip you guys ahead... Until we get this mowed. And then we will see you guys once I get back. Alright guys. So, we just finished mowing this. Um... Did kind of a, uh... Weaving pattern... Between the trees. Let's try and get a little bit more. Because even after we turned off the real mower... We still ended up... Cutting down a tree... Somehow. I'm not sure why... But... That was not in the mod description on this. That it does remove stumps. Or any kind of, uh... Tree deletion. So... A little weird about that. But we are going to go ahead and... Windrow at least this field. And then we'll pull out the... Uh... Horge harvester. To... See if we can't get a, uh... Decent amount of grass picked up. Between the two fields. Now... One of the things that we have to do is... Um... Decent amount of grass picked up. Decent amount of grass picked up. Between the two fields. Now... One of the things I did say earlier is... That our pH and our... Fertilization was bad on... These fields. Uh, which is, um... Well... Yeah. It's... Non-existent in spots. So... That's not very good. I mean, granted back here it's fine. But... If we look at our... PH map, it's not looking pretty at all. Um... At least on this field. So we are gonna need... I think last time it was... Three bags of, uh... Lime. To get that done. Uh... So we will... Have to get... I say bags, but pallets of lime. To get... That all... Situated. Um... And we're gonna have to get that down... Today. Now, as far as spraying... We might be able to... Save that until... Next month. That way it realizes that grass is here. Um... Um... If we... Do it this month... Shortly after it's harvested... It's gonna... Lose its mind and... We're gonna end up putting down... Way too much fertilizer. Now... If we do wait till next month... We might be able to... Afford the... Pulse... Modulation. And throw that on there. But that'll definitely be... Dipping into our... Profits from the silage... In order to do so. Which isn't necessarily... A bad thing... Because we do want... That for... The future anyway. Just to... Help us out... As far as... Saving a little bit of money on fertilizer. So... It wouldn't be a bad thing... If we do want... To do so... Which isn't necessarily a bad thing... Because we do want... That for... The future anyway. Just to... Help us out... So... It wouldn't be a bad thing... To go ahead and get that. At least I believe... That's what it'll... What it'll be. That or... We might... Sell a couple more pallets of lettuce. As... We are getting... Four pallets... Around four pallets a month. Which... That's a lot of lettuce. Um... And... We'll see where that puts us. It might put us... Right there... At being able to do it. Well... Actually... What we have eight pallets sitting there. Because we skipped a month. So yeah... We might... We might go ahead and sell our... Lettuce off. And... Put pulse... The pulse... Modulation. But that's... Oh... That'll mean that we can't... Um... Do lime... And fertilizer. We can't afford that. So yeah... Yeah I think what we'll do is... We'll save our money this month. And... Go ahead and... Uh... Put down the lime. And then... Next month... We should be able to afford... The pulse modulation. As well as... Um... Our liquid fert. And get that thrown down. Now for... This other field... We're... We're still gonna have to use our... Dry fertilizer to fertilize the grass over there. Just because... We're not gonna be able to get the sprayer... In between those trees... At all. But we should be able to... Run... Probably every... Other... Lane in between the trees... And... Get fertilizer spread out there. It's not gonna be as... Evenly distributed... As far as the nitrogen values go. But it should... Still take care of... The task of getting our... Nitrogen up... As far as our field. Okay, so... Yeah... Yeah... It is not looking pretty for us. So if we don't get... Our... Values up... Nitrogen wise... We're... Missing out on... A lot of our bones... But it should still take care of... The task of getting our... Nitrogen up... As far as our field. Okay, so... Yeah... Yeah... It is not looking pretty for us. So if we don't get... Our... Values up... Nitrogen wise... So if we don't get... Our... Values up... Nitrogen wise... We're... Missing out on... A lot of our bonus... That we get from... Uh... Precision farming. I think I probably should've done... A second headland down there. Before starting the down and backs. before starting the down and backs. So I think when we get down there, I'll do a second headland on the bottom. And then we will finish windrowing this. And then I will bring you back once we are picking up the other field, just so you can see how that's gonna work out. But yeah, so we will see you once we get done with that. All right, so we finished windrowing on the field up there. Now we do wanna check to see how well this is gonna fit in between the trees. So I wanted to go ahead and bring you guys back in for that. That way you guys can see whether or not our problem was solved as far as picking it up, at least for the little bit. It looks like we will clear the branches. And hopefully these trees only get taller and the branches don't get lower. I mean, that's how nature works, right? As things grow up, but yeah. And see, this is where we deleted the other tree by accident. So that's why I left a lot of grass around each tree, is I did not want to risk bumping into the trees and making them disappear. So thankfully it was only two trees that we lost, but that's still two trees that we lost, and the potential of our wood. Because right now each of these trees, each tree at the moment is 350 liters of wood. So. So. So. So. So. So. So. So. It does look like this is working for now, and we are almost done picking up this field. Although if it is only going to be, it looks like it might be, two trailers worth of grass, off this little bit. That might not even be worth, risking losing the trees, to go ahead and mow. So. But. We'll have to see. Yep. It looks like it might be two trailers worth. See if I can sneak out this way. Now if they get bigger, it might, it might still be worth it. But yeah. I really, really don't like losing profit like that though. So I think what we're going to do, because I don't want to run over our crops, just definitely want to avoid the crop destruction. I think I'm going to use the bunker up here. Go ahead and fill that. So we'll have 12 pallets next, next episode of lettuce. About $1,000 a pallet. That'll, uh, be $12,000 in lettuce. So that, that won't be too terribly bad. Um, plus whatever we're going to get off the silage. So we're looking about, possibly making, we'll say $30,000. Next month. Um, possibly. Now, that being said, in order to put down our, uh, lumber mill, uh, lumber mill. So that's going to be, about, I think, $12,000, $10,000 or $12,000. Go ahead and put down the lumber mill that we want. Um, it was one of the only ones that I found that will do the prefab walls. Um, and still be a decent size to fit on our farm. So, I think that's the one we're going to end up going with. Uh, and then, it's another $30,000 for our, concrete, plant. So we will have to save up for that as well as the additional $40,000 to get our, um, sprayer where we want it. So I'm not sure which one we're going to do first. I know if we can make about $40,000 every couple of months, that'll be great. But, I am so, like, I'm still on the fence on which one we should do first. Should we, should we go ahead and get the lumber rolling? Or should we go ahead and get our sprayer situated the way we need it to be? I think we might end up getting the sprayer done first. Just because that's going to be something that's going to be a little bit more useful in the future. Hmm. Or, well, actually, no. They're all going to be pretty useful. Um, at least getting the sprayer, uh, fixed with, uh, pulse modulation. Um, and then possibly around planting season. Oh, and we are full. Okay. So, yeah, a little bit over two trailers. So it might still be worth it to mow. Um, if they grow up a little bit bigger, hopefully we're not going to run the risk of deleting the tree just because we simply bumped it with the mower. Uh, we're going to have three months before that grass is ready to mow again. So we'd be looking at mowing again in July. So, that's going to be good little ways away. And maybe be able to get another growth stage out of these trees before that cut. I don't think I am going to go ahead and mow those just yet. I might save that for next episode if I decide to cut it even at all. Uh, now, cows. Cows is another thing that we wanted to invest in. Now, we don't currently have enough money to deal with cows either. We have what we need to feed them, but the cow pen itself and then buying the cows is quite pricey. Unless we just stick with a super small pen and maybe fit only 20 cows. I'm not sure how good 20 cows is going to be as far as milk production. I think we are producing way more food than 20 cows can eat. and that would just leave us for the most part with that secondary grove of trees just sitting over there. because one of the uh, one of the cow pens that I installed is a lot smaller. Um, it's about the size of the chicken coop and it can fit about 20 cows in it. and then there's another one from that mod that uh, it's still a it doesn't have a pasture so we can't really extend how much there is. It pretty much only relies on the food that we give it. So no meadow grazing. and it holds 40 cows? And so that that might be an option. And then we just continue to grow trees over there in the grass over there. But I mean 40 cows is still 40 cows. So that might be the way forward is just go ahead and forego the pin for cow for uh taking the 40 cows and producing milk already. Now that is something that we would possibly be able afford let's let's go ahead and take a look while we're dumping. Um alright so yeah what I was talking about here is but it's a breeding barn so milk production wouldn't happen man hmm I don't think what about this one so this would be 36,000 which is right in our price range I know I don't have it at the moment but we'd be able to put that down right over here still want to give us a little bit of space space to get in and out of our silo and then space to get up to our house hmm and that's tough so we'd have to almost put it right up against the trees right there and we'd still be able to go in so what about this one okay that's about the same size that has so for an extra $3,500 we can get five extra cows in there hmm and that would actually allow us to have that that's not even worth it um that'd be 50 cows for 40,000 and of course buying the cows as well but yeah I didn't even think that these were yep okay um and I'm not sure if I do have a mod on here to add milk oh but it's 30,000 okay yeah I think I think it'd be worth it just to go ahead and buy the one that allows for uh milk versus buying that extension so I'm not thinking unless we just buy calves and then add the extension in a little bit later once they're raised up a little bit but I was thinking even if we just buy 10 cows 10 adult cows that would that would that would help us out milk wise a lot more than just selling the silage outright so that is something to think about that do we want to go with buffalo the water buffalo or do we want to go with cows I know buffalo milk sells for a ton more but the cows themselves produce a ton more milk than what buffalo does hmm a lot of decisions to make around this farm so we're definitely going to be looking at those in the future but I am going to go ahead and get this all picked up and we'll get it compacted and we will see you guys once I am done with that so we can spread some lime out on this field alright so we will see you all then alright so we just finished compacting our silage so get that covered and then our roller put away I almost think we should put the roller clear in the back because we don't use it nearly as much as we do the mower so I think that's going to be what we're going to want to do so get this put away and then we will grab our fertilizer spreader I think it should be empty and probably our pallet forks and go get some lime hopefully we can get all the lime we need quick fast and in a hurry and then we'll get that thrown down not sure with this no it took four I want to say four pallets of lime last time we did this field but that was also with the old spreader so we will want to probably take a look at that actually I think what we'll do is I know our trailer is probably going to be needed so I think we'll take our spreader down to the other end of the farm so we can start as soon as we get down there and then we will grab our trailer and bring that up with us to the shop to go ahead and purchase our lime um although hmm we need four pallets don't we so I wonder even if we go ahead and that's probably not going to be a good place for that so we'll go ahead and place this down here I wonder if we take our box instead of the whole trailer will that be something that will be useful because we don't quite have a whole uh yeah we don't have a whole bucket of stones at the moment so we can just pile that there um but can we just trying to see is there a way to open it so if I lower it is there gonna be x nope okay but there is tension belts so what we can do is we will oh pick that back up real quick turn off that we'll grab our pallet forks and we'll run up to the shop and grab our lime we should be able to fit two in the back and use that as a counterweight uh and have the other two on our forks I think that's what we can do and get that done and uh if I can yeah okay so we are gonna go ahead and drop off our bucket we'll need that next month when we go to sell our silage which did get a little over 170 why is that okay what did I ah okay so up and down oh okay good to know we can lower the uh tailgate on it nice okay so we're gonna go ahead and run and grab our lime that we're gonna need I believe four pallets should be fine for this field but we will definitely see and hope these four pallets is what eighteen hundred dollars so we can afford it at the moment if we're only putting lime down every three cuts on the field that's not too terribly bad I know it would increase our yield a little bit more if we threw it down every every cut but that's just I don't think that's gonna be cost efficient compared to what the difference is in yield so we will lower this down and disconnect it and then run to the shop real quick I don't get stuck on the pallet forks tripping over and we will grab some lime okay so we need four pallets of lime no $1800 okay so we should be able to get two in the back granted we're gonna have to grab them one at a time and then then we can have those just readily available to load into our fertilizer spreader I don't think I got that in the right place there we go all right and is it being ready honestly we might be able to fit all four of them in here and then we just have all of them ready to go right next to it now I'm not sure how heavy or what that's gonna do to our tractor trying to lift that much and take it down but I think we should be fine I don't think we're gonna tip backwards can I push it yeah well yeah so we'll get this all loaded and we'll get down there and I will see you guys once we are down with the lime alright so we brought the lime down I did go ahead and just bring it on the forks just to save a little bit of time there so we're gonna go ahead and get this filled up we do want to go ahead and make sure that we are running into our market but we want to go ahead and set up our our lines and then we'll build this up should be about a thousand liters if I remember correctly yep okay awesome and then we will hop into the field spread out some lime I do want to get a running start on this just because it seems to prevent getting those deep blue areas as much as long as we are driving already so definitely making the field look a whole lot better lime wise oh but that's already half a pallet gone right there hmm all right so we're definitely going to end up using a lot more lime than I initially predicted hey at least it used the same pallet twice okay but I think getting a running start on distributing the lime is the way I want to go that way we're not piling lime up at the start but I guess I let our field get so bad lime wise that it just cost us one pallet to do the first first pass on the field just not the greatest so we're going to end up probably having to get another two pallets I think yeah I think I will jump ahead and I will let you guys know how many more pallets we had to buy if you would like please drop a guess down in the comments and see how many pallets of lime this field is going to take and I will let you know once we get back alright so we just finished liming the field I'm not sure why there's that red line right there in the middle but not a whole lot we can do about that um ones on the border I'm pretty sure just because that grass right there is not mowed and so we couldn't get the lime down so I did go ahead and buy another four pallets um and yeah so we used about five and a half pallets total to lime the field so not as efficient as our spreader that we had before but honestly it kind of saves us a little bit of time um to do this so now that all the liming is done we are going to go ahead and get everything put away we're going to get yeah we're going to put the mower away we're going to put the fertilizer spreader away um and then yeah we should be able to see you guys next in the next month and we should be able to put down some liquid fertilizer we definitely should be able to afford once we sell off our lettuce and silage again we should be able to afford to upgrade our sprayer a little bit um in order to put that pulse modulation on it so that's what our goals are moving forward is to go ahead and get our our sprayer upgraded for the fertilizer and then we will look at doing uh the weeding upgrade a little bit later on in the season probably when we get closer to planting down crops again yeah I think I will leave the I need the pallet forks so we'll go ahead and grab our lime and bring that up and put that in the shed in case it rains and then we yeah we'll get everything put away but definitely thank you all for joining us if you liked the video please smash that like button and consider hitting the subscribe button if you enjoyed the content I've put out on the series so far it definitely is appreciated feel free to drop any comments in the box down below I do try to answer all the comments that I can I do enjoy talking with you guys so until next time peace well so you me me you you you you you you