What is organic farming organic products organic certification? Explained.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CedYtQvSJV0
People & Blogs
 What is organic farming? Organic farming is an agricultural system which is performed without the application of any type of chemical fertilizers and synthetic pesticides. Opposed to traditional farming where a lot of chemicals are used for growth of crops. So let's look at how did organic farming start? Before the advent of chemical fertilizers, agriculture was practiced for thousands of years without the use of artificial chemicals. Use of fertilizers started in early 19th century. Though this increased the yield, long term side effects like decreased soil fertility and many fertilizers were found to be harmful to health. This gave rise to organic farming. There are many different methods and techniques used in it. First method is the use of manure. Manure consists of straw, leaves, roots and parts of other plants and also animal feces which is decomposed together. Weed Management Weeds which are unwanted plants that grow aside the main crop are removed by manual processes. Controlling organisms such as pests by using eco-friendly methods. Natural predators like ladybugs which eats other insects is used. Microorganisms are also used for improving soil health. Next is crop rotation. Two different plants are grown in crop rotation. When the first plant is harvested, the second plant is sown. Crop rotation helps to improve the soil health and optimizes nutrients in the soil. For example, if a farmer grows corn as his main crop. When the corn harvest is finished, he might plant beans since corn consumes a lot of nitrogen. And beans return nitrogen to the soil. What are organic products? Organic products are nothing but the products which are made from the materials produced by organic farming. They do not contain any types of chemical fertilizers or pesticides. All the organic farms and organic products require a certification. Certification is provided by governmental bodies. In India, it is done by NPOP through third party inspection or by PGS. In the US, it is done by USDA. At the international level, standards are set by IFOM which is legally enforced by many nations. The popularity of organically grown foods is increasing day by day only to the nutritional and health benefits. In India, very good example is Sikkim which is 100% organic in farming. Internationally, India stands at the 9th position and covers about 1.94 million hectares of area under organic certification. While the first position is held by Australia which covers about 35 million hectares. There are few disadvantages of organic farming. One of them is low yield. Compared to traditional fertilizer farming, so more land is required for an equivalent amount of yield. Due to the absence of any pesticides, the chances of getting spoiled are higher. And due to these factors, organic products are generally more expensive. So that's all in organic farming. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.