Farm Hand | How to Play | Learn to Play in 5 Minutes!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cEq2_6oG9lc
Gaming
 Hello everybody my name is Olya and my name is Tyler together we make up Kavri a couple that loves to play board games. Today we'll be teaching you how to play Farmhand. Farmhand! Farmhand is designed by Craig Somerton it's published by Grail Games who helped sponsor this video. Let's jump to the table and let's learn how to play. As always you'll begin by setting up. You'll place all the scoring tokens in the general supply in the center of your playing area. Next to tokens you'll place the round tracking card with a cube on the round one space. Each player will receive a wooden token, a player aid and a bidding card. You'll then choose a dealer. They'll shuffle the 21 animal cards and deal out a number of cards equal to your round and player count. In the first round this will always be one. After dealing you'll set the rest of the cards aside. They'll be used again in the next round. You're now ready to play. Farmhand is a trick-taking game which means players will take turns playing one card each into a round. This is called a trick. The highest card wins the trick and the winner collects the set of cards for scoring. Now a catch with Farmhand is that if any of the cards have the same value they cancel out and cannot win the trick. For example the winner here is a player with a three as it's the next highest card. Now you'll also be given information in your opponent's hands by the back of their cards. You'll know which numbers they may have and can make a prediction based on what you see in your hand. The numbers the cards may be are shown on the cards or on your reference cards. Now Farmhand is played in six rounds and each round will have three phases. A bidding phase where you'll aim to predict how many tricks you'll win. A trick-taking phase where you'll play cards and collect tricks hoping to meet your bid. And a scoring phase where you'll score based on your bid and tricks collected. Let's go over each phase. In the bidding phase you'll take a look at your cards and the backs of your opponent's cards to try to predict how many tricks you think you'll win. Once ready you'll say EIEIO and put out a number with your fingers representing to how many tricks you think you'll win on the O. You'll then mark this number on your bidding card. Now we're on to the trick-taking phase. Here the player to the left of the dealer will start by playing one card to the trick. All players after the lead card has been set must play a card of the same color or suit if they're able to. If not they may play any card from their hand. When all players have played a card into the trick the highest number card wins regardless of the suit. But again if two or more of the same number cards are played they'll cancel out and the next highest card will win instead. Now whoever won that trick will collect the cards and set them aside in a pile. They'll lead the next trick if there's still cards left in hands. Now once everyone has played all of the cards in their hand you'll move to the scoring phase. Here all players will compare the number of tricks they won against their bid. If your bid and your tricks won match exactly you'll score points equal to the value of the current round. So one point around one two points for round two and three for third and etc. If your bid and tricks did not match you'll lose a point for the difference between your bid and the tricks you've collected. And yes negative points are present within this game. After scoring you return all the cards to the center. You'll shift the round marker down. The next player clock list from the previous dealer will be the dealer for the following round. They'll shuffle all the cards deal an amount corresponding to the round tracker and player count to each player. You'll then repeat. The game will end once six rounds have passed. The player with the highest total score is the winner. If the winning scores are tied you can replay the last round until winner has emerged. Only playing with two players? Well the game will introduce a tabletop player named Mac. Mac is dealt in every round and will play their turn just like a third player. Consider Mac as sitting to the right of the first dealer. They'll play second in the first turn. Mac's cards are always face down so that both players are able to see the backs of each card. Mac will always play the topmost card in their hand except if Mac has to follow suit. Then Mac will play the topmost card matching the lead suit. Here are Mac's bids for the game. And yes Mac can beat both of you. And that's farmhand. Do you have any questions? Leave them in the comments down below and we'll get back to you as soon as we possibly can. And of course if you found this video helpful hit that thumbs up button hit that subscribe button because we love to talk board games. And for our question of the day what is your favorite farm animal? Eeeaw. Eeeaw. A donkey? I feel like it has to be a donkey. No mine's a rooster. It wakes you up, it keeps time, and it protects. Yeah that's fair. If you want to learn more about this game check out the description down below. It is coming to crowdfunding and you can learn much much more about it down there. Exactly. Until next time though we will see you later. Byeee!