Hay Hay Hay 3! Fertilizing the Hay & Cattle Pastures! and our new 4th of July Calf!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cErWebAxY8I
Howto & Style
 Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. There are... I have put eight bales in here, but it actually made seven. I brought one from outside to make an eight-bale row right there. So there's eight. All right. And go on across here. And this little field right here, it made a lot because there was no second cutting on it last year. So it was the old stuff and the new stuff all together. And it actually made more hay. It's two acres and it made seven bales. So you go into the next field, which is the big hay field. One of the big hay fields. And right here, we made a tiny one and then about a half a bale. And then there's a... Let's see how many we got there. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, and then a half a bale and then a tiny bale. So we're going to consider that half a bale and a tiny bale, one bale. So eight bales right there. All right. So that's 16. Then we move across here. These hay fields are rough. I know they look smooth as glass from the air, but hay fields are always rough. So, so we had 16. Here's another eight bale row. Two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight. So that makes 24. So we got 24 bales so far. All right. So we got those 24. Then we go across here. And here is another row of hay. Eight bales there. So that makes 32. All right. So we got 32 bales, which is pretty sad for the amount of area that we, we actually baled. We baled, we baled a pretty huge area. You saw from the air. I mean, I think, I think all of the hay baling area is about 60 acres of open ground. So, you know, we're not doing good so far on the amount of hay. So we got 32 bales so far. Now I'm going to take a shortcut and cut up through here. Just kind of a little shortcut to another field. Kind of a neighbor area. All right. Cut around behind here. Pretty narrow little spot right here. All right. Remember, we had 32 bales. All right. 32 bales. All right. There's eight over there. That's 40. All right. So there's, that makes 40 right there. There we go. All right. So there's, that makes 40 right there. There are eight bales straight ahead of me. So that makes 48. With this eight here. And then we got right over here. And we have another eight. Right there. So, all in all, we have, 56 bales. 56 bales. We fed about 75 bales last year. So, and my brother needs at least 30. So we're going to have to at least make 100, 510 bales in order to kind of break even this year. So, the good news is, it, well, bad news. Bad news, it's 100 today. Bad news, it's supposed to start cooling off today. And there are chances of rain coming. Several chances of rain over the next two weeks. They're not great chances, but they are chances. So if we get some rain, there's a possibility we can get that second cutting that we need. But right now we are in a deficit on hay. The slow when here's a tunnel is, you're. I know the high-pen walk. There's a lot of Hopkins have too many. And terrible bogs near this push zone. There has nichts on there. Because of the law and may sign up and be. So we Iyai and I have to find some rain on one grand text, but we are natürlichilled with some rain remember our shipping. In the field that has been ekandいます. Oh, man. No, no. No, no, no. No, no, no. so Alright folks, that is when the microphone decided to die. So what we have here is we have a 32 10 10 ratio of fertilizer. It is nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium. 32 nitrogen so it's a nitrogen rich. And what they do is they take a skid steer and they load this hopper with the amount that we wanted. It goes from the hopper into a tumbler and what that does is just like mixing concrete. It goes into that into that shot in there by the conveyor and it is mixed up well inside of that inside of that little tumbler there. So then after it is mixed well in the tumbler it goes on to that conveyor belt that's right there below it and that conveyor belt it runs up and it loads itself right into the trailer that I'm pulling the fertilizer trailer. So this is purchased four tons of this and the and I and I hate it because he wanted to know what I was doing what I was feeling I believe his name is either I think it's Jason or Jaden. He was helping me out with with putting the fertilizer in there and he was doing a he was doing a bang-up job and I really appreciate his help getting me lined up getting the the trailer lined up and that's why I can get on it real good and and smoothing out the fertilizer so it wasn't you know flying out whenever I was going down the road. So yep I appreciated their help down at the co-op so anyway the fertilizer cost was a little bit north of $2,500 so okay this is more area where the audio was broken so what I'm showing is how to work the fertilizer trailer so what you do is you pull this pin right here that holds a lever once you get the pin out you're able to move the lever to the side and what you're trying to do is you slide it up past this plate right here and then you lock it in once you do that that rod runs this little wheel with fins on it which pushes down into that tire which engages that and then you'll see right here there's some belts that run the actual conveyor system and the and the actual spinners that that throw the fertilizer this is a gauge that shows actually a chart that shows if you want to flow a certain amount of fertilizer then you have a gate opening rate that you use so we're going to do 200 pounds per acre and it's going to be like a two and a half inch gate opening and and I run the truck at about oh five to seven miles an hour to get the required 200 pounds of fertilizer so what I'm doing right here is I'm actually opening that gate up to the two and a half inch mark to allow the fertilizer to flow and that you can see the fertilizer is sitting actually on a conveyor and it brings it back and runs it onto these actual spinner wheels that are that that I failed to get video of right then that are below that so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so the so until We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. All right, folks. I've got all the fertilizer spread. I've got it spread all over the property here where the cattle are, where the hay is. You can see the nitrogen on the ground here. So what we're attempting to do now is wait out the rain. When the rain comes, then this will just take off. But in the meantime, I saw something whenever I was driving around here, and I need to find it if I can. I didn't think it was going to be this quick, but I believe we've got a new baby calf. So let me find that if I can. I'm looking. Oh, there she is. Found her. Right here. Here. With her new baby. This is 23 cow. She is Minnie's mama. And that is Danny's baby. And look at them ears. And this baby appears to have just been born. But it's up. And it's moving around well. And she looks like she's got a bag. Oh, don't fall down. I wonder if this is a little bull or a heifer. Well, look at those ears. You can sure tell Danny's your daddy. We got a little heifer. Little heifer. Little heifer. So. That's a keeper. All right. Just going to kind of leave them alone for a minute. I need some help with this. I need to get an ear tag in that calf. Let me see if I can. Maybe my brother's home and he can come give me a hand. I don't know. We will see. I'm going to leave them alone for a minute. Anyway. We got a new baby on Gillum Farms. All right. The next cow that's getting ready to have a calf is right here. This is Oreo. And she has got her bag going real well. And she should be having a calf just any day. So Oreo is next in line. Followed by two or three of the other cattle. So yeah. So yeah. Oreo is coming. She'll be next. So that'll be the next calf. That update should be just any day. All right. What a day. What a day. We got the fertilizing all done on both properties on the hayfield and out here where the cattle are. We had a complete surprise when we got here. Whenever I found that our number 23 cow had had a nice little heifer calf out of Danny. This is our first calf from Danny. And you know you always wonder if that bull that you bought is going to be a good bull. You know. We bought that bull. We didn't test him ourselves. But the fellow told us he tested him. He came out good. And he showed me pictures of all of his calves. And he had a lot of nice calves. And you can definitely tell this is Danny's baby. I mean he's got those ears. So. But anyway. So now we've got a new calf. We got everything all fertilized up. I guess the next thing I got to do is I got to come out here and do some brush hogging. I need to ear tag this calf. It's a little bit. I've got to get that buggy back to the co-op because I've got it rented. And I've got to get it back before they close. So I'm going to run it back. And I need to brush hog here. I noticed that the briars down on the other side of the pond are really taking over. So I need to come down and brush hog. And I need to see if I can get an ear tag in that calf. So that'll probably be the next time. So anyway. Everybody's happy, happy, happy. And we've got a new baby. So. If you like this type of content. Like and subscribe. And we'll continue to bring more content in the future. And as always everybody. God bless.