Forage Management 2
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ch7X6smgTZg
Education
 All right, welcome back. Today we're at the Coastal Plain Branch Experiment Station in Newton, Mississippi and we've got several topics that I wanted to discuss today. Last time we talked a little bit about grazing management today. We're kind of shift focus to some hay management hay production. We'll kind of go from establishment to fertility management, kind of in a first-year establishment type of production. And oftentimes I get a lot of calls in terms of what variety do I need to plant, what species do I need to plant in terms of a hay crop. And what you're looking at here today is a seeded perennial grass hay trowel. And so we've got hay grass varieties, we've got Bermuda grass varieties. And from a hay standpoint oftentimes our our high Bermuda grass is the ones that are established by rhizome or by Stolon typically are a little bit higher in quality. But a lot of folks usually bulk at the price when it comes to getting those established. And so oftentimes they resort to plant and seeded varieties. And so this trial hopefully will do a good job at kind of mimicking some of the varieties of choice that they might choose and then also some of the the fertility treatments that they'll be applying. And so you can still if you get down here in the crown you can obviously tell that this was established I think it was around the first week of June, last week of May. You can still see the rows that the sod hadn't necessarily gapped the or fully established into the crown. And you can definitely see the hay grass varieties and see the rows. But this was planted like I said in the last week of May I think. And we've gotten we took our first harvest off of this last week. And so we've got a good 60 days of growth from the time we established it to the time we actually made our first cutting in that first year. And and oftentimes when we recommend establishing these perennial grasses we hope to get one cutting off of it from a hay crop standpoint. But this year it looks like we might be able to get two potentially three just because of the amount of rainfall that we've gotten. Just another couple things to consider when you're planting some of these small seeded perennial grasses planting depth is crucial. A lot of times guys like to use drills, heavy equipment which is good. It allows you to cover acreage really fast but it also inevitably leads to planting that seed too deep. And usually when when we plant these small seeded perennial crops you know quarter of an inch to less. Usually when we run behind the drill we like to see about a third of that seed kind of scattered on top of the the seed bank. That'll that kind of lets us know that the rest of that seed the other two-thirds is just underneath that soil surface. In terms of planting rates, bahiagrass is usually around that 20 pound of seed per acre mark. Bermuda grass varieties from a seed standpoint are around 10 pounds of seed per acre. But one thing you've got to consider is seed coatings. Most of the time your bahiagrass varieties are pure seed but your bermudagrass usually comes with a seed coating. So anywhere from 40 to 60 percent of that bag could be in that coating. So you have to account for that in your seeding rates. I guess in terms of fertility management, so we've got our variety differences that are out here but we've also got eight fertility treatments that we're looking at in this trial. Those range from just general triple 13 applications we've got two poultry litter applications. We've got several combinations of nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium. But one thing that you've got to consider regardless of the type of material that you're using or the strategy that you're trying to implement on your hay production is is nutrient removal. When it comes to bahiagrass and bermudagrass, you're removing anywhere from about 35 pounds per acre of nitrogen in bahiagrass all the way up to about 50 to 55 pounds of nitrogen per acre. I'm sorry not per acre but per ton in bermudagrass. So when you think about removing say two tons of bermudagrass you're looking at removing about 100 pounds of nitrogen. So if you're looking at multiple cuttings a year you need to manage your nitrogen in a way that you're replenishing the amount that you're actually putting in the field. Another element that's key from a fertility management standpoint the hay hay production system is potash. A lot of folks are really good about reapplying nitrogen but in bermudagrass especially you're removing almost just as much potash or potassium as you are in nitrogen. So we try to make the recommendation whenever you're reapplying nutrients make sure that you're reapplying potash as well. Potash is very important in terms of disease resistance, winter hardiness, making those plants a little bit more tough and rigorous against pest damage. So we have to really make sure that we're not only reapplying nitrogen but also potash. Another two of those treatments in this trial are poultry litter applications in this area of the state use a lot of poultry litter. Oftentimes some of our producers are applying litter based on the nitrogen demands in that crop and when you think about the nitrogen that's in poultry litter it's in most of the time it's in an organic standpoint and so it has to be mineralized in order for that crop to bring it up. And so when you're applying poultry litter to a hay field a lot of the times that nitrogen is not going to be immediately available to that that first cutting or second cutting it'll be that third or fourth or maybe subsequent years before that nitrogen is actually mineralized into a plant available form to where it can be taken up. So oftentimes we recommend using poultry litter based on a potassium or maybe even a phosphorus standpoint based on your soil test but from a nitrogen standpoint a lot of times we'll supplement that poultry litter with an inorganic source of nitrogen to kind of complement the organic source that you're getting from the litter. And so this this trial kind of encompasses not only seeded varieties that are commonly used from an establishment phase but also about eight different combinations of commonly recommended or commonly utilized fertility treatments. And so what we'll do is we'll we'll actually take harvest from this trial, we'll measure yield from these trials, we'll measure forage quality and then all at the end of it we'll do an economic analysis that goes from establishment throughout that incorporates seed costs, fertility applications, herbicide applications, insecticide applications, whatever we apply to these plots and basically do a uniform full spectrum economic analysis that kind of depicts what you can expect from establishment to the first or second year of a hay crop from these perennial seeded varieties.