Life Story of a Farm Wife in the 1900s - Firsthand Account
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cHrqRX8w2jE
Education
 I have been a farmer's wife in one of the states of the Middle West for 13 years, and everybody knows that the farmer's wife must of a necessity be a very practical woman if she would be a successful one. I am not a practical woman, and consequently have been accounted a failure by practical friends, and especially by my husband, who is wholly practical. We are told that the mating of people of opposite natures promotes intellectuality in the offspring. But I think that happy homes are of more consequence than extreme precocity of children. I believe that people who are thinking of mating do not even consider whether it is to be the one or the other. We do know that when people of opposite tastes get married, there's a discordant note runs through their entire married life. It's only a question of which one has the stronger will in determining which tastes shall predominate. In our case, my husband has the stronger will. He is innocent of book learning, is a natural hustler who believes that the only way to make an honest living lies in digging it out of the ground, so to speak. And being a farmer, he finds plenty of digging to do. He has an inherited tendency to be miserly, loves money for its own sake rather than for its purchasing power. And when he has it in his possession, he is loathe to part with it, even for the most necessary articles, and prefers to eschew hired help in every possible instance that what he does make may be his very own. No man can run a farm without someone to help him, and in this case, I have always been called upon and expected to help do anything that a man would be expected to do. I began this when we were first married, when there were few household duties and no reasonable excuse for refusing to help. I was reared on a farm, was healthy and strong, was ambitious, and the work was not disagreeable. And having no children for the first six years of married life, the habit of going whenever asked to became firmly fixed, and he had no thought of hiring a man to help him since I could do anything for which he needed help. I was always religiously inclined, brought up to attend Sunday school, not in a haphazard way, but to attend every Sunday all the year round, and when I was 12 years old, I was appointed teacher to a Sunday school class, a position I proudly held until I married at 18 years of age. I was an apt student at school, and before I was 18, I had earned a teacher's certificate of the second grade, and would gladly have remained in school a few more years. But I had, unwittingly, agreed to marry the man who is now my husband. And though I begged to be released, his will was so much stronger that I was unable to free myself without wounding a loving heart, and could not find it in my nature to do so. All through life, I have found my dislike for giving offense to be my undoing. When we were married and moved away from my home church, I would have adopted the church of my new residence. But my husband did not like to go to church, had rather go visiting on Sundays, and rather than have my right hand give offense, I cut it off. I always had a passion for reading. During girlhood, it was along educational lines. In young womanhood, it was for love stories, which remained ungratified because my father thought it sinful to read stories of any kind, and especially love stories. Later, when I was married, I borrowed everything I could find in the line of novels and stories, and read them by stealth still. For my husband thought it a willful waste of time to read anything, and that it showed a lack of love for him if I would rather read than to talk to him when I had a few moments of leisure, and in order to avoid giving offense and still gratify my desire, I would only read when he was not at the house, thereby greatly curtailing my already too limited reading hours. In reading miscellaneously, I got glimpses now and then of the great poets and authors, which aroused a great desire for a thorough perusal of them all. But up till the present time, I have not been permitted to satisfy this desire. As the years have rolled on, there has been more work and less leisure, until it is only by the greatest effort that I may read current news. The addition of two children to our family never altered or interfered with the established order of things to any appreciable extent. My strenuous outdoor life agreed with me, and even when my children were born, I was splendidly prepared for the ordeal and made rapid recovery. I still hoed and tended the truck patches and garden, still watered the stock and put out feed for them, still went to the hayfield and helped harvest and house the bounteous crops, still helped harvest the golden grain later on when the cereals ripened, often took one team and dragged ground to prepare the seedbed for wheat for weeks at the time, while my husband was using the other team on another farm, which he owned several miles away. While the children were babies, they were left at the house, and when they were larger, they would go with me to my work. Now they are large enough to help a little during the summer and to go to school in winter. They help a great deal during the fruit canning season. In fact, can and do work at almost everything, pretty much as I do. As a matter of course, there's hardly two days together which require the same routine, yet every day is as fully occupied in some way or other as this one, with varying tasks as the seasons change. Oats are sown in March and April, but I do not help do that, because the ground is too cold. Later in June, we harvest clover hay, in July, Timothy hay, and in August, pea hay. Winter wheat is ready to harvest the latter part of June, and oats the middle of July. These are the main crops, supplemented by cabbages, melons, potatoes, and tomatoes. Fully half of my time is devoted to helping my husband, more than half during the active work season, and not that much during the winter months. Only a very small portion of my time is devoted to reading. My reading matter accumulates during the week, and I think I will stay at home on Sunday and read, but as we have many visitors on Sunday, I am generally disappointed. I sometimes visit my friends on Sunday, because they are so insistent that I should, though I would prefer spending the day reading quietly at home. I have never had a vacation, but if I should be allowed one, I should certainly be pleased to spend it in an art gallery. I have always had an itching to write, and with all my multitudinous cares, I have writ ten, in a fitful way, for several papers, which do not pay for such matter, just because I was pleased to see my articles in print. I have a long list of correspondents, who write regularly and often to me, and, by hook and crook, I keep up with my letter writing, for, next to reading, I love to write and receive letters, though my husband says I will break him up buying so much writing material, when, as a matter of course, I pay for it out of my own scanty income. I suppose it is impossible for a woman to do her best at everything which she would like to do, but I really would like to. I almost cut sleep out of my routine in trying to keep up all the rows which I have started in on. In the short winter days, I just get the cooking and house straightening done, in addition to looking after the stock and poultry, and make a garment occasionally, and wash and iron the clothes. All the other work is done after night by lamplight, and when the work for the day is over, or at least the most pressing part of it, and the family are all asleep and no one to forbid it, I spend a few hours writing or reading. There came in my way the literature of a correspondence school, which would teach, among other things, short story writing by mail. It set forth all the advantages of a literary career, and proposed properly to equip its students in that course for a consideration. The school has proven very trustworthy, and I am in the midst of a course of instruction, which is very pleasing to me, and I find time for study and exercise between the hours of 8 and 11 at night, when the family are asleep and quiet. I am instructed to read a great deal, with a certain purpose in view, but that is impossible, since I had to promise my husband that I would drop all my papers, periodicals, etc., on which I was paying out money for subscription, before he would consent to my taking the course. This I felt willing to do, that I might prepare myself for more congenial tasks. I hope to accomplish something worthy of note in a literary way, since I have been a failure in all other pursuits. My motto has always been, strive to excel, and it has caused worry wrinkles to mar my countenance, because I could not, under the circumstances, excel in any particular thing. When critical housewives spend the day with me, I always feel that my surroundings appear to a disadvantage. They cannot possibly know the inside workings of our home, and knowing myself to be capable of the proper management of a home, if I had the chance of others, I feel like I am receiving a mental criticism from them, which is unmerited, and when these smart neighbors tell me proudly how many young chicks they have, and how many eggs and old hens they have sold during the year, I am made to feel that they are crowing over their shrewdness, which they regard as lacking in me, because they will persist in measuring my opportunities by their own. I might add that the neighbors among whom I live are illiterate and unmusical, and that my redeeming qualities, in their eyes, are my superior education and musical abilities. They are kind enough to give me more than justice on these qualities, because they are poor judges of such matters. But money is king, and if I might turn my literary bent to account and surround myself with the evidences of prosperity, I may yet hope fully to redeem myself in their eyes, and I know that I will have attained my ambition in that line. Before establec own It should be time, and if you are and whether you will have years and freakin' It should be time for your fiction, and hopefully nurse your Kevin's teaching to bring me about you before the birth of the life and the children's experience of joy that I am growing up in that line. We will live without anotherly. Arbeits fly and death Remember an naven writing Anything in Parce Them With usarlo filled with youоф exportinginflammation