How to Make Seed Starting & Potting Up Mixes on a Budget: Materials Mix Ratios My Formula
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cj90Wpoz42c
Howto & Style
 Welcome to the Rusted Garden Homestead. Today I want to show you the rusted garden recipe for making a seed starting mix and for a potting up or potting mix. This is going to save you a lot of money. It's effective. I've been doing this really for at least 10 years. It really works. Let's go over the basic ingredients and then I'm going to show you how my mix compares to Jiffy mix. A pre-made mix you can buy. Nothing wrong with this product. It's about $7.50 for this bag and that's 12 dry quarts. It can get expensive but for convenience sake I understand you pay $7.50 and it works really really well. What we're going to make today is going to look very similar to that. What you're going to need to buy and you're going to have to spend up front. For instance that bag was $7.50 you buy 10 of those bags at $75. You're going to easily go through that much if you're you know guarding on any kind of scale really. Just wanted to cut in and show you what we're going to be making. This is a great way to save 75% off the cost of buying pre-made starting mixes and potting up mixes. I really like this formulation. I'm probably going to stick with this for 2024. Every year I change things a little bit but I'm going to show you everything you need to know to make something that looks just like this. Where you might be starting seeds indoors growing on three or four wire racks. You got a lot going on. You're going to need a lot of starting mix. If you buy in bulk so the first thing I recommend is peat moss. Canadian peat moss three cubic foot bag. This is just a fraction of what's in there because it's compressed and you can see all the mix that we have in there. That's maybe I don't know five dollars worth of material in there. I still have a whole compressed bale outside in my garage. It's going to cost you anywhere from 20 to 28 dollars depending on where you buy it. I take this inside. I keep it in containers just like you see. This is vermiculite. This is a mineral. I believe it's a silicate. It gets heated up. It expands and it's great for holding water. Keeping the starting mix loose. I use these two things primarily for a starting mix and then I add in some perlite which is also a mineral. It's heated. It expands and it's really to kind of loosen up the soil. If I'm growing in a bigger container or something like that I may add in the perlite. Vermiculite I recommend going to Uline. I'm not affiliated with them but you can get grade one. It's either called very fine or super fine vermiculite. Four cubic feet. I think it's about 40 dollars plus shipping. So real quick you might be spending 80 dollars to get really massive amounts of this but it's going to go a long way. To make it you want to do a ratio. Three parts peat moss, one part vermiculite, or one and a half parts vermiculite. What is a part? It's an equal container, an equal ratio. So it can be any size container. You just have to make sure you fill this three times with peat moss. That's three parts peat moss and then one part you fill it with vermiculite, one part vermiculite. And I like to have a little trash can so we put in one part. Then we're going to fill this up three times. It does get dusty. You may want to do this out in the garage. So that's one part. And you get the idea. And that's three parts peat moss. You want to make sure that you don't take outdoor peat moss, compost, leaf mold, bring it inside and start growing in it. Because the temperatures in the house stayed about 65, 70 degrees, you're going to have an outbreak of possible insects, diseases, and stuff that'll just run crazy. So you want to use a sterile starting mix. You don't need soil life to get your transplant started indoors. You can give them all the soil if they want once they get outside. So you want to hydrate this. This is all dry. Let's start mixing it up a little bit. You want to hydrate this with boiling water. And that will kill off any fungus net eggs. The vermiculite is sterile. Nothing is really in that. Peat moss could have fungus net eggs. And if you've ever had fungus nets, you know what a problem it is. And you really just want to mix this through. We're not putting in any fertilizers at this point. Again, everything is sterile. And just look at how nice that looks. It's not even been, you know, hydrated in any way yet. This is a perfect seed starting mix and a perfect base for a potting up mix. I just want you to look at it real closely. Let's take a look to see what the Jiffy mix looks like. Here's the Jiffy mix. It's very light. It's also dry. And if I put it down here, you can see it's really pretty much peat moss. There's some vermiculite in there. Not as much as I put in. I like to add a little bit more. I think this makes a great base mix. You can substitute your peat moss with cocoa core if you want to. They both have pros and cons and you just have to research and decide which one, you know, works best for you. Or you could do 50% peat, 50% cocoa core, but it would still be three parts of whatever you're using in this side, one part vermiculite. This is the bag of Jiffy mix just to show you how much is in there. And then I put in another round of three parts peat, one part vermiculite into here so that they're about comparable in volume. This really is going to cost you $2 or less to make. If you're going to buy it, it's going to cost you about $7.50. It's a really, really good savings. Again, everything should be sterile. I'm going to add in the water. We'll come back to this in a second. If you want to see how I use boiling water, just search my channel, boiling water. I have plenty of videos on that. We're not going to worry about fertilizers or anything like this until about five to seven days after the plant germinates. They live off of the seed coat. And then you can really just use water-soluble fertilizer in a diluted amount. Again, please follow me and I'll teach you how to do this through 2024. And that's going to take care of your plant. But we could also add in some worm castings. We don't have to get too fancy. We don't have to add in a lot of stuff. We're just going to really take care of these plants based on the rusted garden ratio for the seed starting mix and use water-soluble fertilizer. The perlite is an additional cost. You can find that in your big box stores in different places. And you're just not going to need a lot of it. You don't need it for the starting mix. If you want to do it, go ahead. It's perfectly fine. So just to go over this again, it's three parts peat, one part vermiculite. That makes the seed starting mix. I did this twice in here to bring the volume up to the top of the container. So it was six parts peat, two parts vermiculite. If I'm making up the potting up mix, it's three parts peat, one part vermiculite, and a half part, a half the container size of perlite. But because I did it twice, I'm using a full container. Just mix it through. And this is what it looks like when it's done. You could use this again as a starting mix. I'm just saying you don't have to spend the money on the perlite if you don't want to. But this is just beautiful. It's a great container mix. You can fill your containers with it. A couple of bucks to make it yourself. You're going to have to spend more if you buy it pre-made. And I think there's not much of anything in here. There's no perlite, some vermiculite. I think they reformulated and just are using less vermiculite in there. What looks better to you? This looks more just like the peat moss over here, to be honest with you. But we've got what we just made for a couple of bucks. And we can use it as a starting mix, as a potting up mix, or something you can buy. And you can pay three times as much. Here's what some of the containers look like when they're filled. A couple oversized 6Ls, standard size on the left, and a larger container right in the center. I saw this at my seed shop if you need seed starting supplies. This is going to save you money. As I was saying, you don't really have to put in fertilizers, the dry type in here. In fact, since there's no soil life in here, if you put in organic dry fertilizers in here, you're going to get a lot of mold and fungus. Not necessarily a bad thing, but there's no soil life to break that fertilizer down, change it into a form of N, P, and K your plants can use. So that's why I recommend the water soluble. If you want, you could take, you know, a good handful of worm castings and mix it into there. And that is going to bring some good stuff to your seed starting mix. Some hormones, N, P, and K, all kinds of stuff. And that's a good way to go about kind of putting the nutrients you want into your mixes. However, again, on a budget, kind of friendly, I guess, process, you don't have to put the worm castings in there. Everything I just showed you to make this and some water-soluble fertilizers will take care of your transplants. Please subscribe and follow me. I'll show you how I plant up my whole garden, really, for 2024, starting with seed starts, the grow light system, all that kind of stuff. Show you how to plant, care for everything, and really just take care of a garden for 2024. Thanks so much for watching. And remember, you do have to spend a little bit more to buy all the ingredients, but you get to save yourself so much money in the long run by making your seed starting mix and your potting up mix yourself. Thanks for watching. I'll see you next time.