The best hydroponic indoor gardens in 2025 tried and tested
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CJRM3VL0kes
News & Politics
 I am now convinced that everyone should have their own hydroponic kit at home. I tested seven of the highest rated consumer grade hydroponic gardens on the market in this tiny corner of my one bedroom apartment here in LA. If I were to pick the best hydroponic garden on the market for most people, it would be this, the Lettuce Grow Farm Stand Nook. It is a tower garden, which means that it has a very compact footprint, and yet it can fit 20 plants. It's also very easy to use, very beginner friendly. In fact, you don't even have to grow your plants from seeds. All you need to do is purchase the seedlings from the Lettuce Grow website and pop them these pods right here. This garden also has a very high success rate. I got about five harvests out of the lettuces here and endives. So it's fantastic and it truly saved me a lot of money and encouraged me to eat healthier. For my beginner pick, this is the Click and Grow Smart Garden 9 Pro. Now next to it is a Smart Garden 3, which is the 9 Pro's cheaper, smaller version. They're both easy to set up and maintain, so they're both beginner friendly. But the 9 Pro actually has app support, which provides guidance to beginner edible gardeners. The 9 Pro also comes with a complimentary set of plant capsules and has this cool touch feature to control its lights. I really love the Rise Garden 3 from Rise Gardens for the more experienced gardeners. It is a little more involved to set up and clean, but it is highly expandable and very versatile in terms of the plants that you can grow with it. I have a two-tier one, but you can just keep it to one tier if you want to keep things simple, or you can expand to three tiers. The beauty of this is because of its design, the bottom shelf is actually taller. You can also plant taller plants. For example, I am currently waiting for strawberry season, but I have already planted my pepper, lemongrass, and eggplants. And once these grow into seedlings, they will go on the bottom shelf. Hydroponic gardens have so many benefits. There is a zero learning curve, so you don't have to have experience in gardening or even have a green thumb. So you can have your own farm-to-table experience, even without a backyard. Hydroponic gardens also let you grow plants year-round. They could potentially save you money on groceries. I am such a meat person, but having these gardens within reach with food that I've proudly grown and nurtured, albeit with very little maintenance because that's what these are designed for, has helped me eat healthier. Plus, you get that joy out of growing and harvesting your own food, and as most plants do, they instantly brighten up your home. Have I convinced you to invest in your own indoor hydroponic garden yet? If you want to know more or want to see my top recommendations, be sure to check out my best hydroponic gardens guide at CNN underscore by clicking on the link below. Happy growing! Happy growing! Happy growing! Happy growing! Happy growing! Happy growing! Happy growing! Happy growing! Happy growing! Happy growing! Happy growing! Happy growing! Happy growing! Happy to live! Happy growing! Happy fulfilling! Happy growing! Happy growing!