Innovation platforms and rural advisory services: Group work at a SEARCA Forum-workshop
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ckl8XHhRI3Y
Science & Technology
 So, we're back to the last and hopefully the most interesting for you session of my part of this workshop. And I already gave you pretty much the game plan before breaking into the break, right? So now, before we actually jump into it, I'd like to ask everyone to stand up and go over to that corner. The reason I wanted to get you out of your seats is because for this session we might not be sitting in those same seats. So that's a good way to start it out and to start fresh. Don't worry, you'll be able to collect and move your stuff, you know? You don't have to fear about that. Okay, so as I explained before the break, what we'd like to do now is to complete our journey from pure theory, a case study taking theory into practice, to now really taking you to a place where you can have the beginning of a plan for how you can integrate some of the concepts that we've been discussing around innovation platforms for your own work. So to make it most useful, it really has to come from you. So before we do any other configuration, I'd like to ask, by show of hands, who has an idea, a project, an initiative that they're either actually working on or would like to work on, where they'd like to spend the next hour, hour and a half or so with colleagues and resource persons getting feedback on and starting to sketch out. So if you have such, please read your... oh great, one hand, two... yeah? No, not all of us? Okay, so let's start hearing a bit about the ideas. Actually, I have one project where I try to organize with the NGOs because in my ministry, there are around 55 NGOs working international and local NGOs. I'm from Cambodia. I'm from the Ministry of Role Development. So the NGOs, they get funds from abroad. They make a... we call it saving for change. So it's a community funds. So the problem always when the NGO, they finish their project. So that group is going to be male after the NGO. So now we want to make sure those saving groups sustain. Even the NGO left, that group still sustain. So now I'm trying to work with the NGO about those, how to make that saving group community to become sustainable. So if the group can help us how to think about that, I think that'd be nice. Because when I go back there, I will... We actually reform already a group, a working group with the NGO. So we're going to discuss about that when I go back. So that's not the idea I want to... Wonderful. Thank you very much. May I already invite you to pick a table? Yes, you can pick your own table. There are advantages of raising your hands first. Okay. Some other hands were up. Please help me again. Yes? Actually, we have an ongoing project, a tripartite project with Circa, with the local government and then the academe. So we have just started the project entitled Rehabilitation of Calamansi Industry in Victoria Oriental Mindoro. So what we did was, of course, the PRA. So we identified the potential commodity. So we had identified Calamansi. So why Calamansi? So Calamansi during the previous years was in which Victoria was noted to be the most popular producer of Calamansi. But then there came a time that Calamansi was already dying. It was dying during that time. So during those previous years. So what we did, so we asked the farmers, we asked the farmers, why is it that Calamansi industry is already declining? So some farmers deviated from the, deviated from the, from producing Calamansi. So they opted to go on other commodity products. So we tend now to rehabilitate, rehabilitate the Calamansi industry to the help of Circa. And of course in coordination with the local government and then the academe. So with the concept, concept of the IP and then the innovation platform. So we'll try to strengthen more the, the strategies for the industry. Okay. So I am Lea Biklar from Capiz. And our province is known to be the seafood capital of the Philippines. And one of the major productions that we have, which is now extinct, is the dual production. Or call it as the angel, angel wings. Okay. Um, yeah. Um, I had this proposal submitted to, for institutional funding, entitled, uh, rehabilitation and, uh, no, legislation on rehabilitation, conservation of the angel wings in Capiz. So, um, um, the project, or the, the situation is, there was no existing policies when it comes to the harvest and the breeding season of these, uh, angel wings. So, my proposal is to make some policies, and, uh, alternative policies regarding the, the situation. Thank you. Thank you. And please find yourself a table. Okay. We have, we have four more tables left, but if need be, we can, we can make arrangements. Um, so we've had one from Cambodia and two from the Philippines. Can I see hands not from the Philippines? We'll come to the Philippines again in a minute. Uh, uh, uh, we have collaboration with local government, uh, about how to develop, uh, sugar cane industry, uh, in, uh, one province, uh, in Indonesia. The issues is about how to, uh, increase the productivity of the sugar cane, uh, uh, and then, uh, uh, how to, uh, uh, strengthen the, uh, uh, farmer institution, uh, uh, uh, and also, uh, uh, how to, um, support, uh, local government to provide, uh, support facilities, uh, in order to make the sugar cane industry. Uh, uh, have, uh, more, uh, better, uh, perform. Please find yourself a table. Thanks. Uh, actually since yesterday we've been discussing on the possibility of, uh, uh, me and my table mates, uh, actually discussing about the possibility of collaborating on a, uh, common project. We actually came up with an acronym for it already. It's called ALIVE. Uh, Alliance for Learning and Innovations for a Viable Enterprise. So, ALIVE. So, ALIVE. I, I am coming from a livestock agency from the Philippine Carabao Center. Ronan and Iyam is from Philippine Rice Research Institute. And of course, Dr. William Medrano comes from Isabella State University. So, this is a collaboration of research agencies of the government and the academe towards, uh, uh, a very meaningful project on, on learning and innovation toward addressing the, the plight of the marginalized, uh, rural farmers. Because, based on the innovation platform. Because anyway, we have similar clients. These are the smallholder marginalized rural farming communities. I'm involved in, uh, in a project of, uh, big program. And the project is called, uh, Adaptive Collaborative Water Governance. It's, uh, being operational in Santa Cruz Watershed, very near here. And, uh, uh, this, uh, uh, Adaptive Collaborative Water Governance seeks to address the problem about water management in that, uh, watershed. And, uh, uh, and so we had, uh, the, uh, formal meeting. Formal meeting in 2014 with the stakeholders. So, in our terms here, it's innovation platform. We invited stakeholders. And, uh, the meeting was, uh, led by, the meeting was led by our research findings that, indeed, there was, or there were problems related to water. But, uh, the problem then, during that meeting was about water pollution. So, it, it led us to, um, addressing the problem of waste pollution. Okay. And so, um, we followed a platform, FACES, actually. And it's, uh, four-phase platform. Uh, and we are now on our last, uh, year. This year is our last year. And so, we would like, uh, to continue that, that, uh, platform. Not, uh, probably in the next future with another watershed. But this time, since we haven't implemented yet the, what we call adaptive collaborative water governance platform, we would like to implement that first in that, uh, watershed before we replicate the platform in another watershed. And so, this is in collaboration with the government institution, One River Council, and the Academia, UPLB. Now, the, um, the problem... Before we get to the problem, we'll save that to the actual group discussion. Okay. Okay. So, thanks very much, and please find yourself a table. Um, I have not much knowledge for this. Uh, mostly my knowledge concerned with, uh, pure science subjects. Uh, that's why I would like to join this, uh, workshop forum, forum workshop. And then, after this training, I will obtain many updated information, and I could apply in my training center, and I could share my knowledge to my trainees. Uh, that's why I joined this, uh, forum. But I have not met my knowledge, knowledge, that it's, sorry, and I'm still learning. Many learning from you and other participants. So, thank you. I have a question. Do you want to start thinking about a specific project, or do you just want to learn more about the process? Um, of course. Because, right now, what I'm asking for is, do you want to lead a group for a project in Myanmar, on topic A, B, or C, and have them help you brainstorm and start to prepare it? Um, yeah. I have two plans. I have two plans. The one is, I want to leave a project. So, that is, I'll stay applying for the grant, but not yet confirmed. And so, I have to lead one project. And, another one is, I am training supervisor. That's why I have to share the knowledge of innovation platforms in my training center. So, I have two ideas, two papers. Can you tell us a bit more about the first idea? Sorry to put you on the spot, but at the end, people will need to choose which table they come to. So, I want them to have a better sense. So, this first project, what is it about? Can you tell the group a bit more? Yeah, we are applying for the project of Indigenous Knowledge Management, adaptation to climate change. Wonderful. Thank you very much, and please find yourself a table. Okay. So, I'm going to go to the next slide. In theory, tables are full, but if there's a burning hand, I can take it? Going once? We are, we have also a tripartite project from Syarga, Akadem and a local government unit. Our project is, ah, rejuvenating the jackfruit, banana, vegetables, industry, and the other. And the other industry, particularly in the municipality of Inupaka, Inupaka, the Philippines. So, I would like to invite the rest of you to join these tables. So, don't worry. I'm not going to, ah, I'm not going to start yesterday's presentations all over again. But I do want to put up just two slides to, to help jog your memory a bit and to, to help you as you approach this task. The first is this. Remember the typical innovation platform stage? We are here, aren't we? We are scratching our heads here. And you may be thinking of a goat or a sugar cane or a fish or whatever the case may be. Yeah? But we want to make sure that we walk away with something that can help you then initiate your platform. You probably will touch already on other elements in the chain. They may change as you talk with the other platform members. So, it's not set in stone. But in order to make a good case, think about what the focus can be. Think about what gap you're fixing. Think back about Tulsi Devi and the challenges that she faced and how concrete solutions came up. Try to come up with similar pitches of what your group will do. What are the options? How will you deal with issues like capacity development? Are you planning to do a small pilot or are you planning to do something that can scale? What learning and monitoring systems are you planning to think about? Think about all of these aspects. We talked a lot about yesterday. How to set up and initiate a platform. How to facilitate it. We talked about its composition, communications, power relations. Think about all of these aspects as you etch out your plan. The other thing is, and I'll leave this up for you to have as the backdrop, but remember that we talked about five main themes. Composition and initiation, coordination, power and conflicts. Resources, very important when you're trying to set up new platforms. Are you using new ones or existing ones? Do you need seed funding? If so, who do you think you can approach to help you make that happen? And what do you need to do in order to convince those entities that this is something worth investing in? Is this something that can be an add-on to an existing program that you already have? Or does this entail a new project proposal? All of these things are things that you can be thinking of now as you plan this out. So I don't want to give you too much structure beyond that. I want you to have the opportunity to discuss. I'll come around and sit with you so we can have discussions in the smaller groups. But think about how can you champion this? Who do you need to influence? And what will you do in the next three to six months to try and make this a reality for you? Okay? As guiding questions. Any questions before we go into the small groups? Any questions that you think the whole group would benefit from? So we have one hour before we break for lunch. But I'd still like to keep a few minutes for sharing. So that you can share with the plenary. So let's take 45 minutes now in your groups to come up with a plan. If you like, you can start typing it into a laptop so that you have it for you to work on. If you prefer to write it on paper and stick it on things, that's fine as well. But do document your work so that when you leave here, you have this mini... I don't like to say the word blueprint because it's associated with technology transfer and we're talking about the heart of agricultural innovation systems. But that you have a mini blueprint with you to enable you to go back to. Okay? Great. Go ahead. You're not trying to do everything saying I want to work on indigenous knowledge and how it applies to climate change adaptation, in Myanmar I'm assuming, right? Yeah. So you already have a focus around it. And what is your plan for the next half an hour? How do you plan to go about this? Now in a perfect world, you want to end up with a written record. And what can be very useful to have for you is a process map of how you personally... ...for the forum, but the easiest to be a separate platform for the existing forum... ...for the part of the interior of the platform, another platform that can be... ...indigenous knowledge in climate change adaptation in Myanmar. We have to initiate first the platform. What is indigenous knowledge and who will be a company for this activity? So we have to target first to local community. So the meaning of local community, we will focus on the most vulnerable regions to climate change in Myanmar. And then we will gather the basic information on the historical data on the climate change. And then in this group, the local people, farmers and head of the village and agricultural extension... ...will make the activity together. So for here, I would like to explain what is indigenous knowledge in Myanmar. So we have many indicators for the climate change. For example, we have to look at the insects. Do you know insects? So these insects are, for example, cricket. There are so many cricket you will see in the evening. So this indicator, well, sure, tomorrow morning will be very much sunshine. And then another indicator is lizard. Lizard, you know the lizard. Yeah, I like the ARD lizard. So they will change their color of the body on their head. So well change the color. So this is one indicator for our climate change. This is mainly concerned with the rainy season. So the green color, well sure, very near for the rainy. So we will decide what will be our focus. So we will be identifying indigenous knowledge. So I already explained what are the indicators for the indigenous knowledge. And we will use the IK to develop innovation in addressing issues of the climate change problems. And we will identify the effect of climate change into the communities who will be the most affected in our regions. So for the identification of the option. So we will have the documentation. What are the indigenous knowledge, priorities, actions to address the problems of climate change, to respond to problems of climate change. And in this, in this factor, this world contains photographs, cartoon, mind mapping, and infographic. So, in our region, so the very updated information and very updated technology cannot be available. So we have to use the photograph or cartoon chart and mind mapping and infographic, something like that. So we cannot use electricity everywhere. That's why we have to use that. So to develop indigenous materials as equipment for early warning devices, for example, bamboo stick, we will use the very big bamboo stick. And then we will hit the very small bamboo sticks to make a big sound. So that will be the early warning system for the climate disasters. That is not a new solution for the climate disaster. That is not a new solution for the climate disasters. That is not a new solution for this point of view. The government and the authorized piracy in this region, The government and the authorized person in this region will collaborate together to solve the climate change problem and to set up the policy how we cope the problem of climate change. So the government will also help us and the community. And we will contact the symposium on climate change in every district. And we have many different levels for the region. So the lowest level is village. And then the upper level is township. And then the upper level is district. So this is like the municipalities. And then the most upper level is country. So the most upper level is country. And the lower level is village. For to develop the capacity. To develop the capacity, we will practice drills on disaster and climate change. And we will prepare by using our indigenous knowledge and our capacity as a base on our indigenous knowledge. To implement and scale app. To develop and understand that operating procedure in using indigenous knowledge in responding climate change. So we have to use the standard operating procedures. So we will monitor the most vulnerable regions according to the changes of the seasons. So we will monitor again and again and then evaluate the impact. And then we will set up what will be the best tool to cope the problems of climate change in our desirable regions. So thank you very much for your kind attention. Thank you very much. And if you go beyond three minutes, that will be all you here. Thank you very much again. What we didn't cover, and it's okay. We can't cover everything in two minutes and you can't brainstorm everything in 30 minutes. But one thing that I said I think to every single group is, think about what you personally, the champions of the project, need to do Monday morning when you go back. What do you need to do to get by it? Because that can be as important as the concept of the project. Okay, next group please. Okay. Good morning ladies and gentlemen. This is our proposal. The title is Using Innovation Platforms Towards Inclusive and Sustainable Growth in Rice-Based Communities in Region 2. So we came up with the local name, Palay Yamanayon. It's basically rice palay. And of course we want our farmers to improve their well-being. And of course it has to be done on a community-wide level. That's why it's called Palay Yamanayon. Well, this proposal builds on this main problem. Rice farmers with low income due to monocropping. So based on our data, an average rice farmers only earn 50,000 pesos a year, which is below the poverty threshold. Our goal is first to transform farmers from being crop producers to agrippinor. And of course it has a lot of mental interventions there or behavioral interventions. Second is to shift from production to enterprise-driven agricultural operations in the community. And then thirdly is to organize the local farmers into a business entity through a cooperative. Our framework would be an enterprise-driven farm diversification, intensification, and integration. So just to give you an idea of how this works, this is basically how it works. Using rice as the resource base, we can actually introduce a wide range of possible options of enterprises to the farmers. So these are some of the rice-based enterprise options that we can introduce to the farmers. First is rice production, dairy buffalo production, mushroom production, vermicomposting, high-value crops, and fish. And of course these are the possible actors that we can tap. That's all. Thank you. Thank you. Very, very nice. I keep being amazed of how much you can do in half an hour, PowerPoint with all the images and everything lined up. I also thought that it was very interesting to see that this group brought together five separate branches of government entities to work together. In the beginning it was very broad and how you were able to narrow it down. So very nice. And with 14 seconds to spare. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Okay. This presentation is just a continuation of what I had given you a while ago. and this is again the project about the adaptive collaborative water governance okay this project is following a protocol which is given by these phases phases adopted there are four phases as i mentioned and meetings have been regular meetings have been facilitated by uplb it's well documented transcripts are ready and we are now using it for another project research now this water governance the msc we can say that from the six municipalities doing their own planning now they have been involved as one they have been engaged in one meeting collaborating how to manage the water resource before we thought that water is a matter of scarcity but now we have learned that water in santa cruz watershed is plentiful and it's just a matter of governance the the problem about scarcity is about governance but as we move along collaborating discussing problems we have learned that the six municipal municipalities priority is about waste management and that is also concerned water water quality is the the now the the concern of the six municipalities now the problem with the the the the this ip platform is we would like to know the responsibilities of each of the 11 munis 11 institutions engaged now in the ip platform with the addition of one institution which is the department of the interior and local government local government now we will be forging we will be forging a an moa and it will be instituted by that department now we would like to see the river council which will be our devi in this case the limas marina which is the acronym of the six municipalities now what we would like to see in the near future is the forging of policy support and also the scaling up of what we have initiated in another watershed thank you thank you again i will say other than the concept i hope you don't forget to make some mental note for yourselves of what you will do monday morning to help make this into a reality when you go back to your office okay who would like to go next okay um this is uh about the community fund that's what we call because this uh uh credit is a lot of name different nco different name they have saving for change there's a community fund village fund there are so many names but in short is the money within the community itself so we discussed with our colleague from laos so we come up some few points but before i give you some background so we have actually 12 ngos working with us so the total of the saving the community is more than five million dollars but there are still more that we not have data yet and the people benefit from that saving is 60 000 people so right now the ngo is assisted in terms of technical financial but what we concern is after the ngo finish their project those group will also no more saving they also divide the money among themselves and they stop the saving so what ngo asked us to help to assist the continue those uh i mean this work so the benefit for this uh for this uh credit we think that they will be increased our income of the community itself especially for the household so we will reuse the informal lending because the informal lending is very high interest rate so the poor people they have no collateral so to buy in the formal from bank from microfinance so they use that money and borrow by themselves among themselves so the internet they go back to themselves so it's like they borrowed their own money but interest also go to themselves so that's why we say we reuse the informal lending also reuse the mitigation migration because they went to they go to abroad to thailand to other country to have a job so aside from that is also sharing experience learning among themselves they not only talk the uh about the the money but they also share other gender issues or whatever no experience among themselves that's what we think that is also learning and of course it's also capacity building like they can become a more more resilient in terms of financial so this is the benefit that we think that is important so the stakeholder is the stakeholder that i uh the government for community ngos and private sectors and the funding we think that is uh because we also have fund for that we will allocate for fund for that one and the ngos also so uh so i think this is our approach we will provide training to them and legalize them as a formal group also association and we make a guideline with ngo so this is the thing that we can think of right now thank you thank you very much uh good noon uh for in philippines our project is entitled in strengthening linkages among farmers government and industries in the faculty composition and decision of the platform uh representations and composition our community is chakrot actually we have five communities we have the banana vegetables uh tilapia jackpot and the red forest but for the purposes of presentations we pick up only jackpot study site is in municipality of binopakan which has an area of 9 646 hectares and repopulation as of 2000 since us 20 500 actors actors involved we have the municipal local government unit the academy the academy bcsu specifically farmers farmers circa institutional buyers processors the non-government uh the national government agencies the the the the dole the nrd the ost dti uh fde etc and the non-government organizations target many beneficiaries we have 35 farmers actually at present we have the 18 existing growers for jackpot but we plan we plan to increase this number to 35 farmers our objectives is uh facilitated registrations of associations because uh the growers we intend to register this their associations into a registering agency the dole uh then to establish sustainable and viable enterprise establish uh sustainable links with market the bill the jackpot industry in indepakon increase socioeconomic capacity of the target beneficiaries by providing them sustainable additional income source and the research issues status of land ownership actually the farmers in our municipality uh no land title so also they are did that own their land owner land usually uh mostly the farmers are tenants uh the access to market and then paste and diseases uh jackfruit plants has uh experience in our municipality this so called pate of tora disease so we that is their one of the issues ability availability of supply for quality planting materials uh because because uh planting materials in our areas is so not so uh uh available due to the uh last uh two years the yolanda uh all of the uh municipality in our in the our municipality in our in neighboring municipality in liti specifically uh have uh uh planted this uh planted this uh uh planted this jackfruit so uh planting materials for jackfruit is very insufficient uh coordination of facilitation of the platforms the process facilitation facilities facilities facilities uh baseline profiling to identify the beneficiaries identification of industry players markets and enablers permission of technical working groups identification of study sites stakeholders meeting discuss the objectives of the innovation innovation innovation innovation innovation platforms understand the agenda which stakeholders uh have a common understanding the core institutions and issues uh in coordination and presentations of the platforms we conduct small group meetings uh and uh iterative process to have a brief understanding on the situations identify the constraints purely formulate alternative practical solutions to address the problems the problems of the problems of the communities engaging other players and enablers create link with market and procedures coordinate and top government line agencies that called assist then improving the value chain of jackfruit in the area coordinate and collaborate with the local government unit to review some existing projects related to what we will be doing and for monitoring and evaluation to sustain the operations especially after the inline course of the project that's all thank you and that's all thank you and what you can see is that when you try to apply this to existing projects you can very quickly drill down a lot of details so once you actually bite into your project you know you can really flesh this out our program is about our program is about innovation platform for improving performance the sugar cane industry development in gorontalo one of uh central production of sugar cane in indonesia this is the condition of uh sugar production in indonesia uh the area and the area and the yield uh tend to uh decrease and then in other side the sugar consumption projects projects uh described that uh the condition is uh tend to um increase so we should uh uh provide uh some program to uh fulfill the gap uh between the consumption consumption and the production uh this is the approach we uh we have to increase the sugar production uh in indonesia we have to program uh in existing area and uh by uh extensive uh extensification way uh and the strategic step uh in existing area is about uh private sugar mill optimization budget for state ownership sugar mill and the other is to increase product productivity and sugar content and we still face some problem in to increase productivity uh and uh sugar sugar sugar content uh in the uh farmers uh group this is the element of our program uh we defined that uh if we want to make our program success we should uh make sure the element uh uh provide uh well uh uh provide uh well we should define well about the target group locational factor policy focus and and synergy sustainability governance and uh process management and we focus uh in one of our uh problem about the target group this is the mapping situation uh existing condition about the composition initiate initiation uh not all stakeholder involved in the forum only dominant farmer initiation come from the government and not all participants were actively involved in the forum uh were actively involved in the program we expect in the future of stakeholder will be informed and based on our farmer farmer problems and all the participant collaborate actively and increase the sense of belonging of the program uh for the issues of coordination and facilitation of the platform the excesses condition uh the program uh the program uh the coordination facilitation and the platform uh is a top-down approach and linear approach we expect uh in the future uh it will participatory communication uh about the resource and incentive the existing condition uh limited uh incentive uh and then the expected is uh uh government uh government and other stakeholder uh will uh provide uh more uh resources uh in an incentive about the monitoring and evaluation not uh existing condition of monitoring and evaluation not in substantial aspect just formality aspect and we we need uh holistic monitoring and evaluation so uh our program program is how we can refer to life uh existing uh forum towards the effective innovation uh platform in the short term uh we want to evaluate and re-identify the stakeholder and the problems uh in the existing uh forum and in the long term uh we want to develop uh capacity formulate the solution and implement uh innovation uh platform uh we want to develop i think that's all uh we want to share thank you thank you very much so that experience was a bit intense huh the whole day and a half well this brings uh the end to my my part of the the workshop it's been uh uh quite challenging getting all of this content in such a short amount of time but you've really done a fantastic job in facilitating with and enduring all of what i've dished out especially yesterday but i hope that uh the sessions this morning which allowed you to look at it from both from a case study perspective and take it from theory into practice and now to start etching out how you will apply it in your own context will actually be useful for you as you move forward and that you'll be able to use these material and these concepts going forward i'll email you again some more links and background information and you have my contacts as well so you can always reach out if there are any questions um and other than that i'll thank you again for your active participation and uh wish us all a nice lunch thank you very much applause applause applause applause applause applause applause applause applause applause慈合�