Case IH: Dealer Network Invested in Agriculture's Future
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=clsV-nMD4uI
Autos & Vehicles
 Our customers have a choice where they want to do business. They take a look at the extra hours we spend, you know, nights and weekends. We're out in the field with them. We strive to understand their challenges and the opportunities. Our customers notice the investment we've made to our dealership. They have confidence of the level of support we're going to provide them. During season, spring, fall, etc., we're on call 24-7. We've got technicians on site seven days a week. Try to be there whenever they need us. We have a 50-foot door that can get planters in, large heads, platforms, anything you need to service right on the combine. We have a wash bay that's 40 by 80 that we can get two combines in. Our customers are very confident that we have the parts they need. We've got knowledgeable people. We keep our bins full. The most important impact we have on a customer would be to get them what they're after when they come after it so they can get back to the field, get back to work. Our employees come from an ag background, so they've been around it for a long time, so they know what the farmer's going through and what it's going to take to help keep them going. We made investments in our facility to do the best work possible for the customer. We expanded primarily out of need. The size of today's equipment is enormous compared to what we had a few years ago. It's easy to outgrow a facility in no time. We just need the space really to accommodate the equipment and the technicians. The difference between a mechanic and a technician is a technician is fully trained, it's professional, and that's all we have here in my shop. As an AFS certified dealer, we saw it as very important to certify each of our 12 locations. Certification is nice because it gives us that checklist to be able to go through and make sure that all the service techs that need to go to training are going to training and the people that haven't been in a while go back again. Our guys attend training at least two times a year. We have some in-house training. The way technology changes, it's a constant need to train your technicians. I've grown up on a farm with the college in agronomy and I've just gone about every training they have available for this technology because it's always changing. This stuff is so new and current, they don't have books and manuals available so you have to talk to a person or an engineer to get information about issues you might be having. Looking forward with all the things that CASE is starting to provide us with as far as the end user trainings from CASE personnel, the phone support, the web view, those programs, we're investing in those and we're promoting them. With the technology advancing in the equipment, you have to stay advanced with the technology and the tools. We have sent technicians and stayed up to date on all training and we have all the tools necessary to do the proper job on all the new equipment. If you talk to most customers that have persistent farming equipment, they will talk, the first thing they'll probably talk about is the need for more support. They need to be able to get a hold of people when they need to be able to get a hold of people to keep them running to keep that downtime less.