Amazing Equipment Lease Deals!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CnIIHf_58WQ
People & Blogs
 John Jenkinson visiting with the CEO of American Implement, Mr. Chad Koster. American Implement on the cutting edge of making sure that agriculture, both farming and ranching, stays profitable by introducing a new and exciting lease option that provides flexibility for many operations, both farming and ranching. So when we talk real dollars, I've got a couple examples. A 2014 John Deere S670 Combine, about a 1,500-hour machine, well-equipped, very well-specced. And get this, John, just spent $21,000 in our shop reconditioning it. So that machine is ready to go to the field. On a three-year lease, 300 engine hours per year, get this, John, $96 per hour. Wow. To give you an idea, that machine on a short-term rental, that rate would be twice that. Now let's look at a five-year lease, same 300 hours per year. So you're going to lease that machine. You're going to have it five years year-round. You can put up to 1,500 engine hours on it. Now we're down to $75.30 an hour. Wow. On a relatively new machine, too, that you're not going to have to worry about. Absolutely. 14-model machine with $21,000 spent on it, it is ready to go to the field. So there is an option at the end of that to either buy that machine or just walk away from it and get into another lease. Absolutely. Totally. Totally the customer's decision. If there's equity, exercise it, then you can trade it. Or if the machine you want to continue forward, you could refinance that. Or if the equity is not there, walk away and you're set to be in the market to buy or lease again in that three or five years down the road. Is it also similar for tractors? Absolutely, John. I ran two quick scenarios on tractors. Very popular 8 335R John Deere tractor. That's 335 horsepower. 2,012 model. Only 2,540 hours on that tractor. Again, this tractor is well equipped. It is not stripped down. It's got our ILS front end. It's got IBT transmission, front duals, rear duals, nice weight package, you name it. Three years, 450 hours per year. Only $42 per hour. If we move to five years and a customer that can put more hours on it, say 600 hours per year, so a 600 hour per year, five years, now we're down to $26.92 an hour. Wow. Wow. That's cheap horsepower right there. Definitely the best cost per hour today and significantly lower than a short-term rental. This time of year, customers need an extra tractor, extra combine, but you only get it for 100 or 200 hours for, say, one month. We can cut your cost in sometimes a third, and you have it year-round for more hours. Yeah. That is just unbelievable. And all of this provides a lot of flexibility, especially in this environment. We all know that things are volatile right now when it comes to the grain market and the livestock market. Boy, this would sure help manage some of that risk. And you'd know what your costs were going in. Definitely. Everything is accurate there, John. And, yes, it basically is fixing your cost of ownership. We can actually also offer customers extended powertrain warranty on most of this equipment and value-added services as far as maintenance packages, that type of thing. So you truly can fix your cost for that three or five years. And we can lease virtually any type of equipment. We've ran all of our sprayers, tractors, and combines. So at any time, if a customer wants to come in, we should be able to get you a lease quote in short order. We've got them all ran, ready to help our customers. That is, well, it just goes back to one of the things that American Implement has always been good at. And that is making sure that they understand what's going on with their customers, having that feel for what's going on out in the country, and being able to respond to that ahead of time. That benefits everybody. Very true, John. Appreciate you saying that. And, yes, we understand times are more difficult right now. We've got some challenges out there in the world economy, even closer to home here in the U.S. And, yeah, we want to be part of that solution. We want to partner with our customers, and we want to find ways to help them save money, reduce cost. Hey, talk about this new portal that you were telling me about. Yeah, thanks for mentioning that one, John. Actually, in our crop newsletter that's going to be mailed out here in a couple weeks, so we'll be the first promotion of it. So it's all brand new, John. It's called the Dealer Customer Portal. And the beautiful thing, it's 24-7 access. All you need is an Internet connection. It is free to our customers. And the beautiful thing, it has five major components. But they can do a lot. They can browse equipment. They can build their own equipment database to help our parts people with serial numbers when the customer comes in. You can look up parts online, check price, availability, actually place the order for the part. But what we really like is the ability for our customers to view their current and historical invoices online at their convenience. Wow. So we have lots of calls. Hey, can you get us that invoice from six months ago? Now our customers have the ability to do that themselves, their accountants, their office managers themselves. Whoever they want to grant access to that, they can. Isn't that amazing? And all it takes is just an Internet connection. That's all it takes. 24-7, an Internet connection. All right. Always remember parts and service also. I know we talked about the lease. We talked a lot about the portal and the website and things. But always remember service and parts. Absolutely. The parts and service departments, that's what makes everything happen. Just to mention some of our July specials that will be coming out here in a few days. 10% off of grease. Everybody needs grease. Keep that equipment well maintained. Throughout harvest, our parts departments are open extended hours depending on the weather, how busy they are that day. Most of our locations are open until at least 8 o'clock in the evening. They are on call after that if anyone needs assistance. We talked about how hard this wheat has been to cut. It's on the ground. It's tangled. It's damp. A lot of wear and tear on the equipment. So don't forget to get that combine reconditioned prior to fall. Hopefully we're blessed with continued moisture. And these combines are going to need a little TLC after wheat harvest. So we have combine inspections for $5.95. Rowhead inspections, $85 per row. Cornhead inspections for $30 per row. And if you don't want to change out your concaves from your wheat harvest to fall harvest, we'll do all that for $2.75. It includes more than changing the concaves. It includes some adjustments, that type of thing. So get your headers, your drills, your combines all fall ready. Chad Koster, CEO of American Implement, indebted to the past and committed to the future. Their website is www.americanimplement.com.