Browsing Equipment Dealerships
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cOe0EpTW6Mg
People & Blogs
 How's it going everybody? So the fields are all disked up, corn stalks broken up. I do have some shop work to do on a few small things, but today I decided, it's a Sunday, I decided let's drive around and check out some equipment. And that's always a fun thing to do, drive around, check out different pieces of equipment, see what's for sale, check some things out. My dad always said it doesn't cost a dream. So get a list going of things we could dream about. And yeah, it should be a fun day. I've made these kind of videos before where I go hit up different equipment dealerships. And it always seems to, other people seem to also like checking out the used equipment also. So first thing we're doing, we are here at Casanova Equipment in Cortland. It's our first stop. I'm not doing a million different dealerships, but, um, yeah, look at, there's a nice tractor right there, huh? A 4250 power shift, beautiful tractor, 18, four 42s. It is ours, silly. You and Papa brought it up. If you're wondering what's wrong with it, Casanova Equipment does an end of the year service, um, thing. So, uh, that's why it's up here just for service. Uh, nothing, nothing major. We're going to service it up. Um, and hopefully they throw it on the dyno. Cause I'd like to know what that's running. We kind of got a ballpark idea of what, what all our tractors are running horsepower wise. And that's how we know the 4555 when we, we got that a few years ago and, uh, we brought it up here for the end of the year service and they dynoed it and they said it was running 200 PTO horsepower. It's like, wow, we, that was, uh, that was cool to find out. And then, uh, so we decided, Hey, leave it right alone, but I'm going to park here for a second. We're going to hop out. Um, after this, we're going to go up to the Casanovia store itself, the main store, but we do, uh, we, uh, always had good luck with Casanovia equipment. It's one of our, one of our main, look at you stylish. Um, we deal with them a lot. Uh, we have a good relationship with them. Really like Casanovia equipment. So, um, the main places we're going to go today is Casanovia equipment and Clinton tractor. So figured to take a nice drive. I'm beautiful upstate New York and, uh, then try to find a nice place to eat, get some lunch, huh? That'd be nice, huh? Nice pottinger. Good way to start off. Nice pottinger rake. That would do the job, huh? Uh-oh. He's turning, he's turning. He's going red. He's going red. Oh, yeah. Look at that massive thing over there. Look at that thing. Yeah. H and S. The load master. What even is it? Looks like a double dump wagon. That's crazy. Maybe they have a 7810. Ah, they don't have a 7810 here. Not this store anyway. Here you go. Puddle jumper. Here you go. What about this little manure spreader? I need it. You need it? Uh-huh. We'll get you going, uh, we'll get you going, spread manure. We'll get you a little tracker, get you started off at this. Yeah, I know. Yeah. We could use it in the springtime when we're taking the manure out, huh? Yeah, that'd be nice, huh? Nice big baler. I keep talking about round baler, round baler. Let's just skip round bales and let's go with the big baler, huh? No bale. Huh? No bale. No bale. It's probably brand new. What about this? This is nice. This is like, we have the old 8300 grain drill. This is basically, I mean, this has the double disc openers, which is what we would like to have on ours. It'd be a lot better if we had on ours. Then we got this big one. Yeah, this thing would be nice. Oh, here we go. Now this, this would take care of the corn stalks. This is what we need. Yeah, we need it. And then we need something to pull it, too. I think the 45 would have just a little bit of hard time pulling this. This is a big unit. Yeah, maybe we need something. But, it would definitely get the corn stalks, huh? I think I see what we need. All the way. Yeah, that big articulate tractor? Yeah. Yeah. That's the one. All right. What do you think? Yeah. You ready to head up to the other one? Yeah. There's actually a couple pieces of equipment at the Casanovia store that I want to check out. So, we are at Casanovia equipment. The Casanovia dealership. This is the main one. They got a bunch of different dealerships. Like I said, we deal with the Cortland store. And let's have good luck with the Cortland store. We live closest to them. They got a bunch of different locations. But, I'm just going to go to the Casanovia and the Cortland store today. Here you go, buddy. What do you think about this? I say we cross. Cross. Six row corn planter. Here we go. This would be nice. No, I was talking about the round baler. That's what we need is a round baler. I like the wide tires on it. I do like the wide tires on it. It's a silage special. The cool thing about the John Deere balers, I do kind of like that you load the net wrap from the back. A lot of balers, you get the spare off the side and have to load them from the front. But, that's a neat feature with John Deere's having them in the back. What? oh wow that's a big one interesting oh this is a 460 mega wide once again i like the big tires looks kind of like the same setup except this was plastic where on the other one it was metal box but this is brand new hasn't seen hay yet oh it's a thousand pto that would be nice like i said we need to get our own round baler and do our own round baling my buddy always helps us out and does some baling for us but he's gonna bail too so usually we're waiting you know until he's caught up with his baling and then uh whenever we can get him up there and try to just get everything knocked out in a day but seen gators here's a 450 m must be brand new yeah brand new there's the tires for it they're starting to get their inventory for balers oh cool starting to get their inventory for balers that's for sure let's walk over here a second we got 8r 310 there was a pull type disc bind they had online i do not see it so that must be at one of the other stores but that's something to consider they got a new one right here disc bind the c400 that's almost like the um i think that's the 13 foot almost like the uh 946 that we used this uh this spring to finish up fourth cutting i don't think we're necessarily in the market for a new one but we got to figure out something uh whether we're going to invest and uh get ours fixed up or whether we're going to go to a pull type oh i see something nice because i always said if we um went backwards and went with a pull type then we could get something like this right here 78 10 yeah one second it's probably someone's tractor up here to get service and stuff but what a beautiful tractor 19 speed power shift three remotes it looks like it's used well yeah of course it's used but looks like a nice tractor yeah power quad yeah that'd be a nice addition to the farm huh the 78 10 that pull uh that pull one of those round balers or that would definitely pull uh a disc bind maybe that'd be the trade-off the 4250 did a good job with the disc bind but you gotta figure we also used a 4250 on the blower all right you ready we also used a 4250 on the blower and on the spreader so you would be we'd be moving it around and swapping the pto out and everything but i thought they'd have more stuff here like i said they have a lot of different locations so they probably got them around to different locations so we're here at clinton tractor i'm saying how some of the places didn't have too many uh didn't have as much equipment on the lot we're not going to have that issue with clinton tractor they always have a ton of things on the lot yeah we need to look at these huh we need to get serious and look into these 812 and 810 why is this spinning? oh in case you want to spin around oh there's the pedal where? right here? look there's a key in this one yeah well we're not taking them anywhere looks like it's basic a discharge auger and the chain what? you know what this is? uh a whistler round bale feeder okay so forward, reverse i'll pull that up to feed oh and you can do that with your foot too so i guess you can go like this step on it or do this to feed and then you drive it like this pretty simple alright let's look at let's look at other stuff these big spriders are nice no that's a uh that's a feeder but i was looking at this the dion dion scorpion 300 pretty nice looking unit it's got the big spout we wouldn't need the big spout pretty cool man these are really interesting units here they like our new holland but god this is definitely pretty cool what'd you find? oh a ford 8730 that's pretty cool locked locked that's alright you don't need every single thing are you? check out these babies these babies yeah i'll probably listen to you first what are you looking at? a t7 270 huh? alright go check it out my buddy seat my buddy seat perfect this uh it's for jeff ramone let's check it out and see what all the fuss is about huh? hop down let me see let me see here oh nice seat oh yo your hydraulics this is so nice it is it's a pretty comfortable uh pretty comfortable tractor uh-huh the buddy seat as well i see why jeff is one happy farmer huh? yeah yeah because he gets to drive around a nice tractor pretty nice yeah oh we got more stuff there throttle that work pretty cool huh? pretty nice tractor here we go we could use some new hay wagons stolfus what? two four blue guys yeah oh thank you stolfus must be 12 ton i like the tandem huh oh my god that's clean look at that look at that uh self-propel chopper right there i know pretty cool there's a big baler oh my gosh they put a wagon inside of a broken one they put a well it's not broken they just haven't set it up yet put a wagon inside of a wagon there's some nice hay wagons over here there's that's a feeder wagon we leave that right out in the pasture and the cows could eat out of there huh yeah i like these easy trails these are nice wagons i like that the boards go this way yeah ours and we have 18 yeah we have long 18 foot boards and then if something breaks you gotta get a long board they can also go from here and there yeah i like that little so if i if i ever do get to unload and i'm not on in the mouth i always unload from the front anyway oh there's the handle that opens up and brings it down there's another stolfus wagon yeah yeah yeah a couple easy trails here one one over one here one over there there's one back there so here's something neat we have we actually got our disc our john deere disc we actually got from clinton tractor we have a 635 it's an 18 foot disc this is a 26 uh 2633 john deere it is a 20 foot 9 inch disc they have this like we have this is hydraulically how you can control your angle i'm assuming or your making sure you're level let me set the ramones that we got here this is a nice nice disc big disc blades on it this would make a really nice bigger tires than what we have that would be nice too look at yeah that's a tiny little thing huh here's a big girl big girl this would break up some corn stalks oh here we go here we go here we go i know you sound like shelby now shelby stanga here we go papa these would be nice yeah these dryers don't climb up there please don't climb all the way up i know you don't need to climb on every little thing wow well yeah these these dryers would be nice nice roller that would be nice to have a roller also not the one this size they make like a single one that turns yeah well this is three of them you got your middle one and then there's more choppers there you go there's one with a there's a dion chopper with a just a regular spout to go into wagons ooh something got dented up yeah be nice to try this out huh compare it to the new holland those like a specialty harvest machines right there are they grape or something like that i don't know this is a nine shank just like ours right one two three four five six seven eight nine yep nine shank just like ours i guess i gotta just count on the springs so we have the same exact one what we did though you have one set of hydraulic remotes that bring the blades up and down and then the other one that brings the machine itself up and down and then you adjust the level by this what we did what we did is we just took this out and we put another hydraulic cylinder on there i'm tearing up like crazy because it's windy out windy and cold but then we just hydraulically hydraulically uh adjust your level this would be neat too you need a lot of horsepower for this big tractor i don't know if our 45 would handle it or not that would definitely break up the that would definitely break up the corn stalks pretty good we got rolling baskets another hey buddy what'd you find just like your toy there huh uh-huh god look at that that's like it looks mean from the back there we go bale barons use your bailer just have it instead of kicking into the wagon have it drop right down have it drop right down then you come behind with your bale baron so this is what this does your bailers you know how ours jumps into the wagon shoots into the wagon you get the one that doesn't shoot it just lays it on the ground then you come through with this this picks it up swings around here and it kind of stacks it into makes a big bale out of small bales like that oh kicks it out of the back and kicks it out of the back and then you just come through with your spear put it on the trailer and bring it home because they say there's still a huge market for small square bales they're just the most labor intensive so be a way to not be in the hay mound anymore that'd get spoiled too much huh i gotta get you in the hay mound see you oh i like it yeah see how you like it there you go so i was checking out some equipment it was a it was a cold day and it just rained the day before so it was nice to kind of get away and uh uh like i said go out for lunch uh tour the state side and um tour some different spots of the state and check out some beautiful equipment uh like i said earlier in the video my dad always said it doesn't cost a dream but some really really nice equipment there it'd be nice to try a lot of that but uh uh i went to go check out the um round baler that was kind of nice to check out uh there was a pull type disc bind a 946 disc bind that i wanted to check out but uh it wasn't there excuse me i'm burping here uh that wasn't there that must have been on one of the other lots i'll just give ben a shout sometime on that and talk to him but uh always nice to see uh beautiful tractors like that 7810 which i i i don't think that was for sale i think that was someone's there for uh taking advantage of that end of the year service but anyway uh gotta get back to work uh doing some doing some mudding right now uh next video i'm going to be doing some um some small work in the uh in the shop working on some equipment and uh we'll have some end of the year stuff so we'll be feeding cows stuff like that but anyway thumbs up if you like this video i know a lot of people like checking out the equipment too give me a thumbs up if you like this video drop me a question or comment below hit that subscribe button if you haven't already guys i really appreciate it when you do um drop me a comment and i'll get back to you i will talk to you next time have a good one everybody