The Benefit Using Marginal Crops for Livestock feed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cOL_kJ1178Y
People & Blogs
 Crop producers have two options to make use of their marginal crops. The first one is the harvest option. And let's assume that an oat crop is estimated at 20 bushels per acre. So in this option, the producer would receive their crop insurance benefit, which is equivalent to their 80 bushel to the acre coverage minus the 20 bushels to the acre yield estimate, which would be 60 bushels to the acre multiplied by the price of $3.86 per bushel for a total of $231.60 per acre. You add to that the revenue from selling the low quality oats. Let's assume that it was $3 a bushel times 20 bushels to the acre equals $60 a bushel for a total on the harvest option of $291.60 per acre. There is also the livestock feed option or alternate use. So in this circumstance, the producer still gets the same benefit from his crop insurance policy of $231.60 per acre. Plus, they receive a new incentive from crop insurance to convert to livestock use. This is to account for the lower quality that's associated with the low yielding oats. So in this circumstance, the yield estimate is discounted by 40% to 12 bushels to the acre. So the difference between 12 and 20 is 8 bushels to the acre multiplied by the price of $3.86 per bushel for a total of $30.88 per acre payout. Now that, to be clear, is contingent on switching to alternate use or livestock feed. Plus, the crop producer receives the revenue associated with the bales. Let's assume that the bales are, they agree to a price of $40 per bale. And there's roughly 2.5 bales per acre in yield. That would be the equivalent of $100 per acre in revenue. So the total revenue for this livestock feed option would be equivalent to the crop insurance payout, the additional incentive for converting to livestock feed that represents a quality adjustment, and the value of the bales for $362.48 per acre, which would be 24% more than the harvest option. There's no harvest costs, and you're helping out your livestock producing neighbor.