How To Make A Profit On A Small Scale Farm – 5 Things To Consider
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cqBnDXhACaw
People & Blogs
 In 1973, United States Agriculture Secretary Earl Butts told American farmers that they either need to get big or get out. Well, in the following decades, the United States saw the vertical integration of multiple farming markets, including pork, poultry, and beef. Now, generally, whenever you have a top-heavy market like this, it's going to be the farmer left holding the bag when it comes to profits. So, if larger farms are having trouble in today's market making a profit, what does that mean for small-scale farmers? Is there really even any point in trying? Well, I think there is. Hi, everyone. My name is Andrew, and welcome to Plainview Farm. If I'm anything, it's a small-scale farmer. I raise, well, actually, small-scale cattle, low-line Angus or American Aberdeen cattle. I also raise a handful of goats, pigs, we've got some chickens, and a couple of miniature donkeys. So, just a little bit of background about me here. This is my second small-scale farm. I had another 25-acre small farm in the past that had seen some success as a small-scale direct-to-consumer operation, and I'm trying to rebuild that here on this farm. Now, while we aren't exactly offering a whole lot of products at this point directly to consumer, we are trying to build toward that goal in the future. It's not a concept that's foreign to me at all. It's been about 10 years ago that I started my first farm, and we sold pork, we sold beef, we sold poultry, we sold eggs. Basically, the general stuff that you expect whenever you go to a farmer's market or someplace like that. So, with that being said, I absolutely believe that a person can find success as a small-scale farm, and I want to share with you a few considerations if you're trying to build your own farm. So, first things first is, it's very important to try to keep costs at a minimum. Whenever you're just starting out, whether it's any kind of business, let alone a small-scale farm, you want to try to keep your costs as small and as low as possible. In fact, you want to keep your costs as low as possible throughout your time in business, throughout your time operating your farm. And there are multiple ways to do this. Number one, you have to remember that it's a whole lot cheaper to rent things than it is to buy things. Personally, I've rented various types of heavy equipment, whether it's backhoes, tractors, whatever it may have been, in order to get a job done that I needed done at that time. The same can be said for tools. I've rented power post drivers for whenever I was building my perimeter fence, and I was driving in several T-posts at one time to try to get the fences built. I've rented pole saws to trim trees, all kinds of things, in order to get the job done. Now, of course, I would have loved to have bought a lot of that equipment or tools that I've rented over the years, but honestly, I didn't really need it other than the time that I've rented it. And frankly, it saved me a lot of money. And the same can be said as well for borrowing. If you have friends or family that have equipment or tools, those kinds of things that you can borrow, and they're willing to lend them to you, lean on those folks. Something else to consider is if you have the ability to build things on your own, to do that. Take advantage of those skills. There are several things here on my farm that I've built myself, whether it's feed bunks, pig houses, chicken houses, feeders, whatever it is. I try to build something whenever possible on my own without having to spend very much money at all. And I try to repurpose and reuse materials as often as I can, again, to keep the cost down. Something else to keep in mind along these lines as well is try to keep your infrastructure to a minimum. At least keep it to what you have to have in order to get the job done. Right here behind me, if you can see on the camera, I have cross fences on my 20 acres that divides my property into about six separate pastures or paddocks. And these cross fences are only two electric wires. If you want to see how I built these fences or a little bit more information of what they consist of, I've got multiple videos about them, and I'll be sure and post links to those in the description below. But other things to keep simple whenever it comes to infrastructure are water, water lines. You can run water hoses on top of the ground, or you can buy the big black plastic poly pipe and roll it out in order to get water wherever you need it on your property, whether you are operating a market garden and you're trying to water plants, or you're trying to get water to livestock, which would be my case. Just roll your lines out on top of the ground. You don't have to bury water lines in order to get water from point A to point B. And buildings are something else. You don't have to go out and build a whole bunch of barns and shop buildings and facilities in order to operate your farm. Honestly, on my property, all we have here right now is my house and then a storage building that basically holds all the stuff that we're not keeping in the house. So the next thing that you should consider is to start small and work your way up. Now there's often this urge whenever people start a new venture to jump in with both feet and say, hey, we're either going to sink or we're going to swim, right? Well, that's not always the best way to go, especially if you don't have a market for what you're selling. Ask me how I know. Personally, several years ago, I bought a group of feeder pigs, raised these pigs, fed them, and then I didn't have anywhere to sell them. So what I ended up having to do was load all of these pigs onto a trailer and take them to a sale barn that was willing to take them. And then on top of that, to add insult to injury, I had to take a fraction of what they were actually worth. You want to talk about a discouraging feeling, putting all of that effort into raising something and then not really thinking it all the way through and having a place to sell it. Now on the flip side of that, about 10 years ago when we started our other farm, I started a pastured poultry operation with about 100 chickens. The goal was, whenever I started this pastured poultry operation, was to kind of learn what was involved, learn what it took to raise these chickens, to process them, and then pretty well just fill our freezer. Well, I'll tell you, within a couple years, we had a very profitable pastured poultry business going that we were running out of our house and it didn't take a whole lot of space at all. We had friends and family coming over to help us process all of these chickens and we would pay them with chicken. And then we ended up, at one point, in this pastured poultry operation, we were traveling about 100, 150 miles away from our home to get to drop-off points where we had customers. And this business grew solely by word of mouth, just from people talking about it, telling their friends, their family, their relatives. And one of the things that we did was we would give chicken away, we would give stuff to people and they saw the quality of the product that we were growing and then they wanted to buy it. And again, this all happened within a span of just a couple years. And actually, we started to get to the point that we were growing too fast. We had to start telling people, no, I'm sorry, we can't fill your order because we're just not there. We're not ready yet. So ultimately, we had to shut that operation down because of some unforeseen family health issues that popped up. And I guess we learned a very valuable lesson in that whole operation, which was number one, to know our limitations. And again, to be able to say no, that we don't want to grow too fast because we'll end up getting ourself in a situation where we are reducing the quality of what we're producing. And we didn't want to do that at all. Now, the third thing to consider is to think about yourself and your situation first and foremost. Just because somebody else is doing something doesn't mean that you should be doing that thing as well. While there's nothing wrong with looking at other folks, looking at what they're doing, in order to get some ideas for your own operation, replicating their ideas, replicating the way that they do things on your own farm doesn't mean that you're going to replicate their success. For instance, if I were to come on my farm and try to basically just become a carbon copy of everything that Joel Salton is doing on his farm, I would probably go broke. And why is that? Well, that's because my market is not going to support those types of things, at least here in this location. For instance, my market isn't going to support non-GMO products. There's just no demand for it. In fact, many people in my market consider it to be overpriced. Now, does that mean that I feel the same way? No, not at all. Well, the same is true whenever it comes to grass-fed, grass-finished beef. My market prefers to have beef that is finished, at least on some type of grain, because that's what they're used to. Again, does that mean that I'm against grass-finished or grass-fed beef? Well, no, not at all. In fact, I would love it if people in my market, if that's all they wanted, was grass-fed, grass-finished beef. But again, that's not what the market is driving for. It's important to understand what your market will actually support and to try to find your place in it, which I'll touch on that just a little bit more here in a moment. While I am a supporter of Joel Salatin, I'm a fan of his, I've read most of his books, I'll tell you this, I think that probably what we need to take away from guys like him, more so than anything else, is that we have to learn how to think for ourselves. Sometimes we have to pick our battles. If you're an ideological purist, whenever it comes to non-GMO, grass-based diets, those kinds of things, understand that if you're in a market that doesn't support it, you're not going to have as much success as you would in other places. If I were closer to a large city, I could probably jump right into that and not have any problems at all. However, I'm in a very, very rural location, a very isolated rural location. In fact, the closest town for 100 miles from me is only about 10,000 people. So I'm kind of isolated here from a large population center. And that means that I have to adapt to fit the wants and the needs of the people in that area if I don't want to move. Sometimes if we draw a line in the sand whenever it comes to principle, we can very quickly find ourselves as the only people standing on our side of the line. So like I said, think about yourself, think about your own situation, and try to figure out what works best for you. Now, the fourth thing that I want you to consider is how to adapt to your market. Now, as I mentioned a little bit ago, it's very important that you figure out where your place is, how you fit into your market. So if you are a direct-to-consumer operation, or if you plan to follow more traditional routes, more traditional channels for what you're producing, you still have to figure out where you fit into your market. So as I just mentioned, there's a lot of folks in my area that are not going to be interested in the same products that folks in larger population centers will be. They're just not, because they have different tastes, they have different ideals, they have different things that they desire, things that they want to buy. So it's important for me to understand what they want and how to meet their needs. Now, if I'm planning to produce cattle that I'm just going to take to the sale barn, well, then I need to know a few things about the sale barn, right? What kind of animals sell the best at the sale barn? What breed? What color of their hide? What size? What weights? All of those kinds of things. Are there certain times that 400 weights may be the hot sellers versus 500 or 600 weights, or vice versa? Who's doing all of the buying? Are these people that are buying the animals to take them back to their farm and to grow them out and finish them and bring them back later? Or are they feed lots? Again, who's the market? When your profit margin is slim, it's important for you to understand how the market can fluctuate and how that can affect you so that you can get the most out of what you're producing. So if you're a direct-to-consumer operation, then I would encourage you to go to the farmer's market. Go to places like that. See what sells the best. See which vendors are the most popular. See what they're sold out of. Go at different times of the day. What times of day is the market the busiest? Okay? And again, are there certain vendors that are very popular throughout the day, or do they only have certain time periods that they're very popular? Again, all of these things play into determining where you fit within the marketplace. If you're planning to take your animals to the sale barn, go watch sales. Go sit at the sale barn and see what's going on. Get to know some of the people there. Figure out what the dynamic is between the buyers and the sellers and all of these things. Get an idea for which animals maybe are favored by the sale barn, by buyers, whatever it may be. Again, look for these patterns and try to learn something about, again, where you fit into the marketplace. And now the last thing is to have a plan. I know that may sound kind of simple, and in some cases it is, because I know that sometimes whenever we start something new, we just run at it headlong and we don't really think a whole lot about it. In fact, I had an economics professor in college who also taught ag science, who said that a farm is probably the easiest business in the world to start. Now, it may not be that easy to keep going, but it's easy to start because you can go buy some dirt and some seeds and say, hey, I'm a farmer. But in reality, you're not gonna find much success at anything unless you have a real plan. And a real plan means that you have to have concrete ideas, you have to have goals, you have to have all of these things and a way to get to where you want to go. Now, I don't want you to get lost in the planning phase so much so that you never actually do anything, okay? The whole paralysis by analysis kind of thing. But I want you to actually have some direction for what you want to do. So here's a few questions that you might consider whenever it comes to planning for a farm. Number one, what do I want my farm to be? Am I gonna be a market garden? Am I going to be a cattle operation? Am I going to be a multi-tiered operation? Am I gonna have multiple kinds of animals? Am I gonna be stacking and stacking layers upon layers? Whatever it may be, what's my plan? What do I want to be? And you also have to ask yourself, well, what's it gonna take to get to what I want to be? And how much of this can I do on my own? Am I gonna have to have some help? And maybe more importantly, does my family support this idea? Is my family on board with this? Is this something that they want as well? Then once you kind of have those questions answered, at least in your mind, it's a good idea to sit down and to start actually writing out your plan. Write down some goals. Write down your larger goals. And then underneath those larger goals, write out maybe some of the smaller goals, the steps that it takes to get to those larger goals. Like I said, you're trying to make a roadmap of how to get from this point to that point, from here you're jumping off point to what you want your farm to be years down the road. So again, you have to set some realistic goals and figure out what it's gonna take you to get there. And within all of that, this part right here could possibly be the most important, which is to keep that plan handy, to keep your list of goals handy. Keep it somewhere where you can pick it up and you can look at it and you can actually see where you are on that roadmap. Okay, again, make a list and check things off as you're going through your list. And you might be amazed at how motivating that can be to go down through and to be able to cross things off that list, to put a check mark beside one of your goals and say, hey, we've accomplished that. And to see just how much closer you're getting to achieving what your ultimate goal is or what the greater picture, the greater plan overall is for your farm. So it actually looks like I'm wrapping this up at about the right time. I think we're starting to get some rain. So if you enjoyed this video, please do me a favor and hit that like button. If you haven't yet, I would ask respectfully that you please consider subscribing to our channel. And as always, I appreciate you watching. We'll see you next time.