OVER 5OOO TEACHERS TRAINED IN ICT MODERN AGRICULTURE TECHNIQUES
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CqkISnvh0M0
News & Politics
 A two-day teachers training program facilitated by the President of the Senate, Senator Gautil Apwavio, has been concluded in Akwaibom State. The training, which took place from Wednesday to Thursday at Isieno de Mluku Government's area of Akwaibom, focused on information and communication technology and modern agricultural practices. Our correspondent Emmanuel Salas has details. It was a two-day intensive training for teachers in Akwaibom State, as educators gathered at Isieno de Mluku Government's area to upgrade their skills in information and communication technology and modern agricultural practices. The training aimed to empower teachers with the necessary skills to integrate technology into agricultural practices, thereby enhancing both teaching methods and productivity. Some participants were engaged in interactive sessions covering topics such as digital farming techniques, the use of mobile applications for farm management, and strategies for marketing agricultural products online. Said the training has exposed them to new possibilities in teaching agriculture. I have achieved so many things in this training that I came for. Personally, it is not only using chalk to teach in the classroom. We are also asked to use our hands in doing things like farming, trading. Personally, I am in love with farming. So with those skills, I will be able to advance more. Apart from the theoretical parts, we are asked as a teacher, we have to do the practical because of things have changed. It is not only about the theory, we have to go into the practical aspect of it. So now the Senate president, the president, through the Small Scale and BDM Enterprises Agency decided to train teachers to have other skills that will be used in ending their livings. It is very interesting because they talk about communication, how to make use of our phone so that we will not be due by some criminals out there. They tell us about how to make use of a computer, phone to avoid problems on your password or transfer. When you want to transfer money to someone, you have to be careful because if you do mistake, give your code to someone, they may use it to dub you. Others admitted that the training has empowered them with innovative tools and techniques to integrate technology into marketing of agricultural products. I'm very, very happy. I want to appreciate his excellency for the love that he has for the people of Ecorequenet Sanitaria for sending this kind of training to us. We have not been seeing such a great training to us. We have not been seeing such. But through our Senate president, we saw all these things. May God bless him. The training is very, very interesting. I am very happy about this program. And I even thank God for those people that have made provision for this program to lift up our knowledge on this, most especially on this computer training. So I am very, very happy about it. And I pray that God should continue to give the organizer knowledge and interest on the teachers in particular in Aquaevam States. Also speaking, the facilitators encouraged the participants to share their knowledge with peers and implement innovative practices in their schools and communities, especially on information and communication technology, ICT and modern agricultural practices. Okay, basically the event is just to equip most importantly teachers and of course teachers are the very key part of every child who is going to school, you know, child's life and basically they are to equip them with the right information. And today is about the ICT training. And so we have teachers, we have, who have come, who have, you know, come together to ensure that they have the right information, right information rather, when it comes to teaching the students in various institutions, whether primary or secondary school. SMIDAN is here to coordinate it. That is part of what we as staff of SMIDAN are here to do, like myself, and to monitor the program. SMIDAN is here to help us with the guidelines, because for every program there is a guideline. With renewed energy and a wealth of knowledge, the teachers left the training ready to inspire the next generation in modern agricultural engagements. Emmanuel Silas, ADBN News.