Perennials and Natives for SCV October 2021 Webinar
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cRsc5HgGoGY
Science & Technology
 Welcome to our, okay, so hello everybody, welcome to the virtual gardening class and my name is Barbara Colley. I'm a water education instructor here at the Santa Clarita Valley Water Agency and we present educational programs to K through 12, grades K through 12 in the Santa Clarita Valley. And we've got a few informational slides to share with you before our main presenter, John Windsor. So the topic today is perennials and natives for the SCV. Okay, so now we are on zoom, right, so you obviously know it is because you're here right now. And if you have any questions there's the email address. I've put all of these relevant email addresses and web addresses in the chat session so you should see that. Also, if you have any questions, you can enter them into the Q&A portion and the Q&A box is at the bottom. Okay, so, and at the end we will have questions and answers. So, Santa Clarita Valley Water, we service these areas. Here's the boundaries that we cover here. And so it's 195 square miles, so it's in all the Santa Clarita towns and also unincorporated areas. So, 74,000 customers and the total population is 273,000. And the drought ready SCV, there's the website and that would be in your chat right there. And these are just things that we can do to save water as residents of the Santa Clarita Valley and of California. So, the idea is we'd like everyone to voluntarily reduce their water consumption and use by 15%. Example would be maybe fixing leaky faucets, checking the lawn irrigation system, because it is about 50% of our water use is inside and 50% is outside on our lawns. And we have rebates. And we have rebates. And so different ones such as a pool cover, lawn replacement, smart controller, and also a free water efficiency kit. And there's more information about that smart controller rebate. And again, that web address is there in your chat. There's also a water smart workshop that you can do. And this is a totally online course. And by finishing that, you get a $20 credit on your water bill. Lots of resources are available to you. So, landscape resources. We have something from Better Homes and Gardens about Southern California gardening tips. And then there's different tours and galleries of landscapes in the SCV. And just different things to have hints. So, this conservation tips for indoor and outdoor use. So, we have a Facebook page. We have an Instagram. We have a Twitter. And also a YouTube. And those are the ways to get to those. All right. And that's that. Okay. So, now I am going to turn it over to John. So, John Windsor, he is a certified arborist and California certified nursery man. He's been in the horticultural advisor in Santa Clarita for the last 22 years. And has a teaching credential in horticulture. And teaches gardening and landscape classes at the local adult school in Santa Clarita Department of Parks and Rec. So, now I am going to turn it over to John. And I'm going to stop this share and then start a new share with John's information. It's ready. Okay. So, folks, welcome to the webinar. And so, these plants that we're going to be looking at today, they will all grow here, obviously, in the SCV. And they are all water conserving or drought tolerant plants. So, without having to tell you when we get to each and every plant. Because there's going to be a lot. We've got a lot of plants on this particular presentation. So, if you understand that they're all going to be drought tolerant. And we'll also say, for the sake of argument, that they are all for full sun. So, what I will do as we go through these various plants is if any of them are not full sun, then I will mention that. So, if I don't say anything about the plant. We can just assume it's drought tolerant, takes full sun, and should be very hardy. Okay. Next. So, we're going to start with some plants that are very colorful and durable. This particular one is very low. So, if you wanted a very low plant to mix in or to put as a little border or in between rocks, the Armeria would be a very good choice. Next. Next. And there's another picture of it. And you can see from the information there that it blooms heavily in the spring and early summer. And then some blooms beyond that. Now, you'll also notice that it says needs excellent drainage. That's also something that probably all of these plants would appreciate. In other words, if you have a heavy soil, if you really have a lot of clay in your soil, then you may want to amend it, add some loose material to it. Okay. Next. And these are just some varieties of the same plant. Next. Next. Next. And gladia. This is a plant from the Midwest, the Great Plains. Beautiful flower. Yellow. And it is a perennial. And what that means, basically, is that it's going to last more than one year. And quite often, they reproduce from seed. Next. There's a close-up of the flower. And as you can see, there's several different varieties, varying from yellows, oranges, and reds. Next. Next. Next. Next. Here's a real tough plant, the red-hot poker. You've maybe seen this around. When it's blooming, it's really fantastic. And talk about a durable plant that you never have to do much to. This would be it. Next. Next. And you see there, it says minimal winter soil moisture. That pretty much means you may not have to water it at all in the winter, forget any rain at all. Now, last year, probably would have wanted to water it about once a month. Okay. Next. Here's a close-up of the picture. Very pretty. And as you can see, it attracts the hummingbirds. Next. Another grassy plant with a pretty flower on it. Kind of reddish. Once again, once it's established, if you were to water it occasionally during the summer, it would continue to bloom. Next. And there's a close-up of one just standing all by itself. Kind of pretty. And you can see it's right by a roadway there and gravel around it. So that means that heat-tolerant thing is for real. Okay. Next. Here's a close-up of the flower. Very pretty. And once again, yes, the hummingbirds like it. Next. Okay. Verbena. Now, there's many varieties of verbena. They're all quite pretty. And this particular one is a very tall one. I kind of like it. It'll... You can plant it at the base of some smaller shrubs. And only the flowers will reach above it. Very nice. Also good in a rock garden. Kind of a neat plant. Next. And there's a close-up of the whole plant. But you can see how the actual flowers are quite a bit higher than the plant. So it's easy to kind of hide the plant and just enjoy the flowers. Next. Next. Here's a close-up of those flowers. And... I probably water mine about once every two weeks during the summer. And it does well. Next. Here's a California native. The California fuchsia. And if you go hiking much in the local mountains, you'll see this plant blooming in the spring. So it's in almost all of the... If you go up to Towsley Canyon or any of the hiking places, particularly if we get a wet spring, you'll see it blooming like crazy. Next. And there's a close-up of the flowers. And yes, once again, the hummingbirds love them. Okay. Next. Here we see a nice close-up. And when it says good on hillsides, that's actually where you're going to find it when you're up hiking. It'll almost always be coming out of the side of a hill, the side of a mountain. Almost never just out on the flatlands. Next. Next. Next. And here's your helps. You've probably all seen this plant. Yellow daisy plant. Just a tremendous bloomer all the time. But all you have to do is trim it back after every flush of blooms. Next. And there's a close-up of the flower. Like I say, you cut it back a couple times a year. They're good for anywhere from three to five years. At that point, they get a little bit woody. And you probably want to take them out and replace them with a smaller plant. So when you do buy this plant, don't buy a full-grown one. Buy a relatively small one. That way you'll be able to enjoy it for several years. Next. Next. Next. Next. This is a close-up of the flowers. This is a very pretty plant. Very common and durable. Next. another plant in the chrysanthemum family different flowers so you can see we can get some pinks and reds etc there's even a blue marguerite daisy next and there's a close-up of the flowers very pretty you can grow them in containers and once again some of these perennials are good for two to three years or so then they get a little woody and you should take them out and replace them next and there's another marguerite daisy now right now if you go to the nurseries you'll find chrysanthemum in full bloom this is really uh the fall is a great time for chrysanthemums next and there's the blue one the blue marguerite daisy and it's a it's a low growing rounded plant doesn't need much trimming at all if you want to deadhead it that will encourage it to continue to plume next here's a close-up of it and you can see that dark green foliage that it really stands out nicely and once again can grow in a container can grow in a rock garden or you can do a whole mass of them and uh it uh you can probably find a place in almost any yard for this plant next there's a close-up of the flower next okay uh status or sometimes called sea lavender limonium you've probably seen this plant it's uh the plant itself is very low growing but then it gets these huge clusters of purple and white flowers up above it and uh they make a good cut flowers bloom all the time uh the plant itself is once again it's a perennial so it's good anywhere from once again three to probably five years at which point it just get too woody you wouldn't like it and you'd tear it out and replace it with another small one next there's a close-up of the flower and the foliage so the foliage itself doesn't get too terribly tall now the flower does the flower will get up of two feet maybe even three feet above the plant doesn't like cold weather wouldn't have been a problem last year but every once in a while we do get a cold winter next and there's a close-up of that flower like i say very pretty and you can cut that flower and use it in flower arrangements it lasts a very long time next and this plant you've probably seen before dusty miller it's a way of getting some gray foliage into your garden that may have an awful lot of green in it now the flowers themselves uh my a lot of people consider them to be a distraction to the plant because if you really plant it for silver foliage next and there you get a good shot of that silver foliage that's that's really what you use the plant for and you see there it says thrives on neglect but demands once again the well-drained the well-drained soil next and there's a picture of the flower which like i said a lot of people just cut that flower off just to enjoy the gray foliage or silver foliage next okay hookah now here's a plant coral bells of which there are dozens and dozens of variety now i told you that i would make note or let you know if any of these plants wasn't well adapted to full sun all day so i think i will make a little note about this plant here it does well underneath trees does well in rock gardens does well with some protection from the hot afternoon sun next next there's a picture of the the flowers which thus give it the name coral bells but the foliage is just very nice it's a small rounded shrub and the foliage can come in dozens of different colors next that's a dark green foliage there but it also comes in purple foliage red foliage pink foliage large leaf foliage and tiny leaf foliage so you plant it mostly for the foliage next and here's a plant that many of you have probably seen now this particular one the picture is of the myrii oftentimes called the foxtail firm this plant will grow well in containers it will grow well outside in the ground looks a little nicer if it's given some protection from the hot afternoon sun now there is another variety called the springer i don't plant that one don't plant that the other one for any reason that one can be a bit invasive and very difficult to eradicate this particular variety here the myrii is not a problem at all it stays put it doesn't spread and needs very little care next next there's the other variety the one that spreads out and i would caution against planting that it has thorns it's difficult to eradicate just just avoid it there's plenty of other good plants next next next next and this is at the bottom there you'll see one called retrofraxis that one grows almost like a vine so it will grow upright on a trellis or something of that nature it's makes good cut foliage however be careful it does have thorns i grew it one time to use the foliage but i don't think i'd use it again the thorns are well hidden in there and when you're cutting it and using it for floral arrangements you'll find out about those thorns next okay coreopsis now the galardia that we saw earlier is is a another native to the Midwest the Great Plains as well as this one here the coreopsis so obviously they're going to just take all the heat and sun that you can give it and once again cutting back the dead flowers might be all you have to do to this plant next and there's a close-up of the flowers once again there's a couple different varieties of this plant almost always the flowers are yellow and foliage changes a little bit some are a little shorter more compact some have interesting looking foliage next so there's a close-up of a flower on the coreopsis very pretty plant very durable next so salvia now here's a plant that I think you're very familiar with and I think everybody should have at least one or two varieties of salvia in their yards the hummingbirds love them and the butterflies but and the bees and the birds everybody seems to like this plant blooms for a very long period of time you can prune it down in early spring and it'll shoot right back up on you there's many different varieties this particular one here the red one I've grown it and from the minute it begins to flower until it begins to die back in December I had hummingbirds to it every day next next there's a picture of one of the Mexican varieties they have a bluer flowers completely different foliage and some can be huge they can range anywhere from four feet to six feet just in one year and then you cut it back down to the ground in the winter next and so the salvia gregei or often times called the autumn sage that's the one that I think you'll enjoy if you like having hummingbirds around they seem to like the red flowers but there's also pink and lavender and a whole array of colors next next okay now columbine I'm sure you've all heard of that and once again native to the Midwest here in California California we find that this plant does a little bit better with some of that afternoon shade so other than that it it should be fine if we get a cold winter sometimes it will just die down to the ground but comes back again in the spring next here's a close up with a picture of the flowers very pretty and they kind of hang upside down but a lot of the bumblebees and hummingbirds and things like that next and here's one growing kind of wild in a rock garden and they can they can they can grow in in surprising places poor soil everything of that sort so very durable next next and of course everybody knows about these guys the lily of the Nile and once again a couple different varieties there's a door a door that maybe 18 inches tall to the standard one which can get four feet tall and if you like them you like them not much to say about it you can dig them up every few years and divide them because they continue to grow bigger and bigger from the base next there's a close up of the door there and you see the flowers rising above it so in June it'll give you some flowers but that's it that's the only time it'll flowers in June so for 11 months you're looking at the green plant and in June you get to watch the flowers bloom next there's a close up of the flowers but I think most of you have seen this plant and like I said like I said if it's something you like once you plant one you'll have it forever next okay and daylilies daylilies are probably a little more interesting than the agapanthus because for one thing they bloom for a longer period of time secondly you get some different colors yellows oranges and reds and there are dwarf varieties where the plant stays quite low but the flowers come up above them next there's a close up of just one single plant growing by itself and so there are evergreen and deciduous varieties the deciduous varieties in a cold winter will pretty much disappear and then come back up in the spring and and it's not a bad idea to cut them back anyway in the late spring or I'm sorry late winter early spring next here's a little dwarf one going all by itself there and you can see the yellow flowers quite pretty next next now these are this is a grass here this one is the purple fountain grass and there's different varieties once again dwarf and a regular one if you cut it back it comes back quite nicely and we'll get you that red foliage that you like with the plumes next slide and here's what an individual plant looks like if you don't cut it back then you'll get the old yellow foliage mixed in with the new red one and that won't look quite as nice some of these varieties like the red ones are pretty good they won't they won't set seed they won't spread but don't plant the green varieties I would hope that most nurseries won't sell them next next next next next next next next next next next next next next next next next next next next next next Quora Guora Guora Guara Guara Guara Guara Guara. Here's a very interesting plant, native to Texas. There's at least three varieties. This one here is the wand flower, has the tallest flowers sprawling plants with pink white or red flowers. Give them room. Very pretty. Can spread a bit. Next. Then we will There's the dwarf. Beautiful little plant. A deep pink flower. Doesn't get too big, two feet or so, so it doesn't sprawl quite as much as the other varieties. But once again, thrives on neglect. Next. Next. Siskiyou pink. That's the one with the pink foliage and pink flowers. And then there's a couple other varieties that they've come up with. All of them very neat. Very neat. But give them a room. Give them room because they do like to sprawl and spread out. Next. Virginia. You won't see this one too much unless you visit somebody's shade garden. So here's a plant that definitely wants the shade. Also wonderful in a container. Has a big heart-shaped leaf. Big foliage. And then a pink flower. Next. Next. There's a picture of the foliage. And it's called heartleaf virginia for just that reason. Excellent under trees. And like I say, it does need shade. Regular watering. So this is a little different than most of the other plants we've talked about. Next. Next. Here's a close-up of the flower. Very pretty. So most yards have a small shady section. So this might be the plant to put in that area. Next. Now, Mexican evening primrose. I just want you to read that very bottom line there. Okay. For those of you that are having trouble reading it, I'll tell you what it says. Vigorous growing ground cover that can be invasive. I don't even know if they need to say can be. They could just say is invasive. Next. Pretty pink flower. So it tempts people to plant it. And another one of these plants. Think long and hard before you plant it. You really want to, you really want to have this plant. Because once you do, you may never get rid of it. Next. Here it is. You can see it just fills every space it can get. I've seen people that had areas where they could use it because they didn't water. Or it was just open area. So they didn't care if it spread. But in our. Small. Gardens. If we want a well-kept garden, this would not be a welcome addition. Next. Artemisia. Another way to get some pink. I'm sorry. Some gray. Gray foliage. Into the garden. So we saw the Dusty Miller earlier. And this one, the Artemisia. Is a nice plant. We have some natives. Grow up in the mountains. That are members of this family. And they're very fragrant. Very pretty. Very soft plants. They can be cut back every year. And they come right back up. So real nice way to get some contrast. Color contrast in the garden. Next. There's a small one right there. And. It does seem to be rabbit resistant. In other words, they don't care much for it. Good drainage. Poor soils. I mean, if it grows up in the mountains, you know, it's not too fussy about the soil. Next. And there's a close-up of the foliage. And some different varieties. Some are very tight and low to the ground. And some get quite big. And. But like I say, very, very pretty foliage. And very soft foliage. And a nice fragrance. Next. Myoporum. Here's a ground cover. That's often used as a lawn substitute or on a hillside. Where it can cover a hill and prevent erosion. It's good as a lawn substitute because it doesn't need to be mowed. It doesn't need to be watered as much. Very little care. It doesn't need to be fertilized. So a lot of advantages to growing this plant. Next. And there's a close-up. A upright variety. That. We don't grow too much out here. We mostly grow the ground cover type. Next. Next. Here's another picture of the. Upright varieties. They tend to be more frost sensitive. The ground cover can take the cold weather and come back quite nice. This one doesn't react as well when it gets cold. Next. Acacia. Good on a slope. You maybe see these growing by the freeways, etc. Australian native. Just tough as nails. Just put it in the hottest, driest spot in the yard and it'll thrive. Next. The gray foliage, yellow flowers, kind of pretty. Requires no maintenance. Next. And there's a close-up of the yellow flowers. All the acacias get you some yellow flowers. Low boy and desert carpet are two varieties that are used as ground covers. Because they're relatively low and easy to grow. Next. Next. Now, this is an Asian jasmine. Doesn't have the aroma of the star jasmine. But is much lower growing. And makes a pretty good ground cover. I've seen this grow in areas that were partly sunny, maybe morning sun or filtered sun. And it's very attractive, very neat. Green all year with a shiny leaf. Next. And doesn't bloom as much, but there's a close-up of the bloom. Next. And there it is as a low-growing ground cover. Next. Now, germander. This is in a family that includes tucrium, it includes oregano, and several herb plants that you maybe have heard of, marjoram. They're all in the same family. And they're all very durable. This one has some pretty flowers to it. There's varieties that stay very low. There's some that get up to a foot tall. They make a great ground cover. Next. There's a close-up of the flowers. So, kind of neat. Underused, I would say. Underused plants. So, this could be in the forefront and you could have taller plants behind it. Next. Another close-up of the flowers. Next. Okay. A yarrow. Most of you are probably familiar with yarrow. And it can be a great plant. There are some varieties you can use as a ground cover or lawn substitute. Some varieties you can even mow them. Just make sure that you get the right variety. Next. Some varieties spread quite a bit. And some people would consider them to be invasive. You should cut them back at least once a year. They do like hot, sunny areas. And if you cut off the old flowers, they look a little bit better. Next. Here's a close-up of the foliage. So, kind of pretty foliage. And like I said, there's many different types of yarrow. Make sure you choose the right one for your location. Next. Coyote bush. Still available. Not quite the rage it was 20 years ago or so when we had a tremendous drought. It's a native. And it's just green. Makes a good ground cover. Perhaps on slopes. In sunny, dry areas. Next. But, like I said, just green. And very tough, though. Very tough. So, if you just wanted to fill in some space with a drought-tolerant, sun-loving plant, this would be a good choice. Next. There's a picture of the flowers. And there are some different varieties. Pigeon point and twin peaks are some varieties that will make better ground covers. Next. Calicole. These are pretty little plants. They look a lot like a succulent. They got attractive foliage. Pretty flowers. And they do well in containers. They can also go outside in the garden. Probably give them a little bit of shade from the afternoon sun. Next. And there's a picture of them without the flowers on them. But they're great little plants. Real tough. And, like I said, they're great in containers or hanging baskets. Next. Here's a close-up of the flower. So, very pretty flower. And they have hybridized it to produce other types of other colors in the flowers, too. Next. Echeveria. Another pretty little succulent. This particular one is called Hens and Chickens. Excellent. Excellent in a container. Excellent in the ground. And you can take one of those little plants off and start a new plant from it very easily. Next. And there's a close-up of one in a container. Once again, you plant this in a cactus mix. And they'll do quite well with infrequent watering. Next. And there's a picture of the flower. And there's this more uses for it. Ground cover, containers, rock gardens. Just about anywhere you want to put this plant. Next. And Dudley. Another native plant that I have seen when I'm hiking on steep hillsides and cliffs. Very neat-looking little plant. Once again, grow it in a container or in the ground with fast drainage. Relatively dry soil. Next. Here's a close-up. Very pretty little plant. It will produce a little flower spike. That's kind of nice. And once again, great in a succulent garden or cactus garden or rock garden. Next. And there's a close-up of a couple of them. Using California natural areas. Because it is a native. Go ahead. Next. Crassula. Everybody knows the jade plant. You should know this plant. It's a very common California plant. Grows like crazy. And you can take a piece, stick it in the ground, and grow a new plant. Next. Does well in containers. And you can break it off if it gets too big or cut it back. And put it in the ground if you want. It'll be there for a long time. Next. And occasionally, it will bloom. And there's new varieties. And most of them look best with at least a half-a-day sun. If you want to give them some shade, make it from the hot afternoon sun. Next. Wisteria. Okay. I think you know this plant, too, with its pretty flowers that hang down in bunches. Typically purple or blue. But there are some red, pink, and white varieties. And they will take a while to bloom. But once they bloom for you, they will bloom for you every year. Next. There they are. You can see how pretty that is. Be real careful on the pruning. Only prune right after the flowering. Sometimes pruning in the winter cuts off some of the wood that would produce flowers the following year. Okay. Phosphorus will help it to continue to bloom. Although it is not a plant that needs much nitrogen. So as a wound, avoid fertilizing and avoid watering too much. Sometimes they don't bloom if they are given regular water and regular food. Next. There is a pretty picture of one of the purple ones hanging down from an arbor. Next. Here's another vine called cat's claw. And it is called that because as it grows, it literally does produce these little attachments that have claws on them. And they'll stick to anything. And that allows the plant to hold on to stuff as it grows up. Yellow flowers in the spring. Very durable plant. Next. Next. And can also be grown on the ground as a ground cover. It takes as much heat as you can give it in any type of soil. Next. Another vine. With yellow flowers. But it does not have the. Claws of the. previous plant. So this one here, you probably do want to attach it to get it going. And very nice plant. Blooms best in sunny areas and blooms best in the spring. Next. Then there's a close-up of the flower. Very pretty flower. Once established, doesn't need much water and just about any kind of soil. Next. And there's a pretty picture of one off a fence there. Next. Another vine. This one comes from Australia. What's neat about it is it blooms very early in the season with these purple flowers. So most people will mix this with another vine because this vine probably be all done blooming by mid to late March. So then you'd just be looking at green foliage. Next. And that's really what you want to see in the flowers. So if you were to mix that with another vine that perhaps blooms in the spring or summer, then that way you'd be able to take advantage of these late winter, early spring blooms on the hardened Bergea. Next. Another jasmine. This one here is the pink jasmine. Extraordinarily fragrant. starts to bloom pretty early, sometimes late January, certainly throughout February and March. Uh overpowering fragrance, I would call it. Next. Next. There's a picture. That's why it's called pink jasmine. The flowers are actually white, but the buds are pink. Uh prune it back right after it flowers. Uh because the plant can look a little messy. If you leave the dead flowers on it. Next. Next. And that's a variety of the plant that has some variegation to it. Next. Uh trumpet vines. Once again, several different varieties of trumpet vines. Uh this particular one has a deep red trumpet. And now it blooms late spring to early summer. Uh next. Here's a pretty picture of the foliage. Very neat foliage. Uh and the buds just beginning here. And like I said, there are some different varieties with different flowers. Next. Next. There's a close up of a red one. Beautiful. And there's purple flowered ones too. Very nice vines. Next. And ficus. Creeping fig. You've probably all seen or heard of this plant. Uh it'll attach to stucco or block walls. Uh. Can be invasive. Also. If you're trying to garden in front of it. The roots and the plant itself will come out. Towards the garden. So you see this location right here. There's almost no place for it to grow but upright. So that's what it's doing. But given it's druthers. It would uh it would come out into the garden or out into the street. Next. There's a close up of its juvenile leaves. The uh leaves very small like this when they're young. But as it matures. The leaves get quite large and it'll actually will produce a uh three inch long oblong fruit. Next. Next. Next. And there's a close up of some of the bigger leaves as it gets uh more mature. Next. Oh. Did we run out of slides? Yes. Very good. Okay. I think we probably have some questions from the audience now. Right. Questions from the audience. All right. So first question is uh Zhaushnaria, California. Can it take direct full sun? Uh typically when I see it growing up the mountains it's growing on the side of the hill where it would only get half a day sun. Sometimes underneath oak trees. So I would say no. I would say it'd be best uh on a slope or under a tree where it would get uh half a day sun or filtered sun. Okay. Uh these plants that take little maintenance. Do they slough off at their base? In other words, do they need hand picking versus raking the base? Oh uh uh I I don't know. I've got several of these plants myself. I don't rake at all. I uh I dread the man that invented the rake. Okay. Okay. Can you recommend how to get rid of the bad kind of asparagus fern? Uh yeah dig and sift through the soil. In other words dig it up get yourself a garden flat or some sort of sifter and sift out all those little round balls. And then tell everybody you know to never plant that plant. Okay. How does one prune coreopsis to make it bushy? Well coreopsis is going to do what it wants to do as far as the size of the plant. And since you're only going to have it yeah maybe three years or so uh when it just gets to where you don't like the size of it anymore just take it out plant a new smaller one. So the trimming that you give it would be mostly a deadheading it. You can take a little bit of the foliage off when you do that and that'll be fine. All right. And then how does salvia respond to less sun northern exposure during winter? Not well at all. Not well at all. That plant really does uh like the sun. And if you have an area of the yard that is going to be shaded all winter long you're probably not going to be terribly happy with the salvias. Maybe some of the other plants we uh talked about would be better in that location. Uh I've planted and grown several varieties of uh salvia and they've all performed best in the sun. And then who is Wheeler Company? Oh Wheeler yeah that's a that's Tim Wheeler. He's he's my boss. He's the fellow that puts these presentations together. He's a great horticultural mind and uh he works for the uh various water agencies. Uh just a wonderful fella and Wheeler Company is uh the invention of Tim Wheeler. All right. Okay. I find my front yard plants struggle in the summer. I only plant full sun plants but it seems like the flowers portion of the plant will burn up. Are there any recommendations on how to prevent this? I've planted afrian lily, geraniums, petunia, and viney lantanas and they all have burnt up and I water them daily. Okay. Okay. That's a long one. Okay. No that's fine. Uh but the last sentence was the important one. Why why would you water these plants daily? Um we at the beginning of this program I I mentioned these plants are drought tolerant. Um so yes if you're going to water a geranium or lantana or any of those plants daily of course then no they will not perform well at all and they're not burning has nothing to do with the sun. It has to do with excessive watering. If you water lantana more than once a week truly you're wasting water. Uh truly. Uh uh and geraniums the only time I would water them more than once a week is if they were in a container and then I might water them every five days. So yeah watering your plants excessively uh is doing them harm. It's not the sunlight burning the flowers. It's the uh excessive water and plants also pick up root rots and then they perform poorly. So uh the idea of drought tolerant plants is uh that they don't need to be watered daily. Uh plants that get watered daily would be plants that originated in the rainforest and we don't grow any of those. We don't grow rainforest plants here. I can remember my little side note here. My mother went to Costa Rica and she sent me back a postcard from a rainforest there in Costa Rica and she says John you won't believe this. They get some form of rain some rain 350 days out of the year and I said mom you won't believe this. Here in Valencia where I live they water 365 days out of the year. And there you go. Okay is there a rattlesnake deterrent? Um well they don't like strong fragrances. Uh cedar mulch is good. As far as plants I have heard that rosemary and sages are good. Rosemary especially because it produces a uh a strong fragrance and an oil and the way it works is that any of these things that give off these oils uh when it's hot and sunny out uh it it tricks it tricks uh snakes that are going after the heat of a rodent. So if a rodent were to run into rosemary then the snake would have a difficult time finding it. So uh that's what I'll say about that and they do make some repellents for snakes uh and these are usually made out of cedar wood or castor oil or things with very strong fragrances so that the snake can't smell its its prey. Next. Okay. Can you give more information on cat's claw the origin on the slope also how to get rid of morning glory? Okay well uh cat's claw on a slope is fine if you have a wide open slope and uh you don't mind something just completely taking over okay uh cat's claw will grow on almost anything so if it's a chain link fence or if it's a block wall it will grow up it and uh you know some people might consider that to be a bit invasive okay now on morning glory well it's just one of those doggone plants that uh I try to warn people about I've warned you about asparagus turn I warned you about the other uh uh plant previously in the slides I think the Mexican evening primrose uh some plants are simply uh very invasive some plants are simply good probably shouldn't be grown um morning glory is or used to be not quite the problem because we had colder winters cold winters knock the morning glories down uh so areas like closer to the coast and in the Santa Monica mountains where they where they don't get frost the morning glory can be a incredible weed we don't plant them too much here but if you did you'd have trouble eradicating it because after a while it develops a tuber like a potato underground and you might kill off everything that's above ground and then next spring up would come one of those little vines again so do I have good advice uh spray spray them with uh an herbicide it's probably better than cutting them down because perhaps the herbicide could travel through the foliage and down into that tuber underground okay okay what is the name of the invasive ground covering plant that has little round hard seeds and have sharp thorns on them and how can you eradicate them they are terrible on my pet yeah yeah okay that's actually a uh a weed not a ground cover but it does spread like that uh it's got different names goat's head is a one name they give it puncture vine is the most common name they give it and yeah it's uh something I remember as a kid you didn't want to go barefoot through fields that had puncture vine in it you also didn't want to ride your bike through it um yeah that it's terrible and those those little balls those little goat's heads uh that's actually the seed so when they get caught up in your bicycle tire or your shoes or your dog's paws that's how it spreads and uh yes can take over large areas dreadful plant if you take it out when it's small it's very easy to remove when it's small just be very aware of those thorny balls on it when you're removing it not much other advice i can give to you except remove them remove them remove them okay what is a good plant for a south facing front yard that gets a lot of direct full sun yeah 97 of the plants we just saw basically i think i only mentioned maybe four plants out of the whole presentation uh that didn't want late afternoon sun but if you wanted me to just give you three right off top of my head i'd say rosemary lavender and sage okay um what is a good flower for a bank that bunnies won't eat i think we saw a couple of them during the presentation and the three that i just mentioned uh have a lot of oils in them basically herbaceous plants herb plants uh you might consider lavender to be an herb or rosemary or sage uh plants like that there was another one where one of the gray plants i think the artemisia also said that it was fairly rabbit proof um i don't think they care much for lantana in the way lantana grows so vigorously even if they did eat it it'd probably come back pretty well okay and uh should you grow lantana near huckleberry or sorry not huckleberry honeysuckle okay there you go go yeah i don't think we have huckleberries the follow-up was oops honeysuckle not huckleberry i don't know why it would matter uh honeysuckle is very vigorous once again honeysuckle is a sprawling vining type plant so i would think if there was any problem with that it might be that it might cover up the lantana because remember lantana even though it can get quite big certainly wouldn't consider it invasive and could be easily trimmed uh whereas honeysuckle that that's just the nature of the beast is that it wants to run and grow so it might so uh physically that might be the only reason not to have them near each other is that one might crowd out the other okay all right so that's all of the questions and uh thank you very much john for all this good information that you gave us today and next month it's going to be maintaining a sustainable landscape that's going to be um november 13th november 13th at 9 a.m okay i'll be here all right good okay uh no more questions from the uh the audience then i will say thank you thank you for uh joining us on the webinar and uh uh make sure you contact the people at scv water and tell them we want to be back live again soon a little pressure there okay okay all right all right okay bye bye bye you you you you