Farm Hands Needed ASAP!!!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ctb2O2RmQH8
Entertainment
 So here's my dilemma. I've got this large property and you can see I'm going in the 360. Back there's the marsh and this is all wooded area back in there, hundreds of acres. Okay, my camper, there's all my open pasture up that way. The problem is this little creek. This little creek, it's always running and this is what stands between me and the property up there. I can walk over there but I can't get my tractor over there. So what I'm doing is I'm building a bridge right here. I've got all the pieces already drilled out. Hinge on there, holes drilled. I need to just assemble this like an erector set to traverse this little patch of water. What I need are some volunteers to help me assemble this bridge. I need four strong hands. I'm only one hand so I'm not a lot of help. I can do some things but I can't lift anything like this right now. I also have a big project to get my tractor over here so I can blaze a really nice trail through these woods. It's beautiful back there. I can get to the Geauga Park via my property but there's prickers and trees that need to be cut up and I need to clear all that out as well in the coming weeks. I also want to make a few really choice campsites out in the woods. I have endless campsites in the open fields between my property and my neighbors. But to get back in the woods and camp it'll be cumbersome until we get this bridge up and do some clearing. I'm also building a stage for our event right here in this pile of ones and twos. I'm going to need help erecting a stage. So if anybody's inclined to volunteer their services to help me tackle this, I'm also willing to pay for labor if you have any strong hands who are willing to come and assist. I want to get this bridge going tomorrow which is Monday so I can get a move on this thing because that's holding me back from getting my equipment back into the woods. Anyways, if you have any interest in helping out or can give me a name of somebody that might be able to help out, please message me. I appreciate it. Have a great day.