How to Make Your Own Seed Starting Mix and  Potting Mix: Save 75% - The Rusted Garden 2014
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cTq1LncwcGQ
Howto & Style
 Welcome to the Rustic Garden. Today I want to show you how I make my seed starting mix. I bought a couple bag products but I'm going to show you how you can save a lot of money rather than buying it in eight quart bags like this where it cost this bag was actually four dollars and twenty five cents. But let me just start with the products. This is Paralyte. It's a volcanic rock that is heated and when it's heated it expands and you get the product that you've seen in a lot of starting mixes and potting soils. It's very lightweight and it's sterile and that's one of the keys that this is sterile. If you use soil from out in your garden you bring it in to start seed. You're bringing in fungus and bacteria and things that can harm your plant. This is peat moss. This is dry peat moss. It's very very lightweight water absorbent and you can buy this a couple of ways. I'll get back to that in a second. This bag of seed starting mix was four dollars and twenty five cents and it was eight quarts. This bag of Paralyte was also four dollars and twenty five cents. It's also eight quarts and I could have bought a third bag of just plain peat moss in the same at the same price. It would have been four dollars and twenty five cents. However if you go out into your garden section you can get three cubic feet of dried peat moss for about ten dollars and if you're not sure about that size it's the width of this table about this wide and it's about this tall. So it's a lot of peat moss and you're going to save yourself a lot of money. Rather than buying peat moss at four twenty five per eight quarts go and get three cubic foot bag. That's going to save you a lot of money. Now this is the seed starting mix that you buy and this is what it looks like and it's basically this is just wet peat moss and Paralyte. So you can make it yourself and end up saving a lot of money and I figured it out that this is four twenty five. You make it your own by buying the three cubic foot bags of peat moss and then adding in the Paralyte. It's only about a dollar a dollar fifty a bag. The way that I do it this is five bowlfuls of peat moss in the container and I add well this will be actually the fifth one put that in there and then one bowl of the Paralyte. So it's basically a five to one ratio. Five bowls of peat moss, one bowl of Paralyte. If you want you can add an extra bowl of the Paralyte or you can add in an extra bowl of peat moss. It's really up to you. You have a dry mix and you can see kind of the smoke coming up. Mix it up. The other thing that I add is fertilizer and this is one tablespoon of Garden Tone which is a I believe it's a 3-4-4 fertilizer and it's also it's their biotone formula which basically they're saying they're adding microorganisms into this to help the soil structure and help the plants grow. Now this is the dry mix. I mix this up really well. You want to add in about a cup of warm water. I'm going to stand up for that. And the reason you want to add the water is because peat moss and the Paralyte are dry and if you fill up your seed trays when you go to start your seeds with a dry mix and then you add water on the bottom that Paralyte and peat moss is just going to float. It's not going to absorb the water and you don't want that. So give me a second to mix this in. And because these are dry initially it's they kind of resist absorbing the water. So you're doing that now and once you're done and the water is absorbed you're going to have your starting mix it's going to be a lot less expensive than buying it in these bags and this is what you end up with. So for about a dollar, dollar fifty, a four quart bag if you build it this way or if you make it this way you end up with the seed starting mix it looks just like that. Looks leaving a little bit better than this. It has organic fertilizer in it and you're good to go. I hope you enjoyed the video. Please check out my blog at www.therustedgarden.blogspot.com and also check out my YouTube videos. Thanks!