2015 Alabama Fruit and Vegetable Growers Annual Conference and Tradeshow
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv370wx9iug
Education
 Hello, I'm Jimmy Witt. I'm the president of the Alabama Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association. I'd like to take this opportunity to thank all of our conference exhibitors and sponsors from our 2014 conference. We had six educational sessions and over 300 different attendees at our conference. I'm Doug Chapman. I'm a regional extension agent with the Alabama Cooperative Extension System. I work on the commercial horticulture team and I'd like to tell you a little bit about the workshops that will be held at the Alabama Fruit and Vegetable Growers Annual Conference and Trade Show in February. We'll have a fruit tree grafting workshop. We'll have a vegetable grafting workshop. We'll have a high tunnel workshop, a marketing workshop, and a beekeeping workshop. And these are all hands-on workshops. It's where you actually get to do something that you're interested in. And we look forward to having you in Auburn and we'll try to make you as welcome as we can. I'm a regional extension agent with the Cooperative Extension. I work in commercial horticulture. I'd like to invite you to the 2015 Alabama Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association conference in Auburn this year. And would love for you to come. Lots of educational sessions. Lots of speakers. Some from throughout the southeast. Cover a wide range of topics. And it's just part of what you would get from coming to this conference. Another thing that you'll benefit from is interacting with other growers and a trade show. And also we'll have some workshops. So if you're growing, if you're a producer now, or if you're thinking about being a producer, I think this will be very beneficial to you. I'd like to invite all of our sponsors, anyone who wants to become a sponsor or sponsor an event at the meeting. I invite you to become an exhibitor if you have products or services that you would like to offer someone in this field. I'd also like to invite you to become a member. And you can find a lot of this information on our website at afvga.aces.edu. We'll also have a form there where you can enroll or register online for the conference this next year. Or you can do it by paper also. You can also visit us on Facebook for more information.