Farm Fresh to You. UnBoxing of Fresh Organic Fruits and Vegetables
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CW7fOI1jaws
People & Blogs
 Hey there, today we're going to do an unboxing. We just got a box of fresh vegetables and fruit. You can see it's from Farm Fresh to You. Right there, Farm Fresh to You. There's the number, the 1-800 number. Here's the email address, www.farmfreshtou.com. And anyway, I get this package once a week, every Tuesday night. It comes delivery overnight, Wednesday morning. Voila, this is on the doorstep. So let's go ahead and take a look, see what's inside. Here we have the packing label. You can see we've got Fuji apples, black seedless grapes, baby red beets, rainbow carrots, fresh celery, dino kel, green romaine lettuce, and dill. Let's see what these look like. Let's take a quick look. Here we got the beets, beautiful, fresh beets. Here we have the dill. This is all organic, by the way, locally sourced. These are the rainbow carrots, beautiful. Ooh, look at that. Lots of rainbow carrots. The grapes. Here we have the grapes. One of the rainbow carrots. Here we have some kale. Looks pretty darn good to me. Here we have the celery. Fresh organic celery. The lettuce. And then we have, you can see we've got a ton of apples in there. And, uh, you can see we've got a ton of apples in there. And, uh, these were not on the packing list. We got them anyway. Avocados. So, we have some kale. I'm going to go ahead and take all this. I'm going to make juice out of it, probably. And, uh, that's for the first time we've got some kale. I'm going to go ahead and take all this. I'm going to make juice out of the juice. And, uh, most of this will end up as juice. Not the avocados, of course. But, the beets, the carrots, the celery, all this. I'm going to do that right now. In addition to avocado. I have a ton of apples in there. And, uh, these were not on the packing list. We got them anyway. But, the, uh, the beets, the carrots, the celery, all this. I'm going to do that right now. In addition, uh, I have a bunch of apples as well. Fuji apples. So, overall, I think, thumbs up for this week. I really like what I got. Thanks. I'll see you next time. Bye.