Soil Management Practices | Rainfall Simulator | Bayer
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CW84FdsnULA
Science & Technology
 My name is Charlie Forsman. We have our rain simulator set up to show how different management practices can have an impact on soil health. I have four examples prepared for our demonstration today. The first is conventional till where the soil is tilled year after year. The second is no-till where we leave all the plant debris in the field and do not disturb the soil at all. The third is no-till with a cover crop. So similar to no-till in that we leave the plant debris on the surface and then immediately after harvest we plant a green growing crop. And then fourth is our pollinator habitat area where we plant flowers, grasses, and shrubs to help support butterfly and bees. In our conventional tilled system we expect the raindrop to cause a lot of surface disruption carrying soil sedimentation and nutrients out of the field. In addition we'll see very little water infiltrate down to the soil surface staying in the field for the growing crop. In our no-till system, the soil surface is protected by plant debris therefore buffering the impact of the raindrops. As a result we see very little to no runoff. In addition the water has a chance to infiltrate down through the soil surface and stays in the field for the growing crop. In our no-till plus cover crop example we have plant debris left on the surface which helps buffer the raindrops and reduce the runoff. But in addition we have a green growing crop which has a root structure down below ground. That root structure creates micro pores and macro pores for the water to infiltrate through the soil and stay in the field. In our pollinator habitat example the soil surface is protected by plant debris. As a result we see very little to no runoff. In addition because this has been no-till for many years we have earthworm activity and many microorganisms that work in the soil creating opportunities for water infiltration. In summary agronomic practices such as no-till and no-till with cover crops greatly improve our soil health. We see more earthworm activity and a friendlier environment for microbial life. In addition we also see better soil structure, better soil porosity which allows for better water infiltration, keeping the water in the field where the farmer needs it most.