Cotton with George the Farmer
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cyzEjyHBlqc
Entertainment
 G'day, I'm Sean. And I'm Simone. And this is our mate George the Farmer. We've embarked on a journey all the way from South Australia to We War in New South Wales to discover where things like our shirts and our jeans actually come from. That's right. Hold on to your socks, guys. This one's a real stitcher. I think you're onto something, Sean, because apparently this incredible plant's fluffy white balls produce a fibre that can be used to make products like clothing, bedding, towels, a whole host of things. And its seed can be snacks for animals and even pressed to make oil. How cool is that, George? Cotton, cotton, cotton. It's used for many things. From your shirt to your jeans. There's just so many means. From paper to your sheets. You really can't beat that cotton. Well, if you haven't guessed what this incredible plant is yet, it's cotton. And my mate Daniel's family has been growing it for over 60 years in the fertile Namoi Valley in north-western New South Wales. The reason we love growing cotton here is it's a really rewarding crop to grow. It works really well with our other crops in looking after our soils and our environment. And it's a natural fibre. Synthetic fibres don't break down when we're finished using them, but when we're done using cotton, it breaks down and goes back to the earth. It's a natural fibre, it's the plant to grow. Biodegradable's the best way to go. Can reuse and recycle, let's be smart. Cotton in our lives does play a big part. Every cotton season kicks off in winter with soil preparation. We work really hard at improving our soils and encouraging lots of animals like bugs, microbats and birds in so that nature can help us grow the best crop possible. In spring, once the soil is warm enough that the plant will grow, we plant it and then we feed and water it through the summer. The plant puts on lots of cotton bowls and when they start to crack open in April, it's time for picking. Put the seed in the ground and watch the plant grow. Sunshine and reproduce fuzzy white bowls. So Daniel, this cotton crop looks pretty awesome, but how do you actually know when it's ready to pick? Well, Simone, the bowls on the plant start to open from the bottom and they work their way up to the top. When we see that nearly all of them are open, it's time for us to pick the crop. We're going to pick this one today. Wow! Crop is ready, farmer has a big grin when it's picked up and trucked out to the cotton gin. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh. It's taken 150 days of growing to reach harvest and the crop looks fantastic. The cotton goes through this yellow head here and the spindles inside are like little fingers that pull all the cotton off the plant. The cotton then gets blown up these black shoots into the back of the picker and there it rolls it into a great big bale. The cotton from Daniel's farm is transported to a cotton gin near Narrabri. First it's clean to remove any sticks or dirt. Then the lint is separated from the seed by fast-moving circular saws that grip the fibres and pull them through narrow slots. Before the gin was invented, this job used to be done by hand. It took one person a whole day to separate only half a kilogram of the lint from the cotton seed. But these modern gins can separate and bale about 230,000 kilograms of cotton in one day. Hey George, do you know why they call it a gin? It's short for N-GIN. Tootoo! Ha ha ha ha! The cotton engine, or gin, is a machine that separates the cotton fibres from the seeds, grades and squashes the cotton into bales before it's wrapped up ready to sell to manufacturers who turn it into all sorts of products. Oh! Cotton, cotton, cotton, it's used for many things from your shirt to your jeans there's just so many means from paper to your sheets you really can't beat that cotton. There's cotton in your shorts and cotton in your pads there's cotton in your jumpers and cotton in your hats there's cotton in your sheets and cotton in your hats there's cotton in your sheets and cotton in your jocks there's cotton in your shirts and cotton in your socks Oh! Cotton, cotton, cotton, it's used for many things from your shirt to your jeans there's just so many means from paper to your sheets you really can't beat that cotton Oh! Cotton, cotton, cotton, cotton, it's used for many things from your shirt to your jeans there's just so many means from paper to your sheets you really can't beat that cotton Well there you have it kids Cotton, the amazing natural fabric that's as woven into our lives as the threads in your favourite t-shirt, shirt or jeans The next time you go to grab a clean t-shirt or towel just remember it all started out with a seed that grew up in your hat and it's all about the cotton and it's all about the cotton and it's all about the cotton and it's all about the cotton and it's all about the cotton and cotton, cotton, cotton and cotton, cotton, it's used for many things from your shirt to your jeans there's just so many means from paper to your sheets you really can't beat that cotton Peg cotton, pick cotton, pick cotton peck cotton, pick cotton peck cotton, pick cotton P-Cutton, P-Cutton, P-Cutton.