How Does Our Animal Breeding Programme Work? | ABP Demonstration Farm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=czLxPUFOmhw
People & Blogs
 So how the program works? So ICBF in collaboration with leading AI companies basically identify the most suitable bulls in AI. Then we have participating dairy farmers who purchase semen from each of these bulls so might put between five and seven sires into each farm to take into effect on a herd effect. Then basically what happens is the dairy farmer must record the time of insemination, the date of birth of the animal to get gestation length, the calving difficulty and the sire. What we do here on this farm is we buy back a proportion of them calves. We don't buy all the calves back but by proportion so on this farm we would buy 20 calves per bull and that's a mix of steers and heifers. We then basically do vigorous recording throughout their life. So they're weighed every month, they're weighed when they come in here on farm day two, they're weighed at weaning, they're weighed going out to grass for the first season and they're weighed every month of their life thereafter. Then a proportion of the animals then we go a step further go to Tully to measure feed intake. So they go to Tully and Kildare and measure individual feed intake of each of the animals and also methane emissions of individual animals. These animals then when they go to finish in ABP Slaney we look at getting their carcass weight, their conformation, their fat, we get their kill out and we don't just stop there. We look then identifying taking two to three steaks per carcass to get meat eating quality data because certain sires can taste better, the prodigy can taste better than other sires. And then lastly to finish off is that we look at what is going to be the impact on environment of sire selection. So what's the carbon emissions for impact. So we're trying to get full circle and we want to identify a suitable bulls that create win-wins. So they're wins for the dairy herd with easy calve and short your station but their wins for the beef farmer that you know he'll get good carcass value, he'll hit his specs, he'll get them killed younger but then for a customer that they're a low carbon emission beef and that they taste, you know, they're the best taste possible. So that's we're trying to get the full circle in this program.