Heritage Breeds
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=czVK_jzFPZs
Education
 Music Heritage breeds are livestock animals that were popular decades or even centuries ago. Ricky Gibson reports there are good reasons why some farmers continue to raise these older breeds. Over the past 50 years, American farmers focused on raising only a few breeds of cattle, chickens, hogs and turkeys in order to be more efficient. But there's still a good market for older varieties among smaller producers who sell directly to consumers. Many of these farmers got into the business just to raise heritage breeds. Well, we looked into turkeys and the heritage breed itself seemed to be a very weather-tolerant bird to raise. They've done really well in the pen over there for years. The one thing about heritage going back in history is that they were domesticated, they were turkeys that were captured here and taken back to Spain, I believe. They were domesticated and brought back like a hundred years later and introduced back into the country they came from. It's not just poultry producers raising heritage breeds. Cattle and hog farmers report the different flavors of heritage breed animals helps them market their meat. We have the heritage breeds because they are good moms and they give very marbled meat. We think the marbled meat gives a nice touch to our forest-raised culture. So our idea is that they eat acorns like the pigs in Spain. And so they get this nutty, flavorful meat. Flavor in the meat is always coming from the marbled, from the fat. So we needed pigs with marbled meat. Flavor is just one of the factors that bring customers to these growers. Virginia Tech swine professor Mark Estian says during his career, he's seen more farmers get into the business. The idea behind raising the heritage breeds in these niche market production systems is that they are focused on consumers that are willing to pay a premium for pork that comes from pigs that are raised in less intensive facilities that are local. The one advantage that some of the heritage breeds have is their carcasses actually are fatter than what we typically have from the commodity pork type operations. And, you know, that fat will make the eating experience better. The pork chop tends to be juicier. And that's why a lot of people prefer that type of pork. Estian has also conducted research trials with heritage breed pigs, checking if some of their genetic traits would improve hogs and commercial swine operations. It was very interesting. The Tamworth actually we used, they grew at a rate that was not too dissimilar from the breeds that are being used in large scale operations now. But, you know, the bottom line was like I mentioned previously, the carcasses were fatter, more back fat on them. But overall, it was, you know, a very good set of carcasses. In addition to different tasting meat products, scientists and farmers want to keep the genetics of heritage breed livestock available in case those genes are needed for future purposes. Estian notes one group of heritage hogs have been isolated on an island off the coast of Georgia since the 1500s and have developed a tolerance for high temperatures. There is an organization in North Carolina called the Livestock Conservancy. And their goal is to preserve the genetics of a lot of breeds that we call heritage breeds that not only pigs, but cattle and sheep, poultry. These breeds had a very important place in United States agriculture at one time, but for various reasons kind of fell by the wayside. But every breed has certain genetics that at some point in the future could be very important to incorporate into the, you know, the genetics that are being used to produce food. Heritage breeds thrive in outdoor environments. Some producers count on that and incorporate it into their farming operations. Bruins has more than 100 hogs and a thriving business selling them direct to consumers. These pigs are our landscapers. You don't need to burn fuel on it. You don't distract anything. They have a lot of space. So they do it in a very soft, natural, sustainable way. And this is why we have them. We don't want to go into the landscape with a bulldozer. We want to do it in a soft, sustainable, slow motion. So they fertilize and they accelerate the clearing. So they are going for the roots. And this gives also for the pigs a nice flavor. So it works for both. Roseanne Rose-Rosenfeld raises chickens, ducks, sheep, in addition to turkeys. It's a business they enjoy. We enjoy it. Sure, you know, as farmers for a market, but then also the turkeys are fun. I mean, as you were filming them a while ago, they're just chattering and cackling and they'll just, they're just a precarious animal and they'll, they just entertain you. Roseanne Rose- Our pride is our customer gets always very fresh meat. We can, we don't want to have anything in the freezer what we cannot sell. Then we take a break. But so far we, we never had this problem. We were always sold out before the next pigs are coming. Roseanne Rose- The fact that smaller producers can make money raising heritage breeds just shows how valuable it is to have a variety of meat supplies and the strength of Virginia's farm economy. Roseanne Rose- It's a win-win having the heritage breed pigs being produced on these niche market farms because again, they are catering to a certain segment of the consumer population. It's a industry that is being supported by the large scale hog operations. They're coexisting in our state. Roseanne Rose- I'm Ricky Gibson reporting. Roseanne Rose-