$2200 Hay Mower Takes On The World!!! New Holland 488 Haybine (Part 1 of 3)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=czyT0MW0yOw
People & Blogs
 It is currently day one of attempting to make hay with my 488 New Holland Haybine. You can see we got a lot of chest high or taller grass out here, which is good. The bad news is, here let me show you guys this. We've made it approximately six feet inside this field before suffering our first major machine stopping breakdown. You can see the gate swings right through here, and the machine is currently parked right there. The problem is that I was attempting to get this machine into its field-ready operating position, and somehow the end of the PTO shaft has slipped out of the remainder of the PTO shaft. The only issue with this is that, as you can see, this end is substantially longer than the PTO shaft, so physically this isn't even possible, yet somehow it's happened anyway. Alright, I took the entire driveline off this thing. This whole pivot section is just a pin that goes through the tongue, so it's actually really easy. It's, you know, you just pull the pin out, and then this entire thing lifts out. I was able to do that. Get this realigned. And, um... I... I don't even know what to say. It's like I always say, just because it's impossible, doesn't mean that it is. But, you know, we have literally inches of shaft inside this other shaft. It comes down to, like, here. So let's hope it doesn't just somehow pop out. Again. Let's go in. You Go super slow and just test this out a little. I've never actually cut with one of these before, which is an experience I'm exceedingly grateful for. And, um, ah. Son of a gun, it's doing it. There's three miles an hour through a grass that's almost as tall as I am. Pretty content with that. Woohoo! Oh, that makes everything better right there. Alright, well this is gonna be pretty enjoyable up to and including the moment of our next catastrophic breakdown. Oh, I like this. Look at this. Well, not really. I tolerate this because it was $2,200. Oh boy. Shiggity diggity. What happened there? It's just a giant bolt spot in that grass. Oh, we can go a lot faster than this. Someone told me these things are super slow. But here's four and a half miles an hour. And it's, uh, chugging it really long. Goodness gracious, man. Uh, this thing was a pain to get going. Like I said, I bought it for $2,200. Kind of got screwed on the thing because I was an idiot and I'd never been around one of these things before. So when I got it, there's a million and 57 different things that were wrong with it and needed to be, uh, jacked with. But, uh, I think it's a little bit better. I think it's a little bit better. I think it's a little bit better. I think it's a little bit better. I think it's a little bit better. I think it's a little bit better. But like I said, I bought it for $2,200. Kind of got screwed on the thing because I was an idiot and I'd never been around one of these things before. So when I got it, there's a million and 57 different things that were wrong with it and needed to be, uh, jacked with. But, uh, yeah. So mechanic Steve came out. He helped me with a bunch of stuff. I put all new chains on it. Mechanic Steve changed out a couple of the major bearings I helped, but that was pretty much his operation. He did a wonderful job. He fixed a bunch of random stuff on it. That's one of mechanics Steve's greatest strengths. You know a lot of mechanics They'll be like oh, I don't know man. I never worked on one of those before But uh, yeah, you know I mastered everything and he's not he's just like hey man I've never worked on one of these things, but yeah, I'll take a stab at it It's just a bearing right what's the worst that could happen and And he just persists through it and gets it done and then that bearing is probably the only thing on this piece of junk that works, right? Oh I'm gonna raise this up just a little bit and you know what i'm gonna adjust that windrow because Most of this field is it a super tall grass like Don't smell smoke yet. Okay, that's a good sign most of this property isn't super tall grass And so we don't need the uh thingamajigger spread out quite so far. Oh look at this It works this piece of junk is actually functional Oh Yes Don't break don't break don't break don't break You know the way used farm equipment goes in my experience is it either blows up pretty much immediately And uh, and you're just totally up a creek without a paddle or else it only blows up in smaller parts And you can kind of limp it by and it's generally fine with a bunch of maintenance Hopefully that's that because lord knows mechanic steve and I have spent between us probably two solid Weeks of one man working days on it and this thing's been fabric cobbled on you can see like this plate somebody put here I mean as far as fabric cobbling goes, it's actually pretty good, especially by farmer standards But uh, yeah, also I stuck a giant ammo can on the on my tractor. So I have a proper toolbox I took the old toolbox stuck it on this thing. So we got some extra knives and uh, some random parts in there great. Okay, um Can't really do this I'll be fine on there until it pops off The way this works is this and this over here control uh, what's basically a baffle on the inside of the machine And what we need to do is drop that or no, we need to raise the baffle Come on Uh, we need to raise the baffle Yeah So that it will Some of god, man. I don't friggin know. Where's the baffle now. This is pretty much maximum width The baffle is pretty far down. Okay, we will raise the baffle and that will funnel the hay through The uh tapered part of the back of this machine Why won't this go through the freaking holes? Yeah, maybe that's why it's set where it is because it doesn't go in any of the rest of these Maybe I have to do it in steps Okay, uh, it's even ish I think uh, I think it's gonna be a bit of a lopsided windrow, but everything on this thing is lopsided here I'll show you the way this works. It's got a row of knives in the front of it and it shoves the hay through those uh, conditioner rolls They're basically like spinning phone poles And it's not so important on leafy stuff like this coastal mix grass here But on anything with a stem It smashes the stem open and it dries faster So yeah, and by raising that baffle the hay comes back further off of these funnel bits and it throws it into a windrow Hopefully, all right Oh, shiggity diggity Oh, oh, there's a hole there Glad I didn't break a knee there. Thank you, jesus. All right, uh Stick that in there And we'll be good until the next catastrophic breakdown Oh boy, am I anxious You know, I was actually perfectly content farming with my little six foot two inch uh drum mower from eastern europe because the quality Okay, screw it six gear because the quality on it is very high But the problem is i'm doing a bunch of city and grass. Oh, I feel real nice. I'm doing a bunch of city and grass Which uh requires? The conditioning effect. So I had to get something with a conditioner And uh, you know, this is my first year farming full-time So I don't I don't have 26 grand to go out buy a new crone. Yes, I priced them out and yes, that's what I would buy and uh So basically I got this this ancient monstrosity And uh, yeah, just gonna try to make it work Seems Seems pretty good This is a nine foot cut so still coming up from that six foot I know most people joke about how going back to a haybine would be the worst thing ever, but i'm still getting going So this is a 50 percent wider cut than what i'm used to and I you know, I hope it works To be honest, I could swing the crone, but I don't want to because i'm trying to save my money and buy some land And uh, yeah Oh, I missed the spot dang it Man, it's getting it done I went through and adjusted all the knives on this thing to the best of my ability as well. I got multiple manuals for it All right, I swung the tongue into the third hole on that bar I guess I should have stopped at the first because I have to run over my previous windrow a little bit Uh dang it i keep missing spots It's all right, it's my first time running this thing All right, so I've now successfully mowed a good few acres with this machine And some begun man, it actually works pretty stinking well. There are a couple problems, but look at this It's cutting just above the surface of the ground. In fact, it kind of bottomed out there a little bit. I can fine tune that suspension a little bit But look at that Everything's been run through pretty well. Uh, the main problems that I have noticed Are and I don't know how I missed this before now, but these things are supposed to keep that tensioner tight Which keeps those rollers the the upper roller and the bottom roller close together so the grass goes through them. Well, there's a slot for this Right there the problem is these things are broken so they don't actually stay in place and the other issue is Something is hanging up right there and it has caused this to plug up Uh, but i'm pretty sure I know what that is And if i'm right, it's a specialty type of knife which I even have a replacement for at home that I haven't had time to put on this thing What the heck is that? What is that? Okay, this could be bad This could be bad Gotta reach inside this thing so I shut the tractor off Did we pick something up? I hope that's not a part of the miller Glad it's not gone through the conditioner rolls yet Uh-oh what on earth Oh my goodness that has stabbed through this What even is that? I'm not going under this but I am going to look That's some type of deal for whatever that thing is Uh-oh That's just straight up stabbed through the machine What on earth is it? I don't even know what that is for That is a fist sized chunk bigger than a fist like a fist and a half sized chunk of metal Which has collapsed the suspension on this machine and launched itself through part of it I don't even understand what that is or how it works In the next minutes 5 wheel Um Yeah, that's not good Good.