How to Start a Farm with No USDA Loan
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D0Wp0majgQ0
People & Blogs
 What's up y'all? Welcome to the channel. It's your girl Monica at OutTheMudFarm and I'm doing this video because I've been hearing a lot of questions being asked about how to go about getting a loan or a grant to start your farm and I'm just here to tell you that you do not need to do all of that. First and foremost, it's going to take three years before the USDA will lend to you. Three years of you showing to them via a Schedule F that you are farming, right? And a Schedule F is a form that you fill out when you're filing your personal taxes. So here's the thing. You can get started right now. You just have to do two. There's two things that have to happen. You have to think of a farm in a different way than you've ever thought about it before. You can't think of a farm in terms of acreage, animal, husbandry. You can't just think of a farm in those two categories. If I don't have 10 acres or if I don't have a, you know, herd of cattle and, you know, whatever, that not necessarily is what a farm is. The USDA is making it so plain and so clear and so easy to everybody, but we are just overcomplicating the shit. Okay. Go to the USDA's website. The USDA says a farm is any place that could or should produce a thousand dollars worth of agricultural products in a given year. Any place. So what does that look like? That looks like you making natural chemical free soaps. Soaps. I don't know if soaps can be chemical free, but you get my point. Natural soaps in your home. That could be done out of a kitchen. You don't need five acres for that. You can set up an Etsy shop. Sell those soaps, right? Those of you who do plant cuttings. Some of y'all are making good money with plant cuttings. That's an agricultural product, right? I know this chick on Instagram does these dope plant macrame rope hangers. That's agricultural. These are all farms, folks. Okay. According to the USDA, I'm not making this up and you can't be mad at it. For those of you who got the 50 acres and the 80 acres and all these acres, that's great. But when you go to the agricultural census, something that's very interesting. When it comes to the actual money getting made, y'all see you had to get that Tennessee tough sign in there. You know I had to represent. Anyway, when it comes to the money actually being made and farming right now, ain't no whole lot of people making a whole lot of money. That's according to the census to the 2017, I think it was, census that I saw. So acres does not necessarily equate into dollars of revenue. You can get on YouTube now yourself and look at some of these folks in New York in a one bedroom apartment making $4,000 a week selling microgreens. Okay. So the thing you have to do, stop trying to run to the USDA to get the loan. They're not going to give it to you anyway. You're going to have to have three years of experience in farming to get it anyway. I don't care what course you take. I don't care who you talk to. When you send your file, that's an underwriting guideline. And my background is in lending. I have a degree in business with a concentration in finance. I spent the first half of my career in what we call subprime lending. Then I went to nonprofit lending. Here's one thing about the government. When they get ready to give you some money is what they're going to do. And they're going to underwrite the hell out of you. And that's what that three-year requirement is for. Okay. You're not going to change that. You're not going to go from working at Amazon and now you want to get a farm. So you want to get a $250,000 loan to get some land. Where are they doing that at? So don't worry about that yet. Okay. And here's my thing about the grants. They're a time suck. Okay. A time suck. Right. You want to get grants and use grants to develop your infrastructure and capital expenditures and stuff like that after you've gotten your business established. But make no mistake. If you're getting into farming, you need to come into it from a point of view of you are trying to start a business. If you're just trying to grow for your family, that's a beautiful thing. But if you're trying to get into farming and you're wanting to go to the USDA, you better go at it from a point of view of developing a business. Because the USDA, whatever money they give you on a loan, they're going to want back. So you're going to have to have cash flow. And cash flow comes from business. And business comes from solving people's problems. Okay. So this is the situation. Let go of the old thought process of what you thought a farm was. Develop a new one. Figure out what you can do with the resources you have now. Right. And, you know, I'm a big, like, student of Dr. Booker T. Watley. I encourage everybody that I talk to about farming to go ahead and get his book. You know, it's on Amazon. It's like $100 and something now. I got mine two and a half years ago for 20-something on Amazon. You can't get it for 20-something now. Dr. Booker T. Watley basically teaches a small farmer that, look, forget about, he did not have, he did not mince his words when it came to farm services and USDA. He told it like it was, okay, and the whole big ag and all of that, right? So what he says you need to do as a small farmer is to, and that, just use that definition however you want to use it. It doesn't necessarily mean 25 acres like in the title of his book. It could just mean you're doing it out of your kitchen, right? Bottom line is this. If you're a small farmer, you need to have 10 cash crops. 10, right? So this first cash crop that you're looking at, my first cash crop is rabbit fertilizer. I sold it at the farmer's market. I sell it online, and I sell it at the local cooperative, okay? I do not have any rabbits, okay? So here's, that's an example, right? I just happen to be able to make that work for myself. You need to find something agricultural that you can make work for yourself with the resources that you already got. It's not about getting loans, folks, okay? Debt is the absolute worst way to start most businesses most of the time. It's not a bad idea sometimes, but it's not a good idea in farming, okay? It's not a good idea in farming because cash flow has to be determined and established from your crop first before you go borrow money. And you have to have time to figure out what that is because you don't want these folks to take care of shit because that's what they're going to do, okay? So stay away from, how do I get a farm loan to get my this, this, this, this? You don't need it. Next time you see somebody ask that question, tell them you don't need a loan. Tell them to find something. Tag them in this video. Tell them to find something that they can. Remind them of what the definition of a farm is according to the USDA. Let's start with that, okay? Any place that could or should produce $1,000 worth of agricultural products in a given year is a farm, my friend, okay? So go get you some business in that space. Is it soil? Is it plant cuttings? Is it soil? Is it compost materials that others can use and you can sell and bag up? You better get you a Uline account. You better get you a Uline account and start your net 30 with them on your supplies, okay? I could tell you all about it, but I can show you about it better. But look, this is the thing. We've got to go ahead and move our feet now. Stop putting things in front of you that are going to cause you to have to wait. Well, if I can't get a loan for three years, that means I'm going to have to wait to start my... No, your community needs you now. People need you now. This shit out here that's happening in this world right now is real. The only people that's going to help are people who are going to move their feet in the agricultural space now. We know what's going to happen, okay? So, the thing about it is, is you can't get down the road and wish you had done it later when it comes to farming. Because if you didn't plant any seeds in the spring, you're not going to get any harvest in the fall. Okay? So, right now, you have to be... If you're planning on monetizing and being a part of the solution when it comes to agriculture and feeding people, right? Whatever your reason for it is, it might just be your people you're trying to feed. Because you see the shit is horrible in the grocery stores or what's going on with the supply chain and all of this stuff, right? That nobody can control. One thing you can control is growing your own food. Now, whether that just be for you and your family or is on a business type situation. I think everybody should do it on a business type situation. I honestly do. I honestly do because what we do is we buy a house. And y'all stay with me real quick because I'm a real estate broker. So, it all ties in together. We buy a house thinking that that is the biggest investment that we've ever made. When in fact, it's the biggest liability that we've ever made. What I propose and have tried to have been proposed for years is that once you buy the house, okay, yeah, it's a liability. You can convert it into an asset. And you can do that by renting out a room or an asset is something that brings you money, right? So, right now, when you buy your house the traditional way, you pay a mortgage. If you didn't pay all cash, you're paying somebody every single month for the right to be in that house, right? Well, that's a liability. Liabilities take your money. Okay, agriculture is the easiest way to turn your house from a liability into an asset. You see what I'm saying? You can in a shed or in a spare room or in a this or in a that. I've got that shed over there that's getting ready to get put to work, okay? I got some stuff back there that's getting ready to get put to work. Why? Because I'm trying to turn this joker into an asset because it's a liability right now, okay? Agriculture is going to, my back apartment that I got back there, it's now a licensed green house. You think I'm not going to grow some microgreens? And they're selling them what? They're making $2,000, $3,000 a week in New York. How come I can't, right? You don't have, that's not on any land. That's not even on the five acres, okay? So, we have to rethink what a farm is. It's not what, pay attention to what the USDA says. They're saying it for a reason. They're putting it out in plain and black and white. And agriculture is the only space that you can get in and in the shortest time period possible have access to billions of dollars in capital. Billions with a B, okay? Billions with a B, right? There is no other industry, not even real estate, that you can get in and get access to that kind of capital in two to three years. But you've got to get your two to three year time clock ticking. And you trying to get a loan that you ain't going to get. So, you spent a year on that, talking to people on Facebook about that. And then, so a year done went by. And you could have been, had a year under some type of an agricultural product. Be that soap, be that plant cuttings, be that dirt, be that compost, be that, you know, worm castings. Okay? Outside the box, all right? Okay.