Filling Our Birdies Raised Garden Bed + Planting a Honeyberry Bush | Easy Backyard Gardening Tips
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d7Xq-F_crUo
Entertainment
 H v e k o o e Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. within your soil or in your roots or anything like that. This was probably the funnest part for me in all of this because if you notice I'm really not the one that does the gardening in our videos. I am usually behind the camera filming but because Hector is injured right now with his arm I had to let him film while I do the the bed so but right now we're just giving it a very good mix and actually this was pretty heavy. It doesn't look like it but that mushroom compost was very very heavy so trying to get that from the bottom up to the top and mixing everything in was a little challenging but it was very satisfying, very fun. So we did one five gallon bucket of the mushroom compost then we did one five gallon bucket of the peat moss and one five gallon bucket of the vermiculite and we did that three times to fill this bed. So I didn't show everything like us doing it all three times because it became pretty redundant but so yeah it took a five gallon bucket of each three times to fill this bed. So I wanted to elaborate a little bit more. So yes we did a five gallon bucket of each the mushroom compost peat moss and vermiculite and we did that three times to fill the bed. So this bed is pretty large. It's a birdies raised bed. We got it from Epic Gardening and it is 22 and a half inches wide by five feet four inches long and it's 15 inches high. So what Hector did was at the end of the season last season he filled it up halfway with his leftover corn husks, some mulch, and then he also added in a 10 pound coconut wire pith to kind of start creating the base of this bed. So had he not filled it up halfway with those things we probably would have actually needed to do this maybe two more times adding in the five gallon bucket of each the compost of peat moss and vermiculite. So if you are interested in getting one of these raised beds or many of these raised beds I will put the link down in the description. We got it from epicgardening.com. We are not sponsored but we are looking for a sponsor but we are not sponsored but we highly recommend these. It is 100% food safe. It's made from aluzinc steel. It contains USDA approved paint so you don't have to worry about any harsh chemicals or anything like that getting into your gardening especially if your focus is for organic gardening. So I will put the link down in the description. I don't know that they still have the one with our exact dimensions available. Last time that we checked for the link we didn't see it there so if they don't have this exact one available what I'll do is I'll link the one that is closest to it so that'll be down in the description for you. So now I'm adding in our fertilizer mix and topping it off with that. We did 10 cups of worm castings, 2 3rds of a cup of bone meal, 2 3rds of a cup of green sand, and a half a cup of bat guano as well as 2 3rds of a cup of kelp meal, 2 cups of azomite, and 6 to 7 cups of promix which is a mycorrhizal fungi soil. So we did all of that in a 5 gallon bucket, mixed it up really well, and what I'm going to do is just top it off and kind of get it into that top layer of the soil media that we created in the bed. So if you can see here I'm just kind of sprinkling it in and getting it just down into that first layer. And then when we water that'll all slowly trickle down and be a slow release fertilizer as we continue to water. Of course we'll need to add fertilizer as we go through the season but to get it started you're okay with just adding it in on top and getting it into that top layer. So this is a borealis honeyberry bush. It's good for zones 3 to 8 and it is hardy up to negative 40. So definitely perfect for us. We're in 3b, 4a, and we have ridiculously cold winters so that root system will survive. Now we're going to add in some mycos mycorrhizal inoculant which is an organic root enhancer. So we put this on at the very bottom of it and it's just feeding the roots. It's just making sure that the roots have optimal growth and health. So you'll want to sprinkle that on and massage it in before you put it into its spot. It's home in your garden bed. So you need two different berry bushes to pollinate each other. So this one is the berry blue honeyberry bush. It's good for zones 2 to 8 and it is also hardy up to negative 40. So again that root system will survive the cold winter. And I'm going to repeat the same steps that I did with the other honeyberry, the borealis. I'm just going to add on that mycos mycorrhizal inoculant to the roots to help that root growth. And we spaced these bushes 2 and a half feet away from each other but 18 inches away from the edge of the bed. So on the outside of the bush on the edge there they came in 18 inches but then we made sure they were 2 and a half feet apart from each other. And that's just to give them enough space for growth and whatnot. So they'll still be able to pollinate but they'll still be able to grow and have their own space. Now that the bed is set I'm just going to give it a really nice watering to get everything settled and ready to go. So thank you guys so much for watching. I really hope you enjoyed today's video. If you did please be sure to give this video a thumbs up, subscribe to our channel if you haven't already, and turn on your notification bell so that you never miss an upload from us. And we both just want to say thank you so much for all the love you guys have given us on these last couple videos that we did, especially our patio video. And we are now at 136 subscribers so slowly but surely we are growing. So thank you so much and we will see you in our next video. Bye! Bye! mañana todos al