Management Strategies for Poor Quality Hay
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dBtCzmM9apU
People & Blogs
 Well good evening everybody. I hope everyone can hear me. My name is Jacob Seegers. I am Beef Cattle Specialist for the University of Georgia here in Tifton. Coming to you from our campus down here. I hope everyone's warm. This is kind of a new format for us, so this is this is a little bit of trial and error here tonight. You're going to hear some binging as we start the program. That's just other folks joining us if they're a few minutes late. I don't think there's any way to keep that chime from happening. First and foremost, I see a few folks I know on here. I know Charlesy Godowns from GCA is on here. I know that Sarah Watridge is on here. I see those names that I know. Can you guys let me know if you can hear me well, make sure everything's working from the audio end. Can you guys hear me? I can hear you just fine, Jacob. Perfect. Thank you so much. Hopefully everybody else can. What I have done right now in terms of controls, I've muted pretty much everybody when they come into the room. You have the ability, if you have a question or anything like that, to go in and click on that microphone icon in your Zoom screen. That will unmute your microphone if you want to ask the question verbally. If you don't, you can use the chat feature, which is over, if you have your little control bar above your Zoom window, you click over on the more button. It's got the three dots above it. Click down to chat. That is going to be really important at the end of this thing because I have dropped a link in there I would like for each of you to go to. When we get done, we, for extension, need to collect data on all these things and need to get an idea of what you guys enjoy, what you want to see in the future, things like that. I've put together a real short, it's a three-question survey. It will take you less than a minute to do it just to help us gather some information to take back to our higher-ups and say we're using our time wisely here tonight. I want to turn things over for just a few minutes to Charlesy. For those of you who don't know what the Young Cattlemen's Council is, it's an organization within GCA that typically works to educate and engage members in that 18 to 40 age range. That was one of the reasons we felt like maybe the webinar situation might work a little better. A lot of folks in that age group are young parents and it's hard to get out and go to a meeting at night. So we're going to try this feature if this works well. Hopefully be able to do it a couple of three times a year maybe. I also want to introduce a new concept to you. If you're going to be here for all three webinars this week, this is hopefully the first of several programs that we're going to start doing where we're going to collaborate a little bit with Kansas State University. I don't know if you've seen the whole program but the last webinar in this series will happen the third Thursday of December. Dr. Dan from K-State will be on then. He's going to discuss realizing some values from feeder calves, added value feeder calves. We talk a lot about adding value to them. We don't always talk a lot about how to cash in on that added value. So that's what he's going to bring to us then. Next week, this same bat time, same bat channel, Dr. Francis Flewharty, our new department head and 30-year veteran of feedlot nutrition extension at Ohio State University, is going to come on and talk about farm finished beef. So we're certainly looking forward to that. Hope you come back for that one as well. So with that, Charli, I'm going to turn it over and let you give a quick GCA welcome and kind of fill everybody on what's going on on y'all's evening and I'll jump right in and we'll get this thing done. Good deal. So first, can you hear me? I can hear you fine. Okay, great. So thanks, Jacob, and thank you for everybody that's logged on. I just am so grateful for this experience and for Dr. Seeger's taking the initiative to put this together. Like Dr. Seeger said, I'm Charlsey Godowns. I work with Georgia Cattlemen's Association as the Director of Association Services. I'm also over our junior program and of course our Young Cattlemen's Council. So just a plug for everybody that's tuned in. I appreciate you taking the initiative and being part of this webinar series and I hope that you continue to do so. It is because of progressive producers like yourselves and continuing to learn more and wanting to know more about the industry and making sure that you do the best that you can do on your operations. That keeps us moving forward as a cattle industry in Georgia and I'm so grateful. We would definitely be remiss if we didn't thank Dr. Seeger's for all of the work that he has done to put this together for us and all the, you know, the insight that he took to also include the Young Cattlemen's Council and Georgia Cattlemen's Association. So we totally appreciate that. Just a little plug in for Georgia Cattlemen's because that is the biggest part of my job is if you're not a member, really consider it. You can get with me, you can get with anybody in the office and we can hook you up. But just know that that your $50 a year goes towards your magazine. But more than that, you have somebody that's working for you every day in Atlanta and Washington, D.C. to work on issues policy and legislatively to make sure that we can continue to do what we do as cattle producers on our operations without, you know, oversight from entities that don't necessarily belong on the farm. So again, if I can be of any assistance to anybody, please reach out to me or anybody in the office and we'd be glad to work with you. And again, just on behalf of the Young Cattlemen's Council and Georgia Cattlemen's Association, thank you so much everybody for tuning in. Awesome. Thank you, Charles, for that update. Hopefully everybody can hear me well. Again, if you can't, please drop a message into the chat box there or you can unmute your microphone. It sounds like mine is coming through okay, so I should be able to hear you. What I wanted to hit on here in week one of our seminar series, webinar series, was dealing with kind of a problem that's already at hand. The other two talks in the series are going to kind of focus on some more generalized topics for you to plan down the road. This is a little more pertinent to today. I'm sure most of you are aware I've done a lot of county meetings with our agents throughout the state in the last few months and had a lot of phone calls regarding hay quality in Georgia this year. We're not in the same situation that we saw back in the 2013-2014 timeframe where we were looking at universally poor quality hay across the state. We are, however, in a situation where our lab in Athens is telling us that we're seeing a lot more variation this year in terms of our forage quality than we've seen in many years past. So there's some good hay out there. There's also some really poor quality hay out there. So that's kind of what I want to focus on is how do we deal with that. As most of you can can guess the moral of the story is you're going to have to test it to know where you are. But then I want to talk a little bit about how to read and evaluate those tests that you get back. And maybe kind of how to put a grade on those. That's kind of what I've done here is I've taken four of these that I had a county agent here in the state send me four samples from his county. And we kind of walked through and put a letter grade on each of those and kind of show you what things are important to look at there. And then we'll get in and talk a little bit more about general production systems and what can we do to supplement those forages that we need to do that with. And finally we'll try to offer you a little bit of guidance in terms of some supplements that will work for you that seem to be readily available to most of our producers here in the state. So I'm going to go ahead and flip over to my next slide here assuming everything is going to work. And this is just kind of a lead-in discussion but I want you to think about where a lot of our cows are in Georgia this time of year. Most of our producers here in South Georgia are on a late winter early spring type calving season. We also have some that are in the in a summer or a fall calving season in different parts of the state. But think about the transition these cows are having to make in the time of year that they're having to make. A late gestation cow moving into lactation that represents the largest shift in nutrient requirements in that cow's adult life. Okay now we're not talking necessarily about developing heifers here we're not talking about second calf heifers that are still growing. I'm just talking about your average mature cow. Her late gestation nutrient requirements are about 18 percent or about eight percent in terms of crude protein about 53 percent in terms of TDN. Okay and energy. As she moves into lactation and starts really dropping milk for that calf after it's born she jumps up to about 12 percent crude protein and to about 60 percent TDN. That's a substantial increase. Okay and if we don't meet that need with nutrition then she is going to meet it with her body reserves that's going to cause her body condition to drop off and it's going to cause us some re-breeding problems when we get into that breeding season. That being said our nutritional strategy is not going to change. Okay we're going to build it around our forage that's always going to be our most economical place to start and when we talk about forage you know we talk often about and I let Dennis and Jennifer and a lot of the forage folks in our in our extension team talk about the fertility and the production aspect and forage yield and they also do a great job talking about quality but for me um what where the rubber meets the road in your nutritional system is forage quality. Okay and I think forage quality is probably one of the things that is most talked about and least understood in all of cow-calf nutrition. So that being the case I'm going to define it for you here. For me as a nutritionist and and for you as a producer when you think quality you need to think about digestibility. You need to think about an animal's ability to extract nutrients from that diet and use it for a productive purpose. Okay that's not always what we think when we think quality. You know if we're in the business of selling hay we think a lot about how it looks how it smells all kinds of things like that. I give my farm manager down here at Tifton at the bull station a hard time because he's one of those guys that likes to walk out there every time we get a load in and smell of it and look at what color it is and then he wants to come and tell me he doesn't think it's the same protein content that the analysis said it was. And I tell him that's sorcery. Okay nobody's got a crude protein detector in their nose. You can tell if there's a mold in hay you can tell if it's wet then baled up too wet if there's problems that way. But to look at a bale of hay and tell me what its crude protein content is or what its energy value is there's not many people out there that are that good. So the moral of the story is test those cuttings and know where your cuttings are keep them separate. Okay next thing I want to hit on here is when we do get into a conversation about supplements there's a lot of cheap feed out there okay but there's no such thing as a free lunch. So think about how you're going to invest those supplementation dollars. I get a lot of calls every year about different options that we have that are specific to the state whether it's peanut holes or even in the summertime cold fruits and vegetables things like that. We can find a place for those things but you need to work with your county agent work with a nutritionist and make sure that you get a supplement put together that's actually going to do something rather than just spending your money on something that's not going to help. Okay so what I have on this next slide is a feed and forage report from our lab there in Athens. Now I am not advertising our lab necessarily we don't get a dime off of that if you want to use it we'd love for you to call your county agent and send those samples in for you. But I care more that you get your samples tested so whether you use Waters Lab, Columbia Valley, Dairy One, any of those guys that's fine. I want to talk a little bit more about the anatomy of one of these reports when you get it back and the numbers that I would tell you to look at. Okay and the first one up there I'm sure everybody has probably heard of at some point. Number one, RFQ. If you've heard Dr. Hancock give any of his talks, Dr. Tucker, any of those guys or probably me, at some point you've heard us talk about relative forage quality. That's what RFQ stands for. Okay and it is a really nice metric for comparing different cuttings. Okay comparing forage types. When you're looking at comparative measures that's a great number. It's standardized based on full bloom alfalfa and that's approximately equal to a 100 on an RFQ scale. So the higher the number, the higher the quality. It does have a few limitations when we start talking about supplementation strategy because RFQ doesn't tell me anything about nutrient breakdown. So if you call your county agent and say you've got a cutting of hay and the RFQ is 78. That's pretty bad. I'll be honest with you. That's pretty low. What do I need to do to supplement? He's going to call me and I'm going to say, well what's the protein? What's the energy? Where are my nutrient values? I can't formulate a supplement based on RFQ. So it's a great comparative measure but we do still need a little bit more information. The two biggest pieces of information I'm going to need for a cow-calf system here in the state are number two and number three there. TDN, total digestible nutrients, is a measure of energy. It works well in beef production systems. There are other energy systems out there that are a little more complex and hard to understand. We're not going to get into those tonight. But again, the same ideas apply. The larger the percentage, the higher the energy value, the more digestible that energy is in that diet and the more of that nutrient requirement it's going to fill. Crude protein is the one that everybody is pretty familiar with. That tends to be everybody's go-to metric when they decide what forage quality is going to be. That's what they call me and they say, oh well I got a cutting that's 12% crude protein or it's 14% crude protein. That's the number everybody associates with quality. It's certainly a number we want to watch for, but it's not one that I would tell you is the sole predictor. Especially here in the south where we deal with a lot of warm season perennial forages. Those tend to hold their crude protein value a little better than some of the more cool season grasses, some of the small grains that we see in certain parts of the world. Those plants get a lot more protein deficient than we see in our Bermudas and our Bahia grasses. What you'll see a lot of times in Georgia if I get called in and asked to look at some hay samples, cattle are losing weight, it's very rarely a protein deficiency that I run across. Much, much more common to see an energy problem, the energy deficiency. That's where we tend to lose a lot of our forage value as we either get crops to mature or we have post-harvest damage to those hay crops. Number four there, the yellow box down on the far left hand side, those are what I'm going to call your fiber metrics and this may be a little more than some of you want to know. Neutral detergent fiber, acid detergent fiber, and lignin tell us about the quality of the fiber in your forage sample. Why do we care about that? Well, beef cattle, dairy cattle, anything with a rumen essentially, can use fiber as an energy source. They can grow off of it. Now, my doctor tells me sometimes when I go that I need to eat more fiber. It is not because he wants me to gain weight. It's actually the opposite. So for monogastrics, for humans, for dogs, for cats, for pigs, we can't do that. We don't have the necessary biochemistry to break down fiber and gain weight from it. It doesn't mean it's not good for us. It keeps our colon healthy. It does a lot of things like that. But in the case of these grazing animals, ruminants specifically, those microscopic organisms in their rumen can break that fiber down. Now, these numbers tell us a little bit about the quality of it. We're not going to get too scientific with it. All I really will tell you is that neutral detergent fiber tells you a lot about the bulkiness of a fiber. I tend to think about peanut holes. When I think about neutral detergent fiber, they tend to have a very high neutral detergent fiber. They're bulky, tend to make a pretty good filler. Whereas acid detergent fiber tells us a little more about the quality and the digestibility of that fiber. I think more about soy hulls there. Soy hulls have a very high acid detergent fiber, or a lower neutral detergent fiber than what we'll see in peanut holes. Lignin is the third number that you see there. Lignin is very much an anti-digestibility factor in forages. As plants age, the lignin content is going to increase. Lignin is there basically to reinforce that plant's structure. We talk a lot about if you've ever laid concrete slabs, lignin acts a lot like rebar. It's there to stabilize those things. As that plant grows and needs to put more of its energy and metabolism toward forming a seed head and the reproductive phase of its life, the stem and the leaves get more and more lignified so that they're more stable. That number is one that we want to pay attention to when we're concerned that we may have harvested a crop too late. I would tell you based on the samples that I see coming out of our lab here, I don't get overly concerned until that number gets in the six and a half up above seven range. That's where I start to worry a little bit there. The fifth thing I have on this sheet for you to look at are your nitrates. Nitrates are probably not something a lot of you have seen issues with this year because we've had been pretty sufficient on moisture, but in years where we do have drought during the summertime or in some cases when your fertility plan has maybe gotten a little off schedule and you're putting too much nitrogen out or putting it out too close to the time that you're cutting hay, you can see those nitrates creep up. Nitrates can be toxic to cattle. We typically say anywhere above 4,500 to 5,000 parts per million is where we start to get concerned. I've seen them a lot higher than that in Georgia and under the right circumstances. The other thing I would tell you if you don't test your hay for nitrates, take a look at that crude protein number because nitrates are one of those things the way we test for crude protein is to test for nitrogen and then we do some math that gives us the protein number. Now that's an old system it's less exact than some of the other ways that we can measure protein but it's cheap and it works well enough to formulate diets based off of it. The drawback to that is when you have a compound like a nitrate that reads as nitrogen in that analyzer it will falsely inflate your crude protein. So I tell folks you know if you get one of those Bermuda grass samples back and it says it's 19 to 25 percent crude protein you better check those nitrates okay because that's pretty uncommonly high for those types of grasses. Okay I've harped enough on that so what I want to go through here now is look at three or four samples and kind of talk through them and so we can decide good hay, bad hay, pretty good hay, what are we looking at in this scenario okay. So our first sample if I can pull it up here if you look at this sample this is a Bermuda grass crop coastal Bermuda RFQ of 140.5 okay crude protein is about 13.3 total digestible nutrients are 61 percent you'll notice that I'm using the dry matter numbers here that's what we're always going to look at when we talk about nutrition. Look at my ADF my NDF and my lignin over there they all look fine lignin is about five percent that's great nitrates are about 2900 parts per million that's not in the danger zone where I want to be concerned about it. So what's the verdict okay I would tell you this is pretty good stuff okay I would give that one an A plus that's a great sample there's not a cow in your herd that's whose nutritional needs are not going to be met or exceeded by that sample okay really really nice sample that they sent in there. Next one up we're still in Bermuda grass here but we've got a little lower RFQ 132.6 still respectable not a problem at all there 60 percent TDN that looks great uh fiber numbers look really good crude proteins at 18.4 percent that's one of those places where I start to go huh that's kind of strange so I go back down and I look at my nitrates and it's 7900 parts per million okay that's a little bit elevated at that level we're going to have to limit feed this hay at about 50 percent of the ration and no more what nitrates will do if we feed too much of them to these cattle is they will displace oxygen within the bloodstream and if that gets too extreme those cattle will die of nitrate poisoning um if you find a bunch of cattle dead or you find one dead on your farm you think that might be the case uh if it's within a few hours and you can extract some blood from that cow you can tell pretty quickly whether or not that's what she died from that blood's going to look like maple syrup okay it's going to turn dark brown because all the oxygen's been replaced by nitrate okay so that being said okay we got to limit feed it a little bit but in terms of energy content in terms of protein or TDN number that's a usable hay sample we've just got to be careful how we sample it and I would call that a b to a b plus okay now notice we switched um crops here this is not a bermuda grass sample this is a small grain and I don't remember exactly what this was I want to think maybe it was okay um but don't quote me on that now we've got an rfq that's dropped down below 100 we're at 97.7 percent on that crude protein is at 6.5 that's really low guys uh 6.5 percent crude protein is is is very low and that's a place where I would start to get concerned about those late gestation cows those late lactation and peak lactation type cows um that's that's pretty low okay TDN we're still in good shape we're at 56.2 percent uh for total digestible nutrients and our nitrates are in check so in this case a little lower quality still usable I'm going to give this a c mainly because of this protein okay now this is one of those places where we can talk about protein supplementation and usually when I give this talk folks have some questions about different supplements that they can buy at the feed store there's usually a conversation about protein tubs or liquid feeds this is a place where one of those would work pretty well okay when we need to supplement protein but our energy is still adequate um so that's that's just a shout out to those types of feeds again we're looking at a small grain crop here so comparing that back to some of our bermuda grasses some of our bahia grasses we don't often see crude protein fall down below seven percent uh and if you do you're in pretty bad way so that's a place where those will fit we'll talk more about those later all right finally let's look here we're back to bermuda grass again rfq of 78.8 okay uh crude protein is there about 9.9 percent just like I told you it would be even with a really low rfq it's still holding at almost 10 percent crude protein really low on nitrates but look at our energy value okay this this was harvested either very late or suffered some damage after harvest we're at 46.8 percent tdn that's extremely extremely low and if you look like we were talking about earlier down at our lignid number we've crept up over seven okay we're about 7.5 7.47 percent that tells me that crops got a little more mature we're going to have to do some serious energy supplementation here okay to keep these cows from dropping body weight and and because of that because of what it's going to cost me uh to supplement those cows i'm going to go ahead and give that one a flump it's okay to flunk people once in a while i tell my students that all the time but they don't believe it um in any event those are the places that i look when you guys send me one of these for an assessment and and these are the places i would recommend that that you look when you get your your quality samples back i do notice some of you uh taking pictures and stuff of these slides i do want to make make you aware not that you have to you're welcome to do that but i will post this video online i'm recording this session so this will be available on ugabeef.com here within the next couple of days a full recording of it so you're more than welcome to to download it as many times as you need to it'll be probably a youtube link um all right so we've talked a little bit about forage analysis and how to evaluate those let's talk a little bit about supplementation um and just like everything else there's there's no silver bullet here that i can give you your production system and what you're trying to do with the cattle on your place is going to determine uh what kind of supplementation strategy you have to have if if you're like we are here in tifton and you're testing out bulls like that big charlay up there in the left hand corner uh your system's going to be different than if you're just carrying those angus cows through if you're feeding out the hereford steers there in the lower left hand corner or god help if you've got a kid or a grandkid that's got one of those big nice show heifers in the barn um your supplementation costs get pretty crazy in that sense right uh i'm the biggest proponent of youth livestock projects out there you won't find anybody that thinks it's a bigger plan or thinks it's a it's a better thing for a kid to experience but i will tell you when you start putting the pencil down to the nutritional program it'll make you sweat most days okay okay they don't they don't keep looking that good without proper feed so that being said that does kind of lead me into my next point in assessing where we are in terms of our cow herd we've talked about looking at our forage samples and deciding if we may need supplementation let's talk a little bit about what the cows look like uh and that goes back to body condition scoring i can give you a whole talk on body condition scoring so we're not going to spend a tremendous amount of time on it here but i do want you to be aware of it uh in beef cattle the standardized scale we use runs from one to nine you can see what a one looks like down there in our brahmin cow on the bottom left whereas a nine is going to be the red cow standing beside her neither one of these are where we want to be okay um i don't really care if you learn what's a one what's a two what's a three what's it that's nice if you're going to communicate to somebody but frankly what i'm more interested in is you being able to look at your cows and visually assess how much body fat's there that's what we're trying to do with this system we say that we want our cows to be in a five or better okay i would tell you the only time that i shift on that sometimes is for those three-year-old heifers uh that are starting to get bred their second time around it gets real hard to hold them at a five so if you can stay at a four four and a half um a five's ideal but if you can stay at a four four and a half you're probably winning uh the game for those second calf females um as a rule of thumb your body condition score is going to be 75 to 80 pounds of body weight that is is got quite a margin of error with it okay depending on that cow's frame size and body type and all those types of things um another thing i want to touch on here before i get to the next slide is the idea of feeding cows and gestation i usually have somebody jump up here uh when i give this talk live and ask me about feeding cows that are pregnant because they're afraid they're going to increase fetal growth and they're going to have dystocia problems when those calves cow or when those cows cab out uh what if i told you you cannot force an animal to gain beyond its genetic potential okay if you've bred that uh that heifer to a bull a cow to a bull a high accuracy bull and you know what his genetic potential for growth is you have a really good idea of your worst case scenario in a cabin problem you cannot there's not enough feet in the world to make that calf grow beyond what it's genetically capable of doing now that being said if you get into the third trimester of a pregnancy and you just absolutely feed the stew out of a cow yes you can make that fetus gain a little more weight um i will say this if you only feed a cow for maintenance during her third trimester you're going to watch her body condition score drop okay and that's just a matter of math if you think about it so those first two two trimesters in that cow's pregnancy that calf tissues are developing we're having some some differentiation of some different types of cells in there but there's not a tremendous amount of growth going on there's some but not a lot when we get into that last trimester that's when we start to to see fetal growth really increase so that calf in those last three months is going to gain somewhere around a pound a day so if i'm feeding this cow to maintain her body weight and i got a calf inside of her that's gaining a pound today where's he getting that extra pound it's coming from mama so she's going to sacrifice some of her own energy reserves to make sure that calf's healthy maintenance and when i say maintenance i mean keeping her heart pumping and her metabolism going and her body temperature where it's supposed to be and lactation or her and lactation taking care of that baby are going to be her two biggest physiological priorities so when she's in that third trimester she will sacrifice some body condition to make sure that calf gets what it needs that being said i recommend most folks feed for about a pound a day of gain during that phase that's maintaining your cow's body weight but giving that baby enough to grow like it should excuse me all right let's jump back for a second and backtrack on body condition score in just a minute this is the window where we want to be okay and and without getting too deep into the weeds here hopefully you can see a difference between these two females the white female at the top they've scored her at a four that yellow orange female at the bottom of the slide she's a five the places where i'm going to tell you to look for those differences are going to be right in the floor of her chest in her brisket you'll notice the white female is a lot cleaner up around that area through her front legs whereas the yellow heifer is a lot fuller there in her brisket and her form for it poor rib the white heifer you can kind of see the shadow of her ribs there a little bit she's a lot cleaner in her flank and if you look up around her tail head that's also a lot freer of fat now when i say tail heads i don't want you to have those big fat bones on either side of their tail like you see like in some of these show steers and and stuff like that but we want that area to be filled in smooth so we can tell the difference now between a four and a five that that cow that's a four her body fat percentage is about fifteen and a half percent whereas that five is about eighteen and a half percent so we're only talking about a three percent difference in body fat here but back in the late 80s early 90s there was a large study done all across the southeast looking at pregnancy rates and how they correlated the body condition scores and what they found is that when we increase body fat by that three and a half percent between a four and a five we end up increasing our pregnancy rate by almost thirty percent okay which sounds crazy but you have to understand that this cow's body takes physiological cues from her system body fat percentage is one of the things that's a trigger there if she's if we know that somewhere between a four and a five is the switch that says okay we're in good enough shape i can cycle okay that's not to say that anything below a four is not going to breed you can see the numbers right there even those cows below a three you've still got about a 30 32 percent chance of getting them bred you get them up to a four you're at 60 percent we're in the dairy business that ain't bad but if we jump up to a five if we can get them up to a five we're at about 87 percent pregnancy rate so that's where we want to be you can see that number tapers off a little bit when we get above a six i would tell you if you've got cattle that are sixes and sevens i would not be concerned at all uh if you get into the eight and nine range then you're starting to get too fat and certainly wouldn't be feeding anything that goes beyond a five but you know some of those cattle are really efficient you put them out there on pasture and they're on nothing but grass and they'll just get greasy fat on you some of them don't typically as cattle age um that that changes uh with age and ability to grow but that's that's my recommendation is is try to stay below an eight on on body condition score you don't want to get any fatter than that because then we start running into problems with fat accumulation around the track uh and getting those cows bred ai that's where you see that little bit of a dip still better to be on the heavy side than the light side and unfortunately we don't see that happen very often in production okay this slide comes in a little bit talking about simply knowing your inventory and again before we get into what can i use to supplement cattle let's talk about building that system around your forage base so know what you have available to you whether you're cutting hay yourself whether you're buying hay from somebody else know what you have okay store it properly uh obviously best case scenario there is in a barn i realize that's not an option for everybody the more protected from the weather it can be the better stacked end to end is great if you don't have cover for it again hay storage and processing is kind of a whole nother talk but store it as properly as you can test it and when i say test it i mean test the cuttings if possible keep track of where you put those now for the cow's sake and in formulating the best supplement possible your testing is as close to feeding as possible tends to be the best strategy i realize that's not feasible for everybody so i would tell you that if you're going to test hay closer to cutting than you are to feeding give it three weeks 18 to 21 days after you cut it to make sure all the metabolism has gone out of it all the moisture is down to where it's going to be that's where you get a relatively stable reading now it will change there is no doubt about it if you if you wait four and a half five six months before you feed that and you take another sample you're going to you're going to get some different results but we're we're feeding cows not building pocket watches here so we don't have to be exact we've got to be as close as we can possibly be but know how those cuttings test out and keep track of your inventory know where each cutting is or each lot that you buy because what can happen here if these are my three hay cuttings okay that first one i get you know just as spring's coming in and it's rocket fuel man it's like that first one we looked at that we gave the a plus two it's 14 percent crude protein 60 tdn that stuff's great second cutting you get there in mid-summer 10 crude protein 55 tdn that is quintessential bermuda grass it's good quality it's not what we would call exceptional it's certainly not what we would call bad um and then let's say our last cutting we get in there kids got back in school got rained on let the forage get too mature or something like that we see a quality drop off we're down to six or seven percent crude protein and about 47 tdn we have three dynamically different lots of hay there and if we just start at the front of the barn and move backwards most likely what we're going to end up with is cows in mid-winter eating the sorry stuff right so this is where a little bit of strategizing come in comes in if you have the ability to put in some temporary fencing if you have the ability to separate cows that are in the same phase of production out then we can start doing some mix and match here and really minimize our supplementation costs i realize that everybody's not on a control calving season that's by far the easiest way to manage cattle but even if you're not if you can get those dry cows separated off from your late gestation cows and certainly get those separated from your early lactation cows where they have a really high drain on their their metabolism we can mix and match that rocket fuel that we cut at the first of the year is going to meet the requirements of those early lactation cows it's the good stuff save it for them they need the good stuff same thing can be said for our middle cutting it's average quality that late gestation cow okay that's what that calf's doing that pound a day roughly of growth she's going to need a little more nutrition than she's going to be if she's just a dry pregnant cow that's that hadn't reached that phase yet but doesn't need the same level of nutrition that that peak lactation cow does and then save the sorry stuff for our dry cows right that second that second trimester there's not a lot of fetal growth going on she's already dried off from her lactation even at six and 47 percent crude protein that will still meet her needs okay she's not going to get fat on it but it has saved us some supplementation cost so think about that going forward and again test test test test you'll hear me say that over and over and over again energy supplementation is what i'm going to get first we'll get to protein here in a second but when we talk about energy supplementation we already said our first option needs to be our forage this slide says to avoid high starch supplements i'm going to tell you it is better to feed starch to cattle on grass than to have skinny cattle okay that being said when we talk about room and microbiology and and the bugs that are actually doing the heavy lifting in terms of digestion here those bugs that break down forages and fiber tend to thrive in a more neutral environment than do those that digest starch so our classic recommendation there has been to try to minimize the amount of starch that we can feed that was not a hard sell at all when corn was eight dollars it's a lot more cost effective now so this is not a do not feed corn slide this is a look at your options slide if you have the ability to use a higher digestible fiber supplement you know your soy holes your your wheat mids corn gluten feed silage is a great one if you have the ability to make that citrus pulp if you're in the the south georgia florida area even distiller's grains we tend to think of those as more of a um a protein supplement but they can make a pretty they can make an all-around supplement if the if the nutrient analysis is right so not telling you to be scared of corn not telling you to worry about that too much just be careful with it because it's kind of like i tell people it's kind of like congress okay what is the only way to accomplish anything in congress is to have an overwhelming majority right because if you're really down to the wire and it's just a few votes on either side one side is going to make it so miserable for the other side that it's hard to accomplish anything so if we have a population of bugs there that like a neutral ph a population of bugs that like an acidic ph which is what those starch digesters prefer that they kind of let make life more miserable for each other and what you end up seeing is as you increase the amount of starch in the diet you decrease the amount of forage that's actually being digested and that's by far your more economical source of energy okay so again not saying don't use it if you're in a bind you've got poor quality forage and you got to get those those body condition scores up or maintain them by all means use it but if you have the option to look at something that's that's a little more fiber rich and less starchy that tends to work a little bit better in these systems where we are on a forage based diet okay protein supplements uh our classics here that everybody talks about in terms of protein supplements are oilseed meals i'm going to be real honest with you for most cattle producers these have kind of priced themselves out of competition when you start looking at things like soybean meal even cottonseed meal the hog industry the poultry industry they tend to buy a lot of these things up and they're willing to pay a little more for it than most cattlemen are so a lot of times it's not what we see in a beef cattle diet as often as we used to a whole cottonseed still very very common here in the south and very affordable the last couple of years i tell you three years ago it was it was kind of on the borderline there it had gotten so expensive that it almost didn't pay to use it i'm going to skip non-protein nitrogen for now and come back to it because that's what the next few slides are on more commonly now we see protein supplemented with a byproduct of some time we typically i use the word co-product now i was i was trained in the midwest and i got used to call them co-products up there that's what they prefer to call things like distillers grains and corn gluten feed brewers grains cottonseed because they do have a use as a feedstuff it's not a simple byproduct that that you know there's nothing to do with it there's there's definitely a home for it in the feed industry um whichever term you use there is fine all right let's jump back up and talk about npm specifically here we're usually talking about urea and if anybody's trying to get their head around this we're talking about protein and then i come up with something called non-protein nitrogen that doesn't seem to jive well that's because it doesn't uh in ruminants where we have this big ecosystem in their stomach with these microbes that do so much for them and allow us to feed them so many things that we couldn't otherwise use that is also true for nitrogen assuming there is enough carbon present in the rumen and enough nitrogen at the same time and the energy is there those bugs will synthesize protein now they do that by reproducing and making more bugs but those bugs have to go somewhere they wash out of the rumen and they can be used as a protein source for the animal one of the cool things about that system is that the amino acid profile the protein quality of those microbes almost exactly meets what a mature cow needs okay now npn sounds like a great deal and it works very well in certain systems it has to be done um specifically for mature cattle okay they are not going to be able to produce enough what we call microbial crude protein to sustain growth so if we're talking about young calves stocker cattle the heifers that we're developing out i typically just tell everybody to steer clear of non-protein nitrogen supplements for protein there they need a they need a whole protein that's that's got some some actual amino acids to it but for those mature cows that are kind of at the top of their growth curve and have plateaued out it can work well this is the technology we see a lot of times in liquid feeds and that's something i can typically get a lot of questions about so i'm going to spend a couple of slides here talking about those if my slides will advance that is there we go um and and what they are good for what i what i like about them what i dislike about them because everybody's got their own opinion here um but the take-home message i'm going to give you up front where liquid feeds are concerned or or any feed really that's mixed and formulated specifically it's one of those deals you kind of get what you pay for stick with a pretty reputable brand and in most cases you're going to be fine um there there are companies out there that are nationwide companies that have nutritionists on staff and they make these things and they're good products what i tend to get a little careful about is when you know we get into one of those mom and pop deals where anybody with a boat paddle in the bathtub decides they can make liquid feed right all they got to have some urea and some molasses and then they got to stir it up and sell it to you that's where we can get into some issues with these okay they work well with moderately low and i'll go as far as to say low quality forage all the way up to excellent quality forage if we have really poor quality forage okay that tdn down below 50 percent then i start to worry a little bit i think the nutritional gap gets a little wide for these things to meet that need at the level of intake they're formulated for what do i mean when i say that a lot of these um products products are labeled for two to four pounds per head per day of intake now it's not as simple as that cow reads the label and says oh well i can't have any more today uh most of them though do have an intake limiter of some kind in there that limits that intake within that range it's cow specific just like taste is person specific right you have people that love broccoli and people that hate broccoli you got cows that'll eat more liquid feed and cows that'll eat less but when that nutritional gap is really wide and you've got really really poor quality forage i get concerned that their level of intake on this stuff is not sufficient to meet that okay i also um would tell you some of these are marketed as a complete supplement with minerals included i've listed that here as an advantage um because that's how you'll find it on the label a word of caution with that is that it's intake dependent and i am not a guy that likes to play around with my minerals i'm pretty hard nosed about it if you ask me how you should feed minerals in a cow-calf operation i would tell you that it needs to be a free choice bagged mineral and they need to have access to it all the time uh either that or if you are dry lotting some cows and feeding them you can mix it into the ration to make sure they're eating it my problem with with minerals fed through these tanks is i can't measure how much of it they're getting so whereas two to four pounds of intake per head per day is what the label is going to say for these liquid feeds you know most of your minerals are going to be formulated for two to four ounces well i can't watch that level of syrup in that tank drop and know if i'm meeting my mineral needs that may just be being a little overly enthusiastic but i like i like my mineral program separate uh in this instance okay the big advantage to liquid feeds are convenience right you fill that sucker up you don't have to worry about going out there every day and dropping feed um and that's great that that's that's certainly an advantage to them it is something you end up paying a little bit for uh and you can kind of see that here in the second bullet point uh when i this is actually this number is actually about a year old now but last year i went through and and looked at several of these liquid products calculated what you were looking at uh in terms of dollars per ton and it was about 229 dollars okay is what you would pay for per ton of this stuff um so if you could build a supplement and supplement for less than 229 a ton you may be in better shape financially to do that but whatever the difference is that's going to be your cost of convenience okay um the the top point up there about room and synchronization that has to do with making sure that these things are balanced and this goes back to staying with reputable uh suppliers these things have to be formulated very specifically because if there's not enough energy there when we add this ammonia to the earth this uh urea to the rumen it's going to get converted to ammonia and they're going to pee it out on the ground okay so you don't really get the benefit of the added urea at that point uh we've got to make sure that those things are balanced correctly what do we do if our forage quality is extremely low okay that is typically the place where i tend to send folks a different direction um there there are folks out there i will tell you that right now that's that's not a universally accepted recommendation there are people out there say well these things are advertised to to increase low quality forage intake and they will certainly do that uh the question is if the quality of that forage is so low that those cattle are eating so much are eating they can't eat enough to meet their needs okay and we've run into that in some issues when you get into winter time and maybe cattle aren't drinking as much and that digestive starts to dry down we think we've seen some instances here in the state with with omasal and abomasal impactions where those cattle over consumed on really poor quality forage they couldn't digest it down and actually caused an impact in their gut and those cattle died um that's anecdotal information i'm not telling you that's the fault of liquid feed but i'm telling you that when you get into that type of a situation you've got to have a supplement that increases room and turnover that keeps that digestive flowing through the system okay final thoughts on these okay choose them based upon your cold forage quality um look at whether or not your source of protein is an npn or if there is true protein to it some of these tubs are cooked with distiller solubles and things like that they may not have nearly as much npn as some of the others um like i said that's a big deal when we're talking about cattle that are still growing versus those that are mature okay think about that convenience cost how much are you paying not to have to to feed every day okay and look at the ingredients not necessarily the brand see what you're buying those those are the big tips i have for you there all right we're down into the short rows of this i said i would be done in an hour and it's probably going to be about an hour and 10 minutes so i promise i won't keep you much longer uh what i do want to show you here is a chart basically a graph uh or table that dr stewart and i sat down and put together a few years ago when we were looking at what are the options everybody would call and they'd say okay here's my hay quality what do i need to feed so what you're looking at here down the left hand side of this table we've got one two three four different what we would call common supplements that we see in georgia a 50 50 corn gluten feed soy hull blend a 50 50 distiller's soy hull blend a 60 20 20 soy hulls corn gluten feed and corn and then whole cottonseed is a complete supplement okay and then you'll see we've broken that down between your dry pregnant cows your peak lactation cows and your late lactation cows okay across the top you'll find your forage quality and again we're feeding cows not building pocket watches so it doesn't have to match these numbers exactly exactly but when you get your forage analysis back if you're in that seven percent crude protein 48 percent tvn we're going to call that pretty poor okay so you're looking at the first column average is the middle column a good to excellent quality forage would be the far right hand column all you got to do is know where your cow is know what kind of forage you have and pick a supplement run it over that tells you how many pounds per head per day of that supplement that cow should be fed okay to meet her nutritional requirements that's for maintenance we're not talking about anybody gaining weight here or anything like that you will notice excuse me that um some of these don't have numbers there they'll have an na non-applicable in the case of that 60 soy hulls 20 gluten 20 corn mix when we get into a extremely poor quality forage and a high requirement peak lactation type cow it becomes economically unfeasible to use that supplement because i can't meet her crude protein requirements with that blend we need to use something else for her you'll see the same thing there in the peak lactation cows when we're talking about whole cottonseed if we have really poor quality forage or average quality forage basically what's happening there is our software is predicting a level of intake that we don't recommend uh cottonseed has a lot of fat in it about 25 percent oil uh we try to feed that at about a half percent of body weight at maximum so for your 1200 pound average 1200 pound cow you're talking about six pounds per head per day so if our program recommended above that then we didn't we didn't provide that number i have another set of tables that i ran specifically for a county meeting uh a few weeks ago that i will show you and this was based on questions that the county agent gave me okay he said i want to know about liquid feed he said we have a lot of people here that grow oats he said i get people all the time to call and say i got oats in the bend and i want to feed oats and only oats so how much of it do i have to feed to meet the requirements i use what they call an all stock feed over there that's just a basic oil seed protein source with oats and corn in it and then your whole cottonseed down there at the bottom these are 1200 pound brood cows consuming a bermuda grass hay where are the problem spots here well if you're looking at the liquid feed column or the liquid feed rows first hopefully you're seeing a 12 and a 13 pound per head per day level of intake is not feasible for those types of feeds okay one i don't know if they even eat that much of it two if they do eat that much of it they're going to eat you out of house and home okay that's going to cost a fortune six pounds eight pounds per head per day is still above label requirements on a lot of those products so i would be weird wary of those in the situations that i've circled there but in a pinch you can probably make it work okay second scenario i've got here is oats bear in mind this is a thought exercise and i'm not recommending this but in this case this guy said i he said all i've got oats i don't want to buy anything how much of it do i have to feed to meet her needs so take a look here at our peak lactation cows and our late lactation cows on poor quality forage 16 and 10 pounds of straight oats per head per day she is going to get fat okay and the only reason that i have to feed that much is that's how much i have to feed to get to the level of protein she's going to need in this case protein is a little more limiting and we end up overfeeding energy this would be a situation where we would really want to blend those oats with something else if we wanted to make the best possible supplement same thing was true for our high cereal grain mix down here i've got some some pretty heavy heavy intake there that's probably going to result in overfeeding energy and then i get down here to my whole cotton seed again we've got the one there that's that's seven pounds per head per day i'm not going to get heartburn over seven pounds if that number starts creeping up to eight nine ten pounds on those 1200 pound cows mate you're probably overfeeding fat okay with that being said i know that was a lot like drinking out of a fire hose and like i said i will have it up online for you guys to listen to the recording i will take any questions you may have i will also ask that you remember tomorrow especially if you're in the north georgia area or you don't have anything to do um our performance tested bull sale at calhoun will be tomorrow uh starting at 12 well i think they're going to start selling cattle about 1 30. they have lunch ready for you about 12 if you want to go up and look at bulls for questions you can either click on your little microphone there and talk or you can type into the chat box and i'll try to answer those questions as much as best i can no questions jacob this is hey question yeah uh i know you talked a lot about the liquid supplements we've been feeding for the past couple years those range cubes that say uh feed at two pounds per head per day um supplement how realistic is that and what is that it's like a 20 protein deal that's going to depend on it's going to depend on what's in it i mean i hate to say that but the problem one of the problems with feed labeling is it's it's you have a lot of latitude in what you can put on a feed label so they're going to give you that protein percentage and they're probably going to give you a minimum of how much urea was put you used in there basically the same rules apply uh i try not to use those things on cattle that are still growing uh if there's a heavy dose of urea in there they work fine for for supplementing um you know relatively poor to moderate quality forages they are not typically known for being super high energy so if you do get into a situation where you've got a low tdn low rfq type feed it may be time to go back to that nutrient label look at it and say okay is this actually doing what i want it to do or am i supplementing something i've already got enough of thank you yep anyone else well i very much appreciate it like i said i hope all of you if you will take a minute open up your chat box i dropped a link in there to a survey it's just three questions like i said it'll take you less than a minute to do it it's just so i can collect some data to show my boss that i am still working here and i would certainly appreciate you guys doing that that be the case i will join you again uh seven o'clock next thursday with dr fluhardy talking about farm finished beef i appreciate everybody joining us tonight thank you thank you thank you you're welcome