The Art of Strawberry Cultivation: Tips for Luscious Berries
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DDg7sx66OJY
Howto & Style
 Now, I just want to show you my strawberry patch because if you guys have followed me, or if you've actually come to me because you saw my strawberry planting video, then you'll know that we planted these strawberries about three months ago, and they are doing wonderfully. So as you can see, these strawberries are doing quite well. You can see all these beautiful, beautiful strawberries right there. You can see all these wonderful runners here and even the unrighted strawberries right there. And these guys are loving life. These guys are producing well. They are happy, and they are busting at the seams here with all the produce. Now, if your strawberries are not looking like mine here, there's a couple of things that you can do that are going to perk them up, that's going to make them produce better and going to make them grow the most luxurious strawberries you've ever had, the sweetest strawberries you've ever had. Now, the first thing we're going to do to help our strawberries out is we are going to fertilize. Now, right over here is the video on where I planted these strawberries, the fertilizer I used, and why we did that. Because strawberries are a very finicky kind of plant. They really like to have a lower pH soil, and they will suffer if they don't. So we're going to add that fertilizer in there that's got those components that lower that pH, and that's going to help them grow big, nice, firm, juicy strawberries, and it's going to help your plants look like these. The other thing is, is strawberries like to have a very, very loose, loamy soil, and they don't like wet feed. Just like a tomato, they want that soil to drain away fast, but they still want to have moist soil, not wet soil. So, in order to take care of that, I have added straw. Now, the straw is going to help keep the moisture into the soil, but it's also going to allow that soil to drain and kind of maintain that kind of happy medium, which is going to help these plants grow and do well. Now, the first problem we run into is, especially with straw, is most of the straw you're going to buy is going to have seed in it. And I've kind of found a way that we can keep the straw, but actually separate out the seed. And what I've found is, is if you take a five-gallon bucket, or actually I used a large, like, almost like a big wash tub, you take that straw, and actually for this, because I knew I had a bunch of plants that I needed to fit that straw in around, and I didn't want these super long pieces of straw, I actually cut it up and then washed it in that bucket. Got about a half a bucket of water, put that straw into it that I had chopped up, and moved it around to release those seeds and make them fall to the bottom. Then I pulled, you know, I took handfuls out as I was washing it, and then placed it in my beds around my strawberries. And I'm going to tell you that it worked wonderful, but I will tell you, when you pour that water out, pay attention to where you pour it out at, because there's going to be a lot of seeds in the bottom of it. The other thing that helps is, as you're washing this straw, that straw is picking up water, and it's going to retain that water. So when you put it down, now you've got a moist layer of straw on top of your bed, and it is going to start leaching moisture down into the bed, but it's not going to get it to where it's actually wet, and it's going to be harmful to these plants. Now, dealing with straw and covering our beds, or even if you're using mulch, we run into sort of an issue with the fact of we have runners. Now, with runners, runners are a wonderful thing. These are where our strawberry plants actually send out long leads, and wherever that long lead will touch the ground, it will actually set down roots and create a whole other strawberry plant, which is wonderful for you guys who have a whole bed, and you have room in between those strawberries and so forth. But for guys like me, and I've got this, I mean, really, I've got it over full of these strawberries, that whatever you have these leaders going out, you don't necessarily want them here. So, a technique that I've come up with, and something that I think is going to help a lot of you, if you don't have room in your beds, or if you've got straw, which is going to keep those runners from contacting the ground, here's something you can do in order to save your runners, and be able to move them somewhere else, or it will allow you to transplant those into your bed, but maybe not where the plant wants to put them down. So, what we're going to do is, we are actually going to take a little 4x4 pot of soil, and we're going to set this in our bed. And what that's going to allow us to do is take these runners like this, we can bring them over to where that runner is, and see right here where it makes this little bend, that's where it's going to send out a root. And all we've got to do is give that thing a little shove, and cover it with a little bit of soil. We're going to have to move it over here, because unfortunately this leader is going to go where it wants to go, and you're going to bury it. That is all you're going to do. Now, as you can see, I've already got some here, that are down in there, and are trying to make roots. Now, as you can see, this one is actually continuing on. Well, I don't want this to continue on, I want it to stop, so what I'm going to do is I'm going to pinch that off, and I'm going to stop that runner from continuing on, and this is going to be the end of it. And so, whenever this actually takes root, you'll start to see this start to die back. Once this dies back, we can clip this off, we can take that plant out, and we can put that wherever we want. Strawberries are what I like to call a family and friends plant. And that means that, number one, if you plant them, and you give them the nutrition, and they are happy plants, they're going to do two things. They're going to give you enough strawberries that you're going to be able to share with your family and friends. And number two, they're going to send out enough runners to where you're going to have enough extra plants to give to family and friends. And you might even have enough that if you want to, you can sell the other. So, these plants are going to give back what you put into them. If you give them love and care and all the nutrition they want, they will reward you with fruit and with new plants. Now, keep in mind, these new plants that are being made are the replacements for the other plants that are going to stop producing and slow down and are going to die eventually. Because strawberries have a very limited lifespan and you need those new plants in order to replace the older plants that are going to stop producing. So, we need to keep that in mind whenever we're, you know, maybe we're getting our pots and we're getting the other runners that we're making into plants and we're giving those away. You might want to hold back a couple for yourself so that in a few years or in maybe the next year if you've had them in the ground quite a while that you can start replacing those plants that are not making fruit anymore. Now, another care tip that I can give you guys is strawberry plants are going to have leaves that die off. Here's a perfect example. That leaf down there had died off. Here's another one that has died off. And the reason that that's going to happen is because you are going to have these plants are going to get huge. They're going to get a lot of green on top of them and some of the under, some of the leaves that are under the plant are going to die. Now, typically this is going to provide a natural mulch for your strawberries. But, if you have mulch or straw or hay underneath these strawberries, you don't necessarily need that natural mulch. You can leave them there. It's not going to hurt anything. But, if you, you know, you don't want to look at it, it's not going to hurt to pull those off and get rid of them. You just kind of give them a nice little tug and they come off. Now, I will say that some people told me that I should never plant this many strawberries in one bed. And, you know, that may be right for some people. But, I live down here in Texas to where it's extremely hot most of the time. And, if you plant your strawberries this way, you have to be kind of mindful of where you live at because of, if these are in an area to where you have a lot of moisture in the air that is not going to dry off quickly, you can deal with wilt and mold and mildew and those kinds of things on your strawberry plants. You'll get gray mold on your strawberries, things like that. But, down here in Texas to where we're in, I mean, we're already in the 80s in April. And, these, the moisture on these plants is going to dry very, very quickly. It's not going to stick around. There's not going to be enough of a, a chance for any kind of mold or wilt to set in. So, me planting them this close together means that I maximize my space to get more strawberries out of a smaller space. And, frankly, I had the plants so I didn't want to, you know, I wanted to plant as many as I could in order to have the most production that I could get. There's plenty of nutrition in the bed to carry these things over. I put the straw down to help retain the moisture and as you can see, these plants are not suffering by any means. Now, if you look at the planting instructions whenever you get them, they're going to tell you to plant them about a foot apart and the rows need to be about a foot and a half apart that you need to heal them and all these other things. And, yes, that is a perfectly good description of how commercial farmers and commercial growers grow these plants because they need to have room in between these rows to get people down through there in order to pick them. And, also, they won't want them so close together that they have to hunt and find for strawberries. They want them to be right out in the open. Now, this, the way these are planted is kind of like a treasure hunt every day. I come out here, I sift through and I push all the plants out of the way and look at everything because I'm hunting for strawberries. Now, a lot of times I've kind of scoped them out. I know where they're at, but I can do that because I'm a small home gardener. I'm dealing with, you know, 40, 50 plants here at most and I can just go through and pick them out. No big deal. I'm not worried about time, production, and I'm not looking at efficiency whenever it comes to picking strawberries. So, if you have a different idea or a different reason why you think that these plants are supposed to be spaced that far apart, put it down in the comments. Let me know. School me. Educate me. I may be a gardener who's been doing it for years, but I don't know absolutely everything and I am always willing to listen to and have someone tell me something that I might not know already. So, I hope you found these tips and this information very, very helpful to help you grow bigger and better strawberries and if it was, I'd ask you to go down below and subscribe to me and, you know, hit that bell notification, hit that icon too. You know, that way you can find out whenever I've put out new videos and you can be the first to watch them. So, guys, as always, I thank you for joining me today. I ask you to pray over your family, pray over your garden and have a great day.