tokin daily: why some buds smell like hay; curing the bud properly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DdroBbSxl_4
People & Blogs
 Hello everybody, welcome to Token Daily. Today is the 25th of May, the year is 2010, and for today's episode I'm going to talk about something that I encounter quite often. That is buds that are not cured properly. The easiest way to tell this is by smelling the bud. What you'll get with a properly cured, properly dried bud is an intensely good smell. Shit's going to smell either super skunky, really fruity, or have that, the classic diesel-y smell to it. And if you don't treat your grow properly, you'll never get that smell. You'll have your stuff smelling like hay, or like grass, or it just won't have a smell to it, period. And that's so fucking disappointing to get a really good bud, something that looks good, something that feels good, nice and solid, but when you break it up, it just doesn't have a smell. It leaves you desiring something more. Now, the way to get that good smell to your pot is to take it after it's fully dried. Personally, my stuff dries for about five days, and then at that point, it's ready to go in the jar. Cut it from the plant. I stick it in the jar, and after it's in the jar, that first day, I'll let it sit for a few hours, and then pop the top of the jar off, let that sit off for a couple minutes, let it air out, or burping as the official name for that is called. I'll do that a few times the first day, like maybe three or four times, and the second, third, all the days after that, pretty much just once, maybe twice a day. What that does is that it lets the gases that are still inside of the bud and inside of the green leafy material, lets that escape, and yeah, just lets the process of curing take hold and do what it should. I'm talking too much here, my joint just went out. Bad stoner. Bad stoner. So anyway, next time you find some buds and they don't smell very good, just know that it tells you a little bit about the grower of that strain, tells you how much they cared about their product before they let it go out to the market. The better it tastes, the better it smells rather, the more pride they usually put into their product. Because it really doesn't take that much. I mean, even if you're growing on a large scale, if you take the time to cure your product before selling it, the people that end up consuming it are going to be much happier and much, much, more likely to come back to the source where they got it from to get more of that specific stuff or the stuff grown by that grower. Just because they know it's going to be worth it. So, I believe that's all I got for you today. My joint's almost gone here. So, until tomorrow, my name is Paul and you've been watching me here on Token Daily, the only show on the internet dedicated to the true stoners out there. Even the non-true stoners. If you like smoking weed every now and then, cool. You might find something worth watching on my show here. But, I'm coming at you with high definition action, usually on a 720p, but it's something, right? Every single day of the year, that's 365 days of the year, I will have a video for you. I'll probably have one on leap day too, so, 366 every four years. Alrighty then, I am out of here. Got to get something to drink. All this smoke really, really parches my throat. So, until tomorrow, my name is Paul. I hope everybody out there is having a good stony day. One more thing. Tomorrow is hash day. Everybody, if you don't know, Wednesdays are hash days on my show. So, for tomorrow's show, I'm going to do another video response video. So, if you have hash, or if you can get some hash today, get it ready. Get your video camera ready for tomorrow. And, if you're able to, throw up a quick video as a response to my video tomorrow. I'll have further instructions on that tomorrow. So, once again, bye.