Social Media Marketing for Farmers Markets
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dEkokStfy2E
People & Blogs
 One reason that I'm passionate about sharing what I know is not only because, well, you know, I used to be a food inspector for the USDA. I was at a Tyson plant. After that, I went and managed a farrowing department for Smithfield Foods. So I was on the hog farm. And so I was able to bring, you know, my passion and apply it in the marketing and news aspect of agriculture. I currently work at CBS 17 and I live and breathe digital marketing every day from talking with new businesses to building strategies, implementing those strategies, looking at monthly reporting and optimizing. And I also am able, very blessed and able to have the show called On Carolina Soil with Emily, which really just brings my passion forward with making sure that farmers have a platform to speak for themselves. We can educate consumers. And so with that being said, I saw a commercial that's been running on streaming television that really just, I think, speaks volumes for what marketing can do and also, you know, whether it's good or bad. So let me share this and we'll play it. Did you know over 8 million tons of the fresh produce that's grown ends up in here? That really stinks. At Birdseye, we pick our vegetables at their peak of ripeness. And we use our awesome stay fresh flash freezing process to freeze time. So you get all the taste of nutrients and fresh with no waste of money that's all the taste of nutrients and fresh with no waste of water. And that puts a lid on that. The farmer, the freezer, Birdseye. So, um, that, those are the type of marketing, uh, commercial, uh, commercials that really upset me and make me super excited to share with you guys anything that I know, um, that can help actually educate consumers, uh, and not just say, hey, if you're going to go buy fresh produce, terrible idea, it's just going to go in the trash. Um, I've definitely sat on my couch a few times thinking, I'm just gonna, I'm just gonna call Birdseye. I'm gonna find out who their marketing person is. But like, no, I better not do that. Okay. So now that I'm going to exit out of that, I'll get out of my, you know, my little, um, spill on that for the day. But let's talk about social media. I know that, um, as somebody that helps people with their marketing, um, from the, the, the actual paid marketing side to me putting together social content to go on, on Carolina soil page, it is not an easy task. Um, it is, it is difficult and it takes time. Um, and you know, sometimes you just feel like you, you've ran out of ideas. Um, but there's always those basics that you can go back to and best practices, uh, just, you know, to keep you going, even when you feel like you ran out of the juice, the content, the, the time, the energy. The first thing I always like to start off with when we're talking about any sort of marketing, um, is just looking at the consumer journey and it doesn't matter whether it's paid or just organic marketing. Um, when you start looking at, you know, those leads. So those people that you, maybe you haven't reached yet. And maybe those are the people that you've just reached by somebody else sharing your guys's posts. Those are the people that don't know about you might want to know about you. So it's always good to have that in mind, to be reaching outside of your current followers. Right. Um, so that can kind of lead, that can push you towards maybe content where you do have other people sharing your content that you're posting on social media. Then we get down into the prospects or the consideration part of the funnel. And that's where we're looking at those people that are already following you. And, um, maybe they're interested in coming to the farmer's market, uh, but they haven't come yet. Uh, but they are following you. They have expressed some interest. So what kind of content can you promote, uh, those people that haven't come to the farmer's market yet, but you want to come to the farmer's market. And then of course, bottom of the funnel, those customers, looking at those people that you know are coming, what can you post content wise to make them come back next week? Um, so really just looking at those conversions and those, that retention rate, right? Um, how are we going to keep people coming back as well if they aren't already? And, uh, with all of that being said, all of those different parts of the funnel do require a little bit of different content, right? There's not a one size fits all strategy, but what we are going to do is just look at some basics, um, on things that can get you guys thinking more about what that might entail and look like for you for social content. So, uh, what I also wanted to share is just a little bit on statistics and what we're looking at right now, um, in regards to social media consumption. And, uh, so obviously as we saw, the pandemic definitely spiked, um, you know, that video consumption and just that overall social media consumption. Um, but it has continued to grow year over year and we're now looking at social users spending an average of 42 minutes per day on social media. Um, and not only that, but TikTok has been a major, um, driver of growth. Um, users are spending nearly 48 minutes a day, just consuming videos on TikTok. And so we always do, especially in the marketing sector, really love to push the video aspect of marketing because people can put their eyes on it so they can hear it. They can see it. They have that, um, way to connect to the content, um, in more than just one way. But with all that being said, video is not the end all be all, but video is definitely, uh, an important part of your content. Um, especially when it comes to agriculture, right? We, people want to put their eyes on, um, what they're going to be looking at or consuming. Um, that that's been a huge driver in, um, all, all walks of life in agriculture marketing. So let's move on from statistics. Just to look, let's look at organic social media. Um, it's tricky, right? There's, there's a lot of things that come into play. I know for me, even there have been times where I have posted something for on Carolina soil. And then 25 hours later, I literally have no likes, I have no comments. Um, and then you realize that other people can't even see what you've posted. Um, so there's always just that, that sense of like having to go double check, you know, make sure that your content is being seen. Um, so with, with that being said, let's talk about a few things that we can just focus on, um, that really all tie in together. So one is consistency. Um, trying to post three times a week, I would say at minimum three times a week is a, is a great goal to have. And when we're looking at that, you know, posting that three times a week, that Facebook and Instagram specifically have really allowed us to use that, um, that meta business suite and they've allowed us to start planning in advance those posts. So that is really helpful from a, you know, time management standpoint, we can sit down once a week, um, put an hour of time in and put all those posts that are scheduled to go out throughout the week. So consistency, um, consistency on posting also makes it a little bit more consistent in your own schedule for, for posting content. And then, so we have our, we have our consistency, but then we'll move into engagement, right? That's kind of where it also gets tricky again, trying to keep up with maybe people commenting and you wanting to reply. But, um, it is, it is unfortunately a necessary proponent in our social media, um, because that consistency and that engagement actually help build that algorithm and help push your content out a little bit more. Um, I don't have the secret sauce for Facebook or Instagram algorithms because I believe, I'm sure that they're changing them every day just to make everybody crazy. Um, but there are a few things that I have learned over the years, uh, with posting and that is being consistent and then people being consistent. We're posting at optimal times for people to engage in your content. And then you may be just engaging a little bit back with those people are really going to help optimize that algorithm so that you are utilizing your time in your content. as most, as efficient as possible. Meta business suite, um, has helped me in multiple ways. So one planning your content, like we just discussed, but also looking at, it gives us a good deep dive onto content. So one thing I learned through looking in the meta business suite insights was that yes, video is king, but what's getting me the most engagement, actually pictures were getting me the most engagement. And so that helped me tailor and optimize my strategy on social just enough to say, Hey, I'm going to make a picture that I post, you know, one picture a week or, you know, whatever it was so that I can drive more engagement. And then of course that helps with the algorithm saying, Oh, Hey, let's push this out more because people are obviously interested and engaging. So it's definitely helped with the content. And, um, that might be a little bit different for each of you guys. Uh, and also I know that right now I'm focusing on Facebook and Instagram because those are definitely the most prominent, um, social media platforms for content and not just video. TikTok definitely drives that video, but TikTok also does have some nice features as well in its insights tab that can help you look at what, um, what content is working better for you and driving higher engagements. The other thing that insights can do for you is give you an idea of who your followers are. So the best example I can give you is being that I am producing and hosting on Carolina soil with Emily and we are trying to educate consumers. Um, but looking at the generations of consumers, right? Uh, most of our older generations are most likely they're not as likely to have their opinion changed, but I know that working with a lot of agriculture businesses and farms, um, organizations that a big push has been on getting your content out there to the younger, um, younger demographics. So I was actually able to see that Facebook, I definitely skew higher with, um, an older, an older demographic tick and, um, TikTok. I was actually able to see that I have a probably a little bit more middle range of demographic and then TikTok is where I have that younger demographic. So that also, those insights allow us to tailor our messaging a little bit, even if it's not the, the video or the picture, but maybe it's just a little bit of the message based off of who you're trying to drive into your farmer's market. And I'm sure that's also based off of each individual's geography as well. Um, so that also helps us narrow down that audience. And when we start looking at the audience and who we have following, who's engaging with our content more, and then also the big, you know, question of who we want to drive to the farmer's market, let's talk about who's spending the most money at your farmer's market. Because yes, I know that at, at the end of the day, our goal is to make sure that everybody has food ready and available to them. But when you start looking at it from a, Hey, how am I going to get the most out of this? Who am I going to drive to your, my farmer's market that's going to spend the most money and going to spend it consistently? Because the other traffic is going to come regardless, but we want to make sure that we're driving conversions that are worth your time. That's worth your vendor's time at your farmer's market. And by doing so, that's going to help alleviate a lot of that stress of, am I, you know, what is my purpose? Um, so when we look at conversions, who do we want to target? Who is going to come spend the most money? Because that's what we have to look at it. That's the perspective we have to look at from a business standpoint. And at the end of the day, these farmer's markets are businesses. So I would definitely like you guys to get your juices flowing on who is most likely to convert. Just an idea for you guys, which we will, um, jump into a little bit further, but I would say that most people that are willing to spend, you know, $50 or more at a farmer's market probably have a little bit more disposable of an income. On a weekly basis. So looking at people that have higher household incomes, I do believe is a great way to start, um, getting your juices flowing. Also who's making the decisions? Yes, we might see men and women, men and women, both walking into the farmer's market and purchasing, but who is really making those decisions for those groceries or also who has that time? It might be those stay at home moms that have that time to come to the farmer's market, right? Just some ideas to get your guys's juices flowing when it comes to audience, because audience is also an integral part of our marketing strategy, no matter who you are or what business you are. All right, moving on next to paid social media. So I have from time to time, um, ran a paid ad on Facebook, um, and Instagram, not so much Tik TOK. I don't really, uh, I haven't really fully, um, gotten into the Tik TOK realm only because I, um, like I said, everything, every platform is generational, right? So, uh, I know that I'm still young, but I am old enough that Tik TOK is a little confusing even for me. I'm not quite sure yet how to, uh, build those reels. And I don't know how much time people actually spend building those, you know, crazy, awesome reels that everybody laughs at. Uh, I'm still learning how to find time for more, uh, uh, unique Tik TOK content. But if you don't have Tik TOK, it might be a good place just to add on into your mix of social media. But with that being said, let's focus on the paid social media. So, um, ad creative. Now, since we're talking about farmer's market specifically, I wanted to give you guys the, the best results that can drive if you do have a little bit of marketing budget, right? So one, when you go to build an ad, it's going to give you all these options. Um, what results would you like to get from this ad? I do believe that probably promote your business locally is going to be the best driver for you guys. It's going to already take into consideration your geography and you can go in further into when you're building the ad, um, you know, to narrow down a geography, because we also do want to look at how far are people willing to drive to your farmer's market. But so with that being said, the first thing I would recommend, um, would be promote your business locally because essentially, uh, followers will come. Um, the next is going to be people on social media. They're consuming so much of it, right? We're scrolling and we're scrolling and we're scrolling. So we want to have a very just clear and concise message. If people have to, um, go to read more, they might not read more just because they're like, okay, you know what? Hey, I've been able to get this message out of this one post. All right, I got to move on. Um, so keep your description, um, you know, or your, your message clear and concise. Hey, this is what's going on. This is why we want you to come. And this is what you're going to get out of it. Also another component of your ads that I would highly recommend is building those carousel ads, especially for you guys at farmer's markets. You guys have so many different vendors, so many different options for people to come and purchase. So give them a, give them an idea, you know, um, post that honey, post those strawberries, post those sweet potatoes, um, give people a little bit more, uh, of an option to engage in your content because the further that they engage and go, Ooh, those look good. Ooh, those look good. Or, Oh, Oh, I'd really like to go see that. The more frequency your message is going to get into their brain and it's going to make them go, Hey, you know what? I do need to go to that farmer's market. So driving engagement is definitely a win. If you can get that engagement up, um, it's going to help you with your, with your algorithms and with just driving those people to the farmer's market and actually converting into customers. The next is going to be your button. Hey, your call to action. It doesn't matter what marketing platform we're on, whether it's broadcast television, social media, email marketing, it does not matter. You need to give people an exact call to action. And I would say that one of your best button labels that you guys could use would be get directions. People can pull it up and know exactly what address to go to. That is also going to stick in people's mind, that call to action. And then also last but not least, when I mentioned, um, audience earlier, paid advertising on social media does allow you to narrow down your audience. And I've gotten in there and played around. It's changing on a daily basis, what audiences you can target, but really get an idea of, you know, Hey, I want to drive, um, whether it's, I want to drive women that are 35 plus that have a higher household income that have children. This is where your paid social will allow you to narrow down that audience, narrow down that geography, tailor that messaging, and ultimately reach the people that are most likely to visit your farmer's market.