Unknown Title
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dfkjkRYGO_A
Unknown Category
 Music The Custodia Agraria program is based on agreements for sustainable agricultural practices. So on one side the farm commits to a series of management practices that benefit nature, and on the other side of the agreement, Gomenorca, in recognition of this commitment that benefits society as a whole, will help the farmers in various ways. One of our lines of action is providing training and consulting services on sustainable farm practices and farm management. We know that education is a motive for change, but we also know that farmers and land workers are extremely busy, so we try and choose topics of special interest, such as those that are around increasing agricultural productivity and reducing production costs. Aware of the implications of working in agriculture and livestock, we organise training sessions during one or two days where farmers can pick and choose the workshops of interest, so they don't have to attend all of the sessions. We try to organise training when there is least workload in the agricultural sector, and we always prioritise an informal space and time where producers, educators and other stakeholders can chat with each other and exchange valuable experiences. One of the activities that we organise is the Agriculture and Environment Seminar. You could say that we have been organising it historically because we have already organised 15 editions. It is an annual event where we share inspiring stories from within the agricultural sector. The key point is that the speakers share their direct life experience, so they share their success but also the mistakes they have made and the lessons that they have learnt from it. We also organise technical workshops that include theory and practice in the same day. They cover various topics such as natural pest control, soil fertility, directed grazing or green manures. During these workshops we go into the detail on how to implement the practices shown on the farms. Finally, a point we believe is key when it comes to moving from theory to practice, is accompanying the farmer in their first steps when implementing these new practices. This is why we have invested in personal post-workshop consultations on farms. Basically, from the participants, those farms who decide to implement the learned practice can opt into an accompanying consultation that can help them put it into action and resolve any questions when they pop up during this process. This would conclude the short summary of activities we do in training and consulting work in Custodia Agraria. This is just one of the routes we take as we also take action by providing services and materials, product promotion and also working with the general public through volunteering and environmental education and other activities that we will explain in the following videos.