Conservation Talk Series | The Palouse Farm Journey: From Planting to Harvest
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dGWgmdboXZ0
Education
 Appreciate that. And thanks everybody for, for being here. Happy to have the invite and talk about what's I suppose one of my favorite subjects, which is generally just growing things. So, so with that, I will begin what I have prepared. And I'll also say that I should have said from planting to harvest and some of the things in between, because as I was doing this together, I realized I wasn't going to be able to talk about everything in between that's involved with everything in, in agriculture on the Palouse. So with that, we'll get started. So first some fundamentals and clarify clarification of terms in the Palouse, we have effectively two different cropping systems. We have annual cropping systems, which you have a crop on the land every single year. And then farther out West in the region, we have fallow cropping seasons. And that can, that can be crop fallow crop fallow type of rotation, which you have in a way out farther West and, you know, maybe the less than 12 inches of rainfall and in through central Washington and up North and South. And then you have sort of transitional zones that are still fallow cropping systems, but they'll usually be incorporating a three-year crop rotation of winter crop, spring crop, and then leaving a single season, a single year as fallow. And we'll talk about fallow as we go forward, but there, there are different types of fallow. And for anybody again, who doesn't even know what fallow might be, it's just letting the ground rest without a crop on it for, for the growing season. In our region, we, we do what's called dryland cropping, which has varying definitions, but generally defined as depending growing crops, depending entirely on natural precipitation with some definitions, including the additional caveat of less than 20 inches of annual precipitation per year. So in that context, we might not consider some places in the Midwest to necessarily be dryland cropping, even though they often are in many regions relying on natural precipitation. No-till or direct seed. These are terms that are generally interchangeable with some minor distinctions that aren't really worth getting into, but generally is the practice of planting a crop in a single field pass or operation. So that means that everything that is required to plant the crop in the soil is done with one implement and one single pass. So where was I? Conventional farming. Conventional farming is sort of something of a misnomer, to be quite frank. Conventional farming anymore these days is increasingly more no-till or direct seed type systems. But traditionally, conventional farming more or less refers to the practice of planting a crop in multiple field passes, which required multiple passes of tillage. So when generally when people speak of conventional farming, what they're referring to is lots of tilling, farming methods that incorporate tillage. Pesticide. This is a term that people often use somewhat incorrectly, to be honest. And these aren't dictionary definitions. These are all my definitions. So take them with a grain of salt. But generally, any product intended to exterminate an unwanted organism. And these can't. So that is to say that a fungicide is a pesticide. An insecticide is a pesticide. An herbicide is a pesticide. And then beyond that, not all pesticides are created equal. So when you see a sprayer out in the field, it's not the case that what they're spraying is necessarily bad. And a lot of times people are spraying products that are specifically designed to enhance the soil or the plant and aren't even necessarily killing anything. One example of these is can be seen in a third party certification that's kind of come to come in vogue called the Salmon Safe Certification. This is a third party certification that basically restricts some kind of farming practices and then has other requirements as far as conservation implementation. But they have a list of excluded herbicides, effectively, that they have determined by various means as being sort of the worst offenders. It's not exhaustive. But all that to say, not all herbicides or pesticides, for that matter, are created equal. Some are very, some are very, very soft on surrounding organisms. Some are very severe. And then tillage, generally just any soil disturbing activity. And we'll get more into tillage here later. And a lot of this here in the next, you know, throughout this time is going to be a lot of photos. And again, I can spend a lot of time talking about it, but I'll try to be quick because there are a lot of them. And we'll just give a broad idea of what's going on. And then if folks have questions during the slides or after the slides and want to go back, I'm happy to do that. So generally a year for a farmer will include actually this this image only had five squares. So I tried to limit it to five squares because that's what PowerPoint gave me. But planning, you know, generally is happening in after the fall through the winter months. And, you know, these will incorporate a lot of different activities, selecting crop varieties. So like maybe maybe pre-selecting your herbicides, given a lot of herbicides might have certain plant back restrictions, which means once you apply it, there's still chemistry that could affect subsequent crops. So planning your crop rotations, securing operating credit with your banker, budgeting. Maybe you've got grain still sitting around that needs to be marketed so you can help help with those upcoming crop expenses or operating expenses. Maybe you have leases that you need to manage that all need to be settled. So and then as, you know, as the season progresses, we folks will certainly be doing preparation. And a lot of times this will mean machine maintenance either in their own shops or a lot of people will bring machines to more corporate shops where they can pay to rent out shop time to work there. You might be and then as as the season progresses into the spring, you'll be doing some of your pre-plant tillage or spraying, depending on what kind of cropping system you operate. And then once that's done, of course, you're planting your crop and there's a lot of considerations there. How deep you're planting, what type of thing. Not all crops obviously are planted at the same depth. Are you going to put starter fertility down with it? Maybe you need to rent machines, rent a plant or a drill, as we call it here in the area. Or you want to have somebody can come in and plant your crop for you. That's a very common thing. And then also you're considering the timing at which you're going to plant. The next big thing that a farmer does throughout the season is spray. They're considering the rate method, timing, determining their pest pressures and and also analyzing economic thresholds. Sometimes you might have pests around that, you know, you might just live with because it'd be more expensive to treat them than it would be to to let them let them go. So you might change your herbicide selection at this time and you might add some foliar fertilizer here on top of your crop. And then, of course, as the summer progresses, we're getting into harvest. And that's most of you have all probably seen that happening on the landscape, I would assume. But, you know, a lot of there's a lot that goes into preparation for that as well. Most folks are hiring help truck drivers, combine drivers, tractor drivers, all kinds of things. And they might be leasing machines. Machines have gotten somewhat prohibitively expensive. And so you might not even own your machine, your combine, your harvester, and you might rent one from a local implement dealer for the season. And then, of course, you have to consider your storage, whether you're storing it at home. You might some folks have home storage that, you know, their own private grain bins or whether you're taking it to the to the co-op, you know, down the road. Or maybe you're taking it straight to the dam, the rivers down wherever, whichever might be closest to you. An example of this timeline. Now, this is I have to admit. So I'm from Endicott and I'm so a little farther out west in the county. And I grew up knowing more of the fallow systems. We're about 16 to 18 in train fall in a good year. In a bad year, we might be 14 or so. But in my area, we have generally a three-year cropping rotation, which goes to show, too, how diverse the Palouse region in particular is. You know, 30 minutes east and there's 20 inches of precipitation or more and they don't need a fallow season. And so they're growing a crop in every single year. But generally, these and this is the most this is the most involved slide that we'll have. But and I'll try to explain here because all of this is effectively you can see in many times happening concurrently. So when a farmer, a farmer's primary crop in the area is a fall crop and generally that's wheat. So I'm considering that effectively year one of a three year rotation. And that's generally the same for the annual cropping systems as well. So your fall crop, you'll start maybe a lot of folks will maybe get right after harvest and get out and start spraying their fields in preparation for or tilling their fields in preparation for the fall fall crop. And how much you're spraying kind of depends on how much work you might have been able to do in the summer up to that point. So August, September, folks are back out there right after right after harvest, starting their first field preparation to plant their fall crops. So I'll include spraying and then fertilizing and fertilizing can be done in different ways. And we can I've got some slides that show different methods for that as well. But generally, if you're a conventional system, you're doing some tillage before that. And then you're you're doing your fertilizer at some point, maybe with one of those operations or possibly with your seed or some combination of all of that. And so then you're planting your crop in the fall. September on the early side, some folks way out west can even plant their crops in August or or everything. Everything moves up in time as the farther west you go effectively. I see Larry Larry Cochran's in here with us. He's probably saying, he's probably thinking, you know, September. Yeah, right. Because there's a there's a lot of stuff farther east and, you know, Colfax area, Pullman area that, you know, folks are still cutting in September. Well, well into September and sometimes October after after that, you're doing some in crop herbicide, perhaps depending on the conditions. And all these certainly come with caveats. And, you know, you might not need to do in crop herbicide. Oftentimes at this time of the year, you'd be doing a pre emergent herbicide of one sort or another. And a pre emergent herbicide is different than, say, a topical or a systemic herbicide, wherein a pre emergent herbicide is designed to kill a plant, a seedling rather, before it even as it's sprouting effectively. So this is a good time to get at fall germinating weed species if you have that type of pressure. And then you're just washing it over the wintertime, of course, not much to be done at that time. As April and May come through, you're considering another round of in crop herbicide on your winter wheat. And that's generally typically required just because of various weed pressures. In our area, we have different weed pressures at different times of the year. So generally, you'll have weed pressure in the fall of various varieties. And then springtime will bring another flush of different weed pressures. So people are almost always out there spraying their winter wheat as one of the earlier applications in the springtime. As the summer progresses, June is usually a bit of a reprieve for everybody. You get to sit back and watch and see everything green up and grow and fill out that seed head. And also a lot of farm tours and conferences during this time, exhibitions during the month of June. And then also in June or perhaps earlier, you might consider doing fungicides depending on, again, various disease pressures. It's not always required. Some years are better than others. And oftentimes that'll be flown on by plane because the crop will be quite large at that point. And then, of course, July and August, as the summer gets quite deep and everything's hot, we're cutting. So a lot of that happens while the producer is also doing all the work to plant their spring crop. So imagine that you've got a field. Yeah, you've got a field and there's three different areas. A third of that is going to be in fall crop. A third of that is going to be in spring crop. And a third of that is going to be in my area. Again, this is sort of my region in fallow. So your fall crop's growing. You do all that work that I just described. And now you're doing your spring crop. And that can involve mowing or spraying your field after you just harvested last year's fall crop. So after the fall crop, you're planting your spring crop. You're going to have a lot of residue from that fall winter wheat or, yeah, that winter wheat crop that you just cut. So sometimes you'll have to remove that, burn it or something like this. And that can be done in the fall. And then often in the fall too, people will do what's called a chisel plow. And this is a specific type of tillage implement that does some minimal tillage. But what it does is it buries a lot of that residue in the soil to decompose over the winter, which helps the spring planting go a lot more easily without having to deal with so much of that trashy residue that can be difficult for your planting at the time. And then again, in March and April, you're doing your pre-crop herbicides that will usually include generally people around here are going out and they're spraying glyphosate over the field to kill all the weeds that came up through the winter. And then you're fertilizing or again, maybe that's going down with the time of planting. And then of course you're planting and you're proceeding with all the rest of the same, all the same things that you would do with your fall crop. And then your fallow, this will happen after your spring crop is harvested. So you'll have a little bit of residue there on the soil. And so you might be spraying your fallow starting August or September after you've harvested. And then you'll spray again in the springtime. Maybe you'll spray again, maybe you'll spray twice in the fall. Not generally, but you'll usually do one spray before the fall as conditions require. And then you're spraying in the spring and all through the summer. And so that's, that would be, that would be describing what's kind of a minimum tillage system where you're not necessarily planting in a single pass. You're, you've got a few passes. You're putting your fertilizer in with probably some sort of shank applicator. And then you're also doing maybe a fall chisel. And I, like I said, we'll, we can show you what that looks like. I think maybe this is a moment for questions. Are there any, anything in the chat or does anybody maybe want to shoot a question out on the mic? Okay. Implements. I love implements. I kind of, yeah, I, I, I'm, I'm, I'm kind of a hawk on auction sites and Craigslist and Facebook. And I just get really excited about implements because there's so, there's so, there's so many different things that people take such effort to design an implement to do. It's fascinating. And so this is just a whole smattering of different types of implements that, that exists. So here's a chisel plow. We've got moldboard plows. We've got sweet plows. We've got cultivators. That's actually a Colta weeder. You've got rod weeders. You've got flame weeders. You've got tine weeders. This is a harrow, a light harrow. You've got rotary harrows. You've got chain harrows. You've got, this is a vertical tillage implement that does vertical tillage plus a roller harrow on the back of it. You've got pole type ground driven sprayers. You've got self-propelled sprayers and drills, all kinds of different planting implements. That's a double disc drill. That's a single disc drill. That's a hoe drill. And so there's just a whole mess of different tools that people get to utilize. And it changes from region to region. And it's really fun for me, like when I'm driving out farther west, when they get into irrigated country, like Moses Lake and Othello, those kinds of areas, and go by the equipment lots and just point and stare and wonder what in the heck is that thing for? Because it's so foreign. Because their cropping systems are so different. And so the tooling is just completely foreign to somebody like me. But I find it very interesting. So we'll go into some of those. And most folks are obviously familiar with the plow, the moldboard plow. And tillages can be sort of reduced into a few different categories. We call it primary tillage, secondary tillage, and like final tillage. So your primary tillage is kind of the biggest earth moving implements that you might be using. And these are generally your moldboard plows and your discs. Everybody's familiar with that image. Nowadays, they're a lot bigger. And they take a lot of horsepower to pull through the soil. This is probably the most energy costly operation somebody can do. And it's probably the most deleterious to your soil as well. And we can talk about that if folks are interested. But certainly an implement that's very much falling out of vogue, I would say. It still happens. And there's a lot more of it up north in the Palouse region. But you don't see a lot of this happening. And certainly not nearly as much as happened, you know, in the last century. But it is still around. And so this is an example of what it looks like out in the field. Big, big, you know, burrows that are very visible. And usually in our area, this would be done on like a winter wheat stubble field where there's lots of that residue. And it might be very long. And you'll see long lines of straw sticking out of the ground. This is a disc. People often, one of my, you know, I said tillage is one of the terms I wanted to clarify. People often think of plowing as sort of anything that's being done in the field. And so that's not really true. A plow is a specific implement. And this is, I suppose, technically a type of plow. But it's more specifically referred to as a disc. And so what this is, is a series there of concave discs that are sort of set at an angle that are designed to do the exact same thing as a plow. It's digging into the, it's cutting into the soil and it's turning it and flipping it over and mixing it in. And this is a video of actually my own place. So, yeah, I do like our little farm down on the Palouse River. And this is, this is my, my handsome, handsome beast 2670 tractor from 1978. But it, but it runs just fine. So this is an example of what the ground will look like after the disc is pulled through it. It leaves it fairly rough. There's a lot of, you know, large clotting behind it. Most folks, or a lot of times people will drag, you know, harrows behind these to help kind of smooth that out. And possibly even reduce the need for an additional pass with the harrow separately. This is a field cultivator. A light shank, that coiled, coiled shank right here. You know, kind of, it's, it's not generally as deep of a tillage. And usually will happen after like a disking to sort of further smooth out that planting bed. And then this particular implement has the rolling baskets behind it, the roller harrows. Again, like saving an additional pass. This is a, another example of what the field would look like after a harrowing, or after a cultivator. And you can see the, the wider, the wider sort of burrows here. And it's less uniform than it would be after it finished the harrow. This is a chisel plow, a very stiff, very sturdy shank on this implement. This is designed to go fairly deep. Usually eight inches or more. And this is the implement that I was saying they would, they'll take through in the fall. And, and try to bury some of that residue into the soil. But without desiring to really just till the entire field. So you'll notice how far apart these shanks are. And so effectively what you have is, you know, a narrow area of tilled space. And then a hard ridge between the next tilled space. Where that, that piece isn't really being tilled much at all. So it's kind of a, it's a minimal tillage type practice. But of course, it's still tillage. And this is an example of what that looks like. So you can see that those really wide burrow spacings. And, and you know that this field isn't plowed. Because there's a lot of residue still on top. As opposed to being totally flipped under. And then these wide, these wide shank marks are again another telltale sign. And then we have our harrows. So this is the final tillage stage that somebody might do. That would be sort of the final smoothing of the bed preparation for, before you're doing the planting. And a lot of times this, this implement will be effectively attached to one of those other tillage implements to save the need to go clear around the field for a whole separate pass all over again. And you've probably seen this pattern out in the field frequently. If, if you, you know, if you're observing. And this is accomplished with a harrow. This would be, this would be in a no-till system. Where you're leaving all your residue on, on the field. And this would be the result of dragging the harrow through that field of, of straw. And then leaving these stark lines, these stripes in the field. And that's to just sort of knock down some of the residue, break it up, to help, help facilitate a cleaner planting process when it comes to it. And the way that they get these really straight lines is through GPS guidance system. Most, a lot of tractors, a lot of folks today, it's pretty common to have a GPS guided tractor. It's not always possible in every terrain and topography, but we can get away with a lot of it here. And this, again, is another example of, of a, of a harrowed field. So when you see a field that you're driving by and it looks very smooth, very, very uniform, that's, that's the result of, of that final tillage pass. And then, you know, so you're going to be doing some fertilizing and this can occur at different times in that operations of, in those operations of tillage. And a lot of times this mechanism, the fertilizing mechanism itself will be attached to one of those implements. So you might have a, you might have a cultivator, not like this necessarily, but you might have a cultivator that's rigged up with all kinds of fertilizer tubes that you can see on this, on this shank right here. This is the actual tube that's going to be connected to these bigger tanks. That's actually putting the fertilizer in the soil. Sometimes it's a standalone implement like this, like this green one behind the quad track here. And again, like I said, sometimes it's incorporated in one or the other of those other tillage implements. And then there are also spreader type fertilizer machines, not as common around here, but you see them every now and then. But this is, of course, spreading a dry material on top of the soil and then oftentimes incorporating it into the soil with, you know, a light, a light tillage implement like any of those we saw previously. And then we have planting and of course we have different types of planting, like I alluded to earlier, where you've got no till systems and conventional systems. This is a gentleman out in St. John area. I don't think he would have minded me take or using this photo. So this is an example of a no till system where they are, they are literally doing zero tillage except for whatever soil disturbance is happening with that drill. So that's a seed drill behind, behind the tractor there. And they will have cut that crop that I can't tell exactly that looks like probably a spring planting. There's some wheat growing behind it. So this looks like it's going into winter wheat stubble. And they're just leaving that stubble there and planting straight into it. And this is often the result that you would see with this. Lots of lots of stubble sticking up out into the out in the field looks a little ratty sometimes, sometimes more, sometimes less. But generally, you've got lots of that residue still on the ground, but you can clearly pick out the seed rows of, you know, growing crop. And then a more conventional type planter. This is what we call a double disc planter. And it's referred to the double disc because of this little wheel right here. It's actually two steel blades that kind of slice the soil open, drop the seed in. And then this press wheel or packer wheel comes in behind it and firms the soil down onto it. So this type of planter needs a bit more tillage, needs some kind of tillage generally in front of it. Because it just doesn't have the force to, the down pressure to put the seed into the ground with all the residue and then just the firmness of the soil. And this is an example down at my, my place, actually, you can, I, I'm not, I don't, I can't no-till at the moment because I don't have a no-till drill because they're very expensive. And we're tiny little farmers. But, so this is what I have to do for the moment, but you can see clearly the very distinct furrows there. And then we've got- I don't know what, like, the actual horsepower requirements are, but I would suspect that tracks are more efficient on, in horsepower. And they, they don't slide as much on, on slopes, whereas wheels, and they're also smoother to drive. And, you know, going over a lot of these tilled fields with, with wheeled tractors can be really bumpy. And, you know, it's like walking on the moon if you're driving a quad track would go over it. And the, yeah, so it's mostly a traction advantage to have the tracks as opposed to the tires. Okay. Well. Okay. So, yeah, spraying then is the last consideration that you'll do. These are some examples of the types of sprayers that are common out in the field. The one on the upper left is a, what we call a self-propelled sprayer, where there's a separate mechanism that can, they can be of different natures. That's spraying the, the, the mix out of the nozzles on its own. As opposed to the other one over here, I couldn't find a great picture of one. And I think this is a ground driven sprayer, wherein one of these wheels will have a gear on it that's got a chain on it that's connected to a pump that is providing the pressure to actually spray the material out of the nozzles. The one on the left has a lot more advantages than the ground driven one. And so the ground driven ones are, you don't see them quite as much anymore. Most folks will either have one of the self-propelled sprayers or often will hire that as a task to be done for them. And then of course we have the favorite time of year, which is harvesting. And so this is me and my little Jack in what is my newest piece of equipment on my farm, which is a 1982, I think, John Deere 6622. So that, and I think there's a little video here. I don't know if you guys can hear the sound on that. No, I'm not sure why that would be the case, but. So that's what it looks like from the inside of cab. Mine's a lot smaller than most people's. And a lot of these, a lot of these machines now are, you know, you, you've all seen them on the landscape. I would assume if you're in Eastern Washington or anywhere near, you know, 40 or 50 foot headers with, you know, just massive colossal machines. But yeah, so that's, that's kind of, of course, the, the broadest strokes of the operations that could happen in the field in our region here, raising annual crops.