Precision farming techniques - brought to you by AHDB Dairy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dk_viP-tktQ
Education
 Traditionally when we start to think about precision farming techniques we very much consider these as to be associated with the arable sector and over the last 20 or 30 years we've seen that sector develop techniques such as steering guidance for harvesting equipment and variable rate application of nutrients and of sprays and now we're certainly seeing these techniques being developed very much from the dairy for use in the dairy sector and increasingly we're seeing uptake of these techniques by dairy farmers our latest results show that about 10% of dairy farmers here in Britain are now using some form of precision farming technique most notably these are probably things like GPS guidance for fertilizer application but increasingly we're seeing a raft of techniques being developed for the sector now historically in arable systems these techniques have really been used to sort of save time save fertilizer save fuel by identifying variation in both nutrients in fields and variation in grass and crop yields in fields as well and when we start when we consider arable systems we really can see the level of variation in large arable fields now from a dairy farming perspective we actually quite often blanket treat a lot of our grazing platform or silage platform with the same level of nutrients and we don't really go into targeted individual feed management and some might argue that we actually don't need to on dairy farms but actually some of the latest dairy research that we've undertaken here within within Dairy Co and the study associated with SRUC in Scotland and Harper Adams over in Shropshire we have find out that the level of variation that we see in silage fields is significantly higher than what we would have imagined in that research study we have found somewhere between a level of six tons of dry matter per hectare to thirteen tons of dry matter per hectare difference in grass production over the course of the season for really what would appear to be a visually uniform field and that that was not binding is not alone and certainly we've seen similar results in Northern Ireland in research that's been done in silage fields there and we're seeing similar levels of variability in grazing platform results from New Zealand so we're seeing a significant level of variation there and there are a number of causes for this variation these can be done to things like soil in silage fields and in our recent dairy co study we've actually found out that tractor related compaction can result in a 35% reduction in grass yield so this can significantly impact and cause variability across the field. In addition to this nutrients is obviously a major source of variability within and between fields and actually some of the most worrying statistics that we've actually seen recently is 8% of our grassland fields across the fields across the fields across the fields across the dairy, beef and sheep sector actually are not at optimum levels for phosphorus and potassium. In addition to this actually only 18% of our fields and 18% of our grassland soils are at optimum levels for pH. Now we know that when you have too high a pH or too low a pH this can significantly impact on grass yields. We can see up to 30% reduction in yields. So again this is causing a significant level of variation across many of our fields. So can precision farming techniques really be used to help us manage this variation that we're now starting to see in dairy fields? Well certainly there has been very little independent research done to date on the use of precision farming techniques in dairy systems. However one of the latest studies that has just come out of New Zealand has shown that by individually managing dairy grazing paddocks as opposed to blanket applying fertilizers P and K. They have found that they can achieve savings of up to 5 to 7, between 5 and 7 thousand pounds per year by that targeted application. And certainly there is a role for techniques such as targeted soil analysis and using GPS guidance in dairy farms to help apply fertilizers. One of the recent studies that we have seen actually when we looked at the level of fertilizers application and the variability in it in grazing pastures is actually there is a 35% level of variation in the amount of fertilizer that is being applied. So 35% of the fiend is actually not getting the optimum level of fertilizer. And probably one of the most exciting areas that is now being developed specifically for the dairy sector predominantly and for grassland areas is the area of grass measurement. We are seeing a lot of new techniques being developed. We are seeing a lot of new techniques being developed. Techniques such as unmanned aerial vehicles, UAVs are now being developed across the globe. These are small micro light type drones that go up and actually take visual images of grass to get an idea of grass cover. We are also seeing techniques such as ultrasound and spectral imaging being developed to help us start to measure grass on farms. This is an area of research that Dairy Co have actually been quite active and been involved in in the last sort of six months or so in a study related to SRUC up in Scotland and taking place at Harper Adams University in Shropshire. And researchers there at both of these institutions are looking at new techniques, namely spectral imaging in the form of NDVI measurements and ultrasound techniques. And seeing whether these techniques offer possible solutions to help us measure grass in comparison to your traditional sword stick and platemeter measurements. Now NDVI measurements and spectral imaging really stands for near difference vegetation index. And actually how that actually works is a green and healthy grass plant with lots of chlorophyll will actually absorb a lot of the visible light that it receives from the sun. But it will reflect a large proportion of the infrared light that it receives. In contrast then a plant that is at an earlier growth stage that doesn't have the same level of chlorophyll or that is maybe lacking in nutrients and so is less green will reflect a large proportion of that visible light. And it will actually absorb a significantly higher proportion of the infrared light compared to the healthy plant. So what we're doing now is we have techniques that can measure how much of this light that these plants are absorbing. And we're trying to relate that to differences in vegetation cover and grass cover on farms. In addition we're also looking at ultrasound techniques which if you can imagine a depth sensor for fish on a boat it works in pretty much the same way. So basically what happens is a device sends down a sound wave from a given point and this may be attached to a cord, it may be attached to a stick but it's held above the grass. And what that will do, it will send down a sound wave and that sound wave once it hits the grass will be reflected back up again. And what the device will do is measure the difference in height between where it is and when it actually reaches the grass. And from that we can get an interpretation of what the grass height actually is and start to relate that to grass yield. So that study is taking place this year and we're about six months into it. And we have done measurements on a range of different feeds. We have plots that have been compacted, we have plots that have received different levels of nutrient application. So when we talked about the variability earlier and what's causing that variation of feed, we can now start to see how these techniques help us identify that variability and actually how they work in different scenarios. So really to include, when we're thinking about precision farming techniques, there is great scope for them to be used in the dairy sector. And it's really something that actually we're seeing a lot of new technologies and a lot of new techniques being developed. But if we are considering precision farming techniques on an individual farm, it's really important that we actually know what these techniques are going to be used for and how we're going to interpret the data out of them. One of the key advantages of these techniques is that they do supply us with information that is otherwise quite hard to collect or quite time consuming to collect. But on the negative side, they do obviously produce a large amount of data. So it's really important to know firstly, what data you're going to collect and why you're collecting it, how you're going to collect it and finally, how are you going to use that data? How are you going to interpret it and how are you going to make best use of it to advise and make decisions on your farm?