Soil biology for crop and soil health.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dlQjS67W3q0
Education
 Welcome to the September Soils Network of Knowledge webinar and thank you everyone for attending. Now I'd like to introduce Dr. Nikki Seymour. Nikki works as a senior soil microbiologist with the Queensland Department of Agriculture and Fisheries where her research focuses on soil biological processes in agriculture particularly those involving the beneficial soil microbes associated with crop growth and nutrition. Nikki is going to present on a subject that so many of our SNOK subscribers have requested and we have had a registration of almost 70 people and that sort of attests to the interest in this sphere of soils endeavour and today Nikki is going to cover an introduction to soil biology why it's important for crop and soil health with specific reference to the impacts agricultural practices have on soil biological components and how that might relate to crop productivity. Okay thank you Abi. Thanks everybody for tuning in today. Righto. So today I'm going to talk about soil biology a little on the management in our cropping systems and as Abi said a little bit about myself I work with the Department of Agriculture and Fisheries here in Queensland. I'm based in Toowoomba and I work a lot on the Darling Downs also the Southern Downs but do venture into New South Wales occasionally as well and my interest is beneficial microorganisms that aid crop nutrition and productivity. In particular I've looked at mycorrhizal fungi, rhizobia in our systems and how they impact on our nitrogen nutrition and also have a keen interest in the soil nematode communities because not all nematodes are bad and we'll talk about that in a little while. Most of them are really useful. Also as Abi said I've worked in broadacre cropping mainly in cereals and pulse crops. I've done a little bit in cotton and sugar cane as well but largely those crops that are grown here on the Downs. So cereals, wheat, sorghum, mung beans, chickpeas, those sorts of crops. So I'll get into my seminar and I just start with a quote because I love it. If a healthy soil is full of death it is also full of life. Worms, fungi, microorganisms of all kinds. Given only the health of the soil, nothing that dies is dead for very long. So it talks to me about the cycling processes that go on in our soils and how important microorganisms are for the health and the life of our soils. Wendell Berry is a US philosopher and writer but he captures in my mind a lot about the cycles that go on in our soils and are important to us. So firstly we're talking about soil health. What is a healthy soil? A soil's capacity to function as a vital living organism within ecosystem and land use boundaries, to sustain plant and animal production, maintain or enhance water and air quality and maintain plant and animal health. That's from Dr John Doran and Zais also from the States. But it talks here about how a soil's ability to be able to support the living system that it is but also it has boundaries around it. So a healthy soil is one that maintains I guess all of those issues, water and air quality. But really a healthy soil is also fit for purpose. So a soil can be healthy for one purpose in terms of growing crops. It may not be the best soil to have a forestry on or it may not be the best soil for horticultural crops compared to something like wheat or cotton. But it has its purpose and we can use that purpose to maintain the best soil that we can or the healthiest soil we can. Soils also have resistance. So they have an ability to resist change due to soil disturbance and also a resilience. We talk about its ability to recover from disturbance and a lot of that is due to the soil biology in the soil. The living component that can revitalise or resist those changes that are happening to it are very much linked to the soil biology in our soil. We know and you probably know that soil biology is extremely complex. It's a difficult thing to study. It's been the black box of many soil studies for a long time and it's mainly driven by organic matter inputs. So to keep our soil biology going and to keep the complex soil food web that we need there to keep our soils healthy we have to have organic matter inputs. It's all part of that cycle as we talked about at the beginning of the talk. Just really important to keep organic matter going into that soil and keeping the soil food web as broad and as diverse as we can make it. So there are some numbers there on the screen about estimates of microbial populations that have come from various literature but in one gram of soil that's equivalent of a dry gram of soil. Bacteria can be up in the billions. Ectinomyocetes, fungi all in the millions. There's algae, protozoa and that's just a small part of our component. So there are a lot of organisms and a person once said to me or someone who I respect in the soil biology field said that in a handful of soil there are more organisms than there are people on our earth. So we know that it's a very, very complex living organism. The whole soil structure is dependent on our biology and we know that it's very difficult to study because it has been difficult to get the tools to actually look at these organisms. Through traditional methods of plating and culturing and trying to extract things from the soil we've only been able to get about 10% of all the organisms. So we know that there's a lot more and we know that through DNA and molecular studies these days. There's a busy and messy slide I guess that talks about the soil food web and I do keep meaning to try and change that a little to make it look a bit better. But it also demonstrates that it is a very busy place in our soil and hopefully if your soil is healthy you've got lots of things that are going to be able to do. So at the end of the day you've got lots of all of these different groups of organisms that are working together or feeding off each other. They actually have a feeding pattern and we know that the more of these organisms we have the better it is and the faster all of those functions that are listed on that right hand side can happen. So there's lots of good things about having all these organisms in our soil. The main ones there are listed or grouped into categories of nutrient cycling, organic matter turnover, they help with soil structure, biology involved in disease transmission and control and then the last one there is agrochemical degradation which I'm not going to talk about a lot today. It's a whole subject in itself and there are projects working on that but certainly the soil biology are very important in integrating and changing the inputs that we put into our soils. The point that I really want to make is most of that whole soil food web most of those organisms are beneficial so we need them in our soils to actually carry out those functions. They're really important and the more organisms we have the better they are. We don't want to get rid of them and our whole aim in the research that I'm doing and in trying to make more productive soils the whole aim is to improve the numbers and diversity of soil biological components. So there's that list again of the soil biota that are important and I'm going to just sort of go through some of these. I'll start with nutrient cycling and organic matter turnover together because they are intrinsically linked and I'm just going to give a couple of examples from some stuff I've done. It's impossible to really talk about everything that goes on in our soils and there are books and books and books written on it as you would probably know. So nutrient cycling biology are involved in helping to add nutrients to the soil so they actually can increase our levels of nutrients for our plants and one good example of that is the symbiotic nitrogen fixing bacteria that we know about Rhizobia. A very good example of how these organisms actually add nutrients to soil or for our plants and they take it from the atmosphere in the soil and add them. They're also non-symbiotic bacteria and they also can fix nitrogen from the atmosphere and that aids them in their reproduction and when they die then that nutrient becomes available. So there's other organisms that transfer nutrients into available forms or facilitate their uptake by plants. So I'm grouping these into large groups. There are lots of different functions and just some examples there are nitrifying microorganisms. So we know the nitrifying bacteria that actually change the ammonias into the nitrates so that we can make them available for plants to be able to take them up. We have sulfur oxidizing microorganisms. Mycorrhizae are really important in most of our crops. Ninety percent of our crops need microorganisms and not just crops. We have horticultural trees as well and all our plants within our ecosystem. A lot of them are dependent upon mycorrhizae to a certain extent. Phosphorus and potentially other organisms, things like zinc, copper increased with mycorrhizae fungi in the system. There are organisms that solubilize phosphorus and actually take those off where they become attached to soils. And there are also organisms that can cause losses from our soils. So denitrifying microorganisms, the ones that actually change out our nitrate and it goes off and we lost from the system, particularly in wet, foggy situations. There are sulfur reducing microorganisms and I guess the whole point of it is a lot of the nutrients are cycled through the decomposition of crop residues as we know. So by adding our crop residues or keeping those on the soil surface we're increasing them. Just a little bit about rhizobia because this is one area that I've studied and it's one of the true examples of where an inoculant of a microorganism is a system. Adding that to a system of trying to grow a plant actually makes a huge difference and we know that we can add special groups of rhizobia depending on the host plant that we're trying to grow. We can add them and we can increase nitrogen in that cropping system by having these nodules functioning and working properly on our plants. They're fairly reasonably specific to the host plant so you do need to get the right type of nodules and a lot of the crops that we grow in Australia are obviously not native and so we need to add the inoculant because those rhizobia are not naturally occurring in our soils, the ones that actually make a difference. Some examples of how we can manipulate this in our management is things like growing chickpeas for example in our systems. We've studied the impacts of something like the row spacing of our chickpeas. So where we may increase our row spacing we actually found that we were reducing both the biomass of the plant but also this percent NDFA which is the percent of nitrogen derived from the atmosphere. So when we looked at a well nodulated chickpea crop we actually had a reduction in the amount of nodules and the reduction in the amount of nitrogen that was fixed as we went to wider rows in that cropping system given the same plant population. So theoretically they were the same number of plants accessing the same amount of soil but they actually were reduced in the amount of nodulation and nitrogen fixation. So by reducing our row spacing we can actually increase nitrogen fixation and we get a better result for our following crops as well as the amount of nitrogen that's feeding the chickpea crop itself. So we can use management to actually manipulate things but that's just one example of how rhizobia have been very important in our system and we are continuing to study them. I also have studied mycorrhizal fungi and just in the nutrient cycling space phosphorus and zinc in particular are very important for the crop plants and we know that different crops have different dependencies on mycorrhizal fungi. Particularly the pulse crops which have a less developed or less fibrous root system to access nutrients in the soil. They are very dependent on mycorrhizal fungi and so we can use different crop rotations to actually increase our mycorrhizal fungi in the soil through host cropping but also different crop practices such as using things like canola or canola or has fibrous root stem or having long fibrous fungi actually also can reduce mycorrhizal fungi significantly and that practice in that case then can have impacts on crops down the track that are much more dependent upon mycorrhizal fungi. So moving on to the third function of soils. We look at biology in terms of disease transmission and control and my work I said has really worked looked at trying to reduce the number of pathogens using other biology to suppress those pathogens. Pathogens are a part of the soil biology, they're part of the system but we want to actually reduce the impacts of them in certain systems and make that soil healthier for the crop that we're trying to grow. So increasing the biodiversity of soil really can, it has a possibility of increasing the agents that suppress those pathogens. So a soil, we have to remember that a soil that's healthy for one crop may not be healthy for another. For example there could be pathogens in that soil that aren't healthy, that may harm cotton but are not going to affect other crops. And barefellow is one that does reduce disease in general. However barefellow is not good for the biology and diversity of our soils. Larger organisms in particular nematodes, earthworms can play a key role in the transmission of diseases because they move things around on their bodies themselves because they're mobile in soils. But they can also be involved in the control. And I looked at different organisms within soils that may be able to suppress a parasitic nematode called root lesion nematodes. These are very damaging to wheat and chickpeas in particular in our northern region of, in the regions throughout Queensland and New South Wales. And I looked at other nematodes that may be able to reduce the presence of the parasitic nematode root lesion or pranolinkus. So these nematodes here on the right of the screen are showing, there's one head of a nematode here that you may be able to see and it's actually eating or trying to eat another nematode and in its large mouth part there are actually, these are predatory nematodes. You can see a close up of the head here and there are teeth within the mouth of these nematodes. So they're really quite aggressive in soils and they eat other nematodes. So the more we have of those is also a part of the whole soil food web and very important. When I surveyed soils in the northern region around in the south of Queensland and north of New South Wales, 77% of those soils have these predatory nematodes present. However, they're not in very high numbers particularly in cropping soils because the impacts of management have reduced them. So it's important to try and increase these larger nematodes and important nematodes in our soils. This one here, another type of nematode, it's its head here showing a fungal feeding nematode. So they actually do feed from fungi and so fungal networks can be reduced and if you have a large amount of a particular pathogen that's grown in the soil these nematodes may reduce that as well. However, they're not very specific and they eat all types of fungi. You can see in this photo there are some different organisms attacking. They're actually fungi that are nematode trapping type fungi that actually grow on the outside and parasitize other nematodes. And here are some fungi that are forming loops and actually making a difference by killing the nematodes. So this graph just shows where I have actually taken some soil from a property near Billabilla which is near Gundawindi in Queensland and the soil here we heated the soil to remove the biology and this was either from the 0-15cm layer or the 30-45cm layer. Most of our soil biology we find in this top layer. And where we heated that soil and removed the biology we were able to recover a certain number of parasitic nematodes. After adding some in we pulled some back out and we found these nematodes were there. Where we didn't heat that soil however and we left the biology intact as it was in the field we actually were able to reduce significantly the number of parasitic nematodes that were still alive in that soil. So having biology present reduces the number of live nematodes. They were still there the parasitic ones but not as high a numbers as where we got rid of the biology. And deeper in that profile where there was less biology there was a slight or more increased number. Still significantly different from having no biology but less biology meant more of the parasitic nematodes. So there's a suppressive effect happening in that soil due to the biology. We call that a general suppression but it could also be related to all of those organisms that I talked about in the last slide as well as plenty of others that have activity to reduce pathogens in our soil. There's more work going on in that area as well. One other one is that soil biota are important for soil structure. We know that they can help to bind our soil together in certain ways. Fungi actually running through and keeping our soil pads together and making a larger structure. Other organisms like mycorrhizal fungi actually exude an exudate that it's called glomalin or glomalin and it sticks small particles of soil together so they're able to make a much stronger structure in our soil and keep that soil from eroding or washing away. So it's much better to have a much more active community of biology there as you can see. And it's not only the fungi that are important but bacteria as well. And then there's also the importance of things like earthworms through our soils that really make a difference to allow water and nutrients to flow through our soils and be moved around and all those sorts of things. So really important in keeping our soil structure going. I'm just going to touch briefly on some management effects. I have done that a little bit in the past slides but one big one of the things that we do in our soil, we till our soil, we have to disturb our soil to do different things to it, certainly to grow crops. But tillage really does have an impact. It changes soil temperature, moisture, organic matter inputs and it changes where they're distributed. So it impacts on biology. In some cases that can be a beneficial impact that the tillage may actually change where that organic matter is and we can increase numbers a little bit in some places. However the best, in general, the best scenario is where we have stubble retention with zero tillage. That's much more important because disturbance really does reduce biological numbers by exposing them to air, drying out. Then we get a much reduced biological activity and level of biology in our soil surfaces. So stubble retention keeps our surface cooler, allows much more water infiltration and zero tillage also reducing that disturbance. Keeps our networks together and fungi and really important in keeping soil biology much happier. It does, however, stratify our organic matter and the microbial activity that is kept in the surface as I said. So 70% of our populations are in that top 10 centimetres, about 65% of the activities. And this can have impacts on changing where that biology is obviously. If most of the pathogens are working deeper in our soil, for instance root lesion nematodes, can go right down to 60, 80 centimetres in our soil. Then the biology can't get to them because there isn't the amount of activity that we need to actually suppress those organisms. And so they basically have a bit of a free rein down there. There are some organisms around roots and we know that it's not a total desert but the activity is much more reduced down deeper in our soils. So we can make a huge difference by changing, diversifying our inputs can diversify our biology as well. But it also changes the hosting ability. So there are many different pathogens, mycorrhizae and we need to look at what rhizor's food bacteria might be there. All those things can change that community and what that soil food web looks like and then how it functions. Fertilisers or other amendments can make a difference. In general they increase plant growth which increases organic matter which can increase our soil biology. So in general they are good things. We want to put beneficial organisms. We do know however that there are some fertilisers that in the zone of application can have impacts of reducing biology. But the literature suggests that generally the impacts of fertilisers in reducing biology are short lived and they do the redundancy and the actual resilience of our soil biology means that those components come back fairly quickly and we're able to grow better crops because of fertilisers or amendments and we can then improve our biology because of the increased organic material that's going back in there. More roots, more tops that are not taken off. So it's a good thing. Pesticides we also know that make a huge difference and I said that biology can degrade agrochemicals but pesticides can have negative impacts on our biology as well. There is a project within New South Wales DPI looking at the impacts of herbicides, particularly residual herbicides but also glyphosate on some of the biological functions in our soils. And so it's a bit of watch this face to see where that data or what that data shows but we are looking seriously at how the components of our biology are positively or negatively impacted by the use of herbicides in particular. Insecticides and fungicides when they get on soils can have impacts also on our soil biology if they're not reaching the target organisms on the actual plants or if they're also hitting non-target organisms. So definitely can make some difference and insecticides in particular are quite nasty. So we can have huge impacts on biology if we're overusing those products. Just wanted to show one example of some data from earthworms and this was at Hermitage Research Station, a long term trial and we could see that tillage and stubble management were really important in increasing the number of earthworms within that soil and a huge increase where we've got zero tillage and stubble retained. They're 54 versus the mechanical tillage stubble burnt treatment making only nine earthworms in the system. So there's a big difference just by changing our management practices and you may well have seen that in turn trying to increase earthworm numbers. Tillage is a major issue. Some photos here that were actually from Gupta-Vatukatu from South Australia but they do show that microbial composition can be influenced by stubble retention. So here we've got an electron micrograph here of some soil particles with very little fungal organisms running through them and this is where tillage was used to incorporate residue. So there's a much faster decomposition and nutrient mineralisation of that residue, faster growing populations it often tends to be more bacterial dominant than fungal because the fungal hyphal network has been damaged due to that tillage. As a result there's poorer aggregation, less soil organic matter increase or build up. Whereas here you can see a lot more fungi running through and across the soil particles and binding that soil together. This is where we've just had the residue left on the surface and no tillage to incorporate it. So it does make a difference and there are several examples of where tillage has been negative to fungal populations including mycorrhizal populations in a fallow situation. So in summary soil biological communities are very complex and there's lots of books and lots of research going on but we're really just still scratching the surface so to speak. We do know that organic matter drives the community, the actual structure of that community, the make-up of that community and it's important to keep feeding our biology by adding more organic matter into our soil. Making sure that roots are able to, you know that we've got plants growing when we can, keeping roots in the system and that the tops are left on, we're not removing organic matter if we don't need to. Soil biology is very important for those five things, nutrient cycling, organic matter turnover, disease transmission and control structure of the soil and the degradation of chemicals. We know that farm management practices impact our soil biology and our research really aims to try and minimise those negative impacts, particularly of pathogens as well and maximise the beneficial biological activity in our soil so that we can improve our crop productivity. And that's the end of my seminar. Thank you very much, Nikki, for that really great introduction to what is a very large and complex area of study like I said before. We have one question already, so there's one person that's quick off the mark which is great. The question is from Lisa Lobreda Bruin and Lisa asks Nikki, how do we increase numbers in biodiversity in soil and which practices would encourage greater activity? And then what's your view on combining livestock and cover crop for soil biology? Thank you for your question, Lisa. Okay. Okay. So increasing numbers of diversity. I touched on it really briefly but really I guess we talk about having a crop in the system as much as possible. And that might be a plant or it could be a pasture plant. So we know that pastures make a huge difference in the biological activity and ultimate health of our soil and carbon numbers, carbon values in our soil. So having a root system there as often as possible or as much as possible, it's turning over, the roots are dying and growing new ones. And we're getting a lot of food going out to the biology through the root exudates but also in the sloughing off of dead roots and all of that sort of stuff. We have plant material that's dropping on the surface. All of that can increase the food that's available for soil biology. The diversity comes in using different amounts or different species in that system. So we know that we need not only carbon but to feed our biology we need nitrogen and phosphorus and all those other nutrients to feed the biology themselves. So high carbon level plants and not enough nitrogen can actually starve our system and we need to get more nitrogen into that system for those biology to keep turning things over. So that's important as much diversity in the cropping as you can so that the diversity in the biology is increased. So it's all about food source. Combining – the other bit was combining animals. Yeah livestock and cover crops. Yeah. Yeah. So I think it's fantastic for soil biology if we can do that. I don't see – there are very – on certain soils there could be impact from trampling etc. But the more we can increase the actual amount of cycling of nutrients and the forms that those nutrients are getting onto our plants the better. Cover crops are fantastic because they are actually leaving something on the soil keeping roots in the system when otherwise that soil might be fallow and that's not beneficial for biology at all. So I don't see an issue with combining animals and cover crops if the farmer is geared up to do that and able to do that. I think it's a great thing. Okay. Thank you. Thanks for the question Lisa. We have another question from Janice Biala and he said that he's interested to know what the cutting edge science I guess in this area is at the moment. Would you like to comment on that? Okay. So in terms of agricultural production and soil biology the area has really gone into the molecular studies of trying to look at functions within the soil. Not just I guess looking at what are the organisms but in functional groups. So the latest soil biology initiative that GRDC ran looked at how we can use molecular techniques to have a look at the profile of the community particularly profiling differences in what might be a suppressive soil or one that doesn't seem to be conducive to disease versus one that is and so that having a look at those profiles and seeing what the differences are but also looking at the whole nutrient cycling what genes in biology are turned off or on in terms of their whole activity and how they are in a system what impacts things like adding a fertiliser may do to a biological community in terms of suppression of genetic function and having a look at how we can potentially trigger or retard the actual cycling of nutrients or the change in our biological community. So a lot of that stuff in terms of the whole nutrient cycling processes looking at can biology be manipulated to I guess to trigger the whole processes, different processes within the nutrient cycling itself. So that's one big area but there's a whole heap more not only in suppression. There is a lot of interest obviously in the impacts of pesticides, herbicides, on soil biology and are they making differences because we have said well there are some small differences but the literature generally shows that things come back, they bounce back but longer term how are we impacting things and you know is it a downward cycle or spiral that's eventually we're going to get to the bottom if we keep going with some of the herbicides or some of the pesticides we're using. There's probably a whole heap more stuff going on and I guess some. That's actually a good point for me to step in because we have two other questions that sort of interleave into what you said quite nicely. There's a comment here from Lucas van Sweeten and Nicky he said that there's a general feeling that increasing microbial activity or biomass is beneficial and he has questioned whether that's the case should we be more focusing on that specific functionality that you mentioned about rather than the wide biodiversity. Would you like to comment? Yes I think we do have to do look at functionality and you're right we need to make sure that what well what are we trying to achieve in the situation why are we trying to look at the function of this soil what are we trying to get to in the end what are the important components in that I still believe that in general microbial biomass the more we have then in terms of the wider suite of organisms that are operating in that system the less or the more chance we have of being more resilient in that soil so there's lots of different things. There are redundancies in the function so some organisms can take a over other functions that we may have thought were predominantly just one type of organism but there are other organisms that take that over we don't. So there is some sort of redundancies in that and maybe that's I think that's what Lucas is saying well we really want this sort of function to happen so we need to concentrate on trying to increase that. I think that's what we need to do. I think that's what we need to do. I think that's what we need to do. I think that there's a real benefit of having more biology in the system than less definitely and more diverse biology because they can co-exist quite happily and they do so get as many as possible and try and if one function does get knocked out then you've still got some back up there. Yeah I suspect what you say about diversity and its relationship to resilience in systems is very important and will continue to grow in importance particularly in Australian agriculture with things like climate change so I think that's a good thing to think about. The other question we had that kind of links to what you were saying before is from Lindsay Johnson and Lindsay was more specifically interested in what the effects are on soil biology from glyphosate and how long those effects last. Mick Rose is on today and I might see if he's happy to answer that because that project that Nicky mentioned earlier is the one that Mick and Lucas are running so they might be in better place to comment on that. Can't get the microphone working. Okay. Do you want to just what I might ask you both to do then is to type something in I can read it out if you're happy to do that for the rest of the audience because I know that there's there is quite a lot of interest in that chemical specifically. Mick's written a short comment but also quite correctly pointed out that if people are interested in the specifics of the questions around glyphosate and the project that he and Lucas and Nicky actually are involved in that there have been two webinars on that. And one is at the DPI YouTube channel and the other is with me so if you're interested in the second one you can contact me otherwise you can have a look at the DPI YouTube channel. And there's been two papers that have been published about that. One which was a look at the metadata on work that has been carried out in the past and then some survey work that Mick's done out of that project with specific reference to glyphosate and I think and I'm happy to pass those references on to anyone who would like them. They just need to get in contact with me or Mick if you have that contact. So the short answer he said is that there's been numerous publications over 20 that he knows of and including all sorts of ways of looking at things in terms of soil biology and the effects of different agricultural chemicals and very few have found any significant effects which is sort of what Nicky said that there's an immediate effect and then the soil biology seemed to bounce back but that work is going on and they're also looking at the breakdown products of some of those chemicals and their persistence in the environment and their effect on soil biology. If anyone needs any more information I'm happy for them to contact me. Luke has a question about the biological products on the market and how effective they are in relation to maintaining building soil biology. Luke has a question about the biological products on the market and what the biological products are in relation to the soil biology. So generally the products that are on the market that people are able to add have limited effects on what we think is crop growth or productivity. There are some specific targeted ones. And one product is of course Rhizobia monoculum which makes a huge difference. There are others that are mixed in, other products that are out there that are more just general biology and they are adding organisms to the soil. However if your soil is ticking along and quite functional then potentially you don't need those organisms or those organisms don't actually last very long in the soil because they haven't come from that environment in the first place. So my advice I guess with the products, I'm not dismissing any of them but my advice is really to do some test strips. Have a look on your farm, buy a small amount of the product initially and do some strips in one paddock where you've got the product and you don't have the product. Monitor and measure those strips so you can get a good handle on whether they are actually making a difference. It should be that, I mean the soil paddock history is really important that it is uniform or it is actually within the area that you're testing that you've got the same paddock history. So you've had the same crops or the same fertiliser history, the same impacts of tillage or whatever. So that that's not going to make the difference that you can really just test those two products side by side and test that one product without the other. Two strips that make a difference that you can actually then monitor and measure that and show for yourself whether you think that's making any difference. Usually the mycorrhizal products that I've seen haven't been able to add enough of the inoculum of mycorrhizal fungi compared to what you could build up with a good crop of mycorrhizal fungi actively working within a system. So if you've got a good host for mycorrhizae, something like wheat or a sorghum crop that actually hosts it really well and then you build up the mycorrhizal fungi then you shouldn't have an issue or need to have to add mycorrhizal fungi, those sorts of things because the numbers will far outweigh what you can actually add from a bag or a bottle. So I think the whole thing is to give it a test and see if it really does make a difference. Convince yourself first before you go and spend a lot of money on product. That's a nice answer. I think also there's perhaps a tendency to think about products the same way that fertilizers are thought of and you're adding ingredients to a cake whereas soil biology is much more sort of, well it's an ecology isn't it? Yeah I agree and some of the organisms really not necessary for our soils. If they made them it may not be important at all or make a lot of difference in there. They may make some difference but I think you've got to add a lot more of them compared to managing your soil in a way that's keeping as much organic matter on the surface of your soil as you can and trying to improve the soil health in other ways other than just adding a product in to try and fix it. There's another question here from Bede Omara and Bede asks what are Nikki's thoughts on the effectiveness of biological catalysts being added onto traditional fertilizers. Did you want to add anything more to what you just said previously Nikki about that? Bede Omara and Bede Omara and Bede. Bede Omara and Bede. I haven't done the studies, I haven't tested them myself but I do feel that there's some merit in it. I think that we can make a difference in triggering or holding onto our fertilizers a bit longer or triggering when we're actually breaking them down. So I think that there are some things that can make a difference in that space and I haven't done the research and I think it's still evolving and still coming out but I think that it's worth pursuing to look at timing of release of different nutrients for crops and not – yeah, trying to break those nutrients into being plant available at the right times when the crop needs them, that there's some great merit in it but I haven't got any specific things that I could say on it yet and I haven't done any of the testing myself. Is that okay? Yep, no that's good. Thank you very much. Thanks Bede for the question. So a similar thing from Lindsay Johnson and he's asked specifically about things like kelp and fish hydrolysate and what impact do they have on soil biology? Okay, so I think obviously there are an amendment to the soil that adds – adding both nutrients as well as some organic material into the systems are going to make a difference. As long as those differences aren't things like – that are hugely saline in their application so that you're not changing the EC of soils that could affect crop growth. So then – or biological components could be affected by things like the saline components or the pHs of soils, all of those things. So as long as they're not altering that environment dramatically or as – you know, they're in a soluble form that's then able to – they're basically adding a nutrient into that system that can then be utilised quite effectively and so that there are useful amendments. And I guess is there also some argument to say that if the application of a product like that will drive a spike in the growth of a population if you like in soil biology but then that's not backed up by more incoming product to maintain that then it can collapse? Perhaps. Certainly, yeah. If there's not the product that keeps coming then whatever it was that responded to that, built up to that will go back down again. Usually it doesn't disappear altogether but there are spikes in populations with the addition of those nutrients or those specific amendments. So yeah, it's going to make a difference momentarily until there's no more product and then it's gone and then they've got to find something else. So it's about maintaining levels I guess. Yeah. But I again haven't looked at those specific products. Yep. Okay. Thank you. And we've got another question here from Salina Miller who says, does soil moisture or the ability to irrigate crops have an effect on soil biology? Yes, it does. Significant impact. Can be a positive or a negative impact if for example flood irrigation can definitely change the soil biological community and depending how long that soil is flooded for then there can be big changes in the community because a lot of the organisms are aerobic and need oxygen in their system. So flooding tends to tip that the other way to an anaerobic system and depending on how long that lasts. However irrigation keeping soil moist certainly makes a difference to biology but because it's making also a difference to the amount of root growth you've got in your soils, the amount of crop production and the amount of organic matter that's available to the biology so all of that makes a difference as well. So irrigation is generally more supportive of the soil biology as long as it's not knocking out a lot of the organisms by making that an anaerobic system. Yeah. Okay. Thank you. Well the other question that Luke had which I thought would be helpful for everyone listening is where is a good place to go for other references or other resources, more information on soil biology, what would you recommend? There are multiple textbooks out there. I guess the thing is to look for is are they reputable researchers, have they done, you know, got a lot of experience in that case but there are a few that I'd recommend. One more recent one that was put out by Graeme Sterling, Helen Hayden, Tony Patterson, Marcel Sterling called Soil Health, Soil Biology, Soil-Born Diseases and Sustainable Agriculture. Just a very broad brush initially of soil biology but it does have some good examples of suppressiveness of organisms, of the usefulness of organisms. It has great examples through cropping, horticulture and sugar that I can see and a few other things. So it's a general guide, he's called it, a guide to soil health and an introduction. So it could be a useful one to be able to get some great background knowledge and there is some obvious research results and some case studies and things included in that. There's a couple of others but one's called Soil Biological Fertility edited by Abbot and Murphy from Western Australia but was from a conference proceedings. So there's a few good books out there about those sorts of things. There is one other question that I missed and I apologise for this, Sonia. Sonia had a question around herbicides but she says that no-till means using herbicides instead of tillage for control of weeds and things like that. Is there work being done on alternative systems that don't require the herbicides? I.e. how is this dependence on herbicides being addressed? Can you comment on that? Yes. The whole thing is that yes we recognise that no-till has put such a reliance on herbicides and now we have a lot of resistance weeds out there because of that as well not just other impacts that it could be having in the system. So and hence the project that Lucas and Mick are on with me and that whole no-till system definitely swung that whole pendulum that way. There are certainly now research projects looking at a much integrated weed management system which has been very broadly publicised that one I guess the reliance on not just one group of herbicide but using different types of herbicides but other projects have evolved using you know harvest seed destructors all those sorts of things. Dare I say burning of weed seeds. I don't really advocate burning in terms of in our systems but there are ways of reducing weed seed numbers and weed seed banks in soils that several people are looking at. Mulching those sorts of things as well can make a difference and then we're also looking at things like crop competition to reduce the impact of weeds in our system but to reduce them getting to head and seed banks and all those sorts of things. So there's lots of projects going on around weeds and reducing the reliance on herbicides and then I guess within our project we're looking at those types of herbicides as well. That's the one where we're looking at the impacts of herbicides on soil biological components and do they really make a big difference. There's a bit of watch the space sorry. And a final question from Lindsay Johnson says how long can fungi spores and bacteria last in the soil in adverse situations e.g. waterlogging? Spores last longer than hyphae and certainly last longer than bacteria in adverse situations in adverse situations. There are so many different types of fungi and different types of spores they have different structures in the way that they do last. And some of them can – are quite able to be – to last quite a long time, not broken down as quickly, particularly sclerates and harder walled type fungi. So it depends on what type of fungus you're looking at and certainly the spore form is much more able to resist changes even in things like drying as well or heat compared to the other forms of the organism. So it's a bit of a how long is a piece of string but it can be years I guess that spores can last in soil for multiple years. And they can be broken down in certain situations but I don't know. Other than that it depends on what structure you're looking at. One last question and I think then we might have to call it a day. It's good to get lots and lots of questions and comment. Lisa Lobridge-Burns asked about what test farmers can do to examine their soil biology which is a good question. Yeah it is. There are still not a lot of places to go to look at different biological components of the soil and they're not all available. There are some in the pipe work I guess but there are certain laboratories I guess it's about going into a search engine and trying to find out what they offer. A good place to start is looking at organic carbon levels in soils, organic matter that's going into your soils but also then looking at microbial activity. What's the activity like not just the microbial biomass itself so there may be a lot of biomass but is there a lot of activity around that? Is there turnover in the carbon that's happening because of that so respiration in your soils? And there are labs available I think through Southern Cross Uni there's one but also there are some private labs. Graham Sterling who wrote that book does have a private lab called Biological Crop Protection but they have limited different tests that they can do as well. There are a few out there that would have a look but there are some coming online through the Sadi Predictive B service in that we're trying to not only look at the pathogens in that service that show up what are the bad guys in our system but we're looking at having some soil health indicators in terms of the large nematode community groups and I didn't go into that a lot but looking at the structure of the nematode community can tell us a lot about the biological community in general because we have different feeding groups within the biology or within the nematode community sorry. The different feeding groups can be an indication of the different levels of different biological groups in there so fungi versus bacteria for instance versus other nematodes versus protozoa or those sorts of things. So we can actually look at those as well and another thing to not forget about in our biology are things like the earthworms, the larger organisms that are there, mites and they're really important also in the whole process so you can look at numbers of those sorts of organisms as well. However there are not a lot of services, labs, some labs do those things, not a lot. Yeah and Lisa said aren't nematodes difficult to identify, it's my understanding they are and that's the kind of thing that you would get a lab to do, you'd have to have someone who had special skills wouldn't you? Yeah that's right, nematodes are, I mean they can all look pretty similar under a microscope, then you have to go very much closer into the mouth parts and the top of the shapes of the gut and the shapes of their tails and all sorts of things. There are a lot of nematodes out there. You can broadly group them and then you can go a lot further into identification as to what their functions are as well. And I think the thing is that you do need to be, if you're interested in this, you do need to be, have an awareness of what the organisms are doing and the function that you're wanting them to carry out and take it from there because I mean essentially I guess that's why most people are interested in it. Yeah I do agree and so that sort of goes back to Lucas' comment and point that it's not just about having, you know, making sure you've got enough protozoa or enough nematodes or enough of these in your soil at a critical level because I don't really believe that we know what all those critical levels are yet or how they make a big huge difference. It's about knowing what functions you want to carry out in that soil or what really, you know, are they hugely skewed one way that is making a difference to the function of your soil. Well actually I think it's probably good to mention here something that Luke and I were talking about the other day that, you know, and quite a simple way to make sure in terms of rhizobia that things are as they should is to examine the nodules on your legumes and a lot of people still fail to do that and just assume that because they're growing a legume that that functionality is occurring and it may not particularly if the legumes are not well fed with their other nutrients. So that's really important to look at as well. Yep. It's good to dig up soil. Yeah, that's right. And that's a very simple one. So you can do that. Alright, I might call that to a close. It doesn't look like there's any more questions. I hope I haven't missed anyone. Thank you very much everyone for the really good questions and thank you very much Nikki for presenting. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Bye-bye.