PLANT BOOKS FOR QUARANTINE! These are my favourites right now 😊
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DmAoqJ9Z8HQ
Education
 Hi my friend, I hope that you're doing well. Today I wanted to share with you books that go a little bit deeper into our relationship with our plants and how this relationship can help us feel a little bit better and understand a little bit more about our personal journey. So this is a great introduction for the first book which is this one right here. This is called The Well-Guarded Mind and it is by Sue Stewart-Smith. I can tell you I just started reading this book and I had to include it in this list because I feel that this book is written for our times. The book is really about how gardening can help you heal. And she goes over different stories, for example she talks about her grandfather who was in World War I and how gardening really helped him deal with some of the things that he felt after the war. I think it is a beautiful book and I can tell you in this times it's really helping me just navigate what I'm feeling and really understand how the relationship with my plants can really help me also understand the relationship with myself. So for this times I would really recommend this book. The second book is one of my favorite plant books and this one is Root Nurture Grow. So I had to include this book, I've included it in my last video as well and this is because this book is really inspiring and what I love about it is that it's not the typical plant care book. They actually focus on a specific topic which is propagation. And now that we're more at home I think it's the perfect time to propagate our plants and experiment with them. Especially now when spring is around the corner. This book is one of my favorites and it is because of many different reasons. First of all, it's a beautiful book. I can tell you the pictures in this book really inspire me to try out different propagation methods just to see how they look around. And it's not beautiful only aesthetically but also beautifully inspiring. Every chapter or section with each method for propagation begins with a quote that really puts more meaning into what we're doing. For example, I love the first quote in the chapter called Beginning that says, One of the strange things about living in the world is that it is only now and then one is quite sure is going to live forever and ever and ever. From the secret garden. And that is all true because as we propagate our plants, our mother plant is living forever and ever and ever. And another thing that I find so beautiful about this quote is that it can be true in so many levels. For example, the love that we put in our mother plant and then in the following propagations can continue to live forever and ever and ever. This is especially true when we give the new plants to our friends or family and then they continue to live and spread the love. Another thing that I love about this book is that it explains each propagation method step by step. So it is very easy to follow. And for each one of them it gives you the materials that you need, it also includes pictures so it's easier to follow along. And it gives you the best plans for this specific method. Which takes me to the third thing that I love about this book. And this is that it includes a plant table with many common house plants and it tells us which method is best for each of these plants. So if you're planning to learn a little bit more about propagation or you want to try it a little bit more this year, I would strongly recommend this book. So if you have followed me for a long time, you know that there is one book that I always recommend for plant beginners. And this one is called How Not to Kill Your Houseplant. This is one of the first books that I bought as a plant beginner. This one I actually bought two years ago. And I always recommend it because it's not so intimidating to start. It includes more than 100 plants and these plants are really common house plants. And what I love about this book is that it has pictures of each plant. Sometimes we buy plants and we don't know the names of the plant. So you can just look at the pictures and see which one is your plant. And then it gives you important tips about this specific plant and how to take care of this plant. Which is pretty useful. Now, if you want to go a little bit deeper and learn a little bit more about your house plants, you can get this one right here. This one is called The Houseplant Expert. So this book is very similar to this one. But this one goes a little bit deeper and it has way many more plants. This is basically the encyclopedia of house plants. One thing about this book is that it was published in 1991. So it has many common house plants, but it's not going to have the newer trends. For example, the Stephania erecta or the Pilea peppermiores is not included in this book. But still, it has many of the common house plants and a lot of information on each one of them. The last book that I'm reading I find so interesting because as you may know, I studied history and this actually combines botany and history. And this one is The Secrets of Great Botanists by the Royal Horticultural Society. This book goes over the lives of 35 botanists that really revolutionized the study of plants. So it's really inspiring. Another very cool thing about this book is that for each botanist it includes a section that is called Inspiration for Gardeners. And this section includes observation opportunities or ideas that we can apply today. And these ideas are related to what they discovered or what they observed in the past. Which I find so amazing because then we can understand a little bit more why we call a plant the way that we call them or just how we got here to our relationship with plants. I think it's a very inspiring book and very interesting. So if you want to explore a little bit more and you like history and botany this book would be great for you. Okay my friends, if you are reading any other plant books make sure to comment below. I would love to see what you're reading and of course I can tell you that the whole community will appreciate it. I hope at least one of these books helps you get through these difficult times as it has helped me. I'm sending all of my positive energy to you and as always I will see you in the next one. Okay, ciao!