How to Cut Hay with the Agri Supply® Drum Mower
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DOSWscyxcTI
Howto & Style
 Hey, I'm Kuehl with Agri-Supply. Buying the right hay mower can sometimes be frustrating. You may be looking at other style mowers. In order to help you make the best decision for your small farm, today we're going to discuss the drum mower. What is a drum mower? Basically, it's a simple design hay mower. It could be an alternative to a disc mower or even a sickle mower. This side drum mower has no belts that might come off or need replacing. It's constructed of two drums with four blades per drum for a total of eight cutting blades per unit. A standard drum mower has two counter-rotating drums that are powered from a gearbox above. Each drum is essentially a cylinder of 10 to 14 inches in diameter and a length of 15 to 24 inches with large discs attached to the bottom that contains the blades. It also has easier access to bearings and other internal parts that may need replacing down the road. A hydraulic connection from the tractor is not required for the drum mower. Is the drum mower right for your small farm? Well, it's less expensive than, say, a disc mower. And it's also easier to maintain. It works perfect in a compact or subcompact tractors. Lastly, it has an easy transport feature. By simply removing this bracket with the two quick pins, removing this PTO shaft also with the two quick pins, the mower will pivot right back here and run right behind the tractor, making it safer for you to travel down the highway or enter property with narrow gates. One thing we want to mention is for you to be cautious out in your field for those old stumps or old fence posts because this mower is not designed with a breakaway system. As always, be sure to read and understand the product manual before operating. And there you have it. Thanks for joining us today to learn more about drum mowers. To see more about drum mowers, hay rakes, hay tatters, and our many other products, visit us locally or shop online at agrisupply.com. Agri Supply is what's inside.