KRATKY HYDROPONICS - THE BEST LOW COST SYSTEM!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dPWb8s3eu_A
People & Blogs
 And welcome back to another hydroponics video. If you haven't seen any of my videos before I muck around with hydroponics, with aquaponics, different systems, solar pumps, no pumps which is going to be the easiest method in the world. You've got to try this if you've never tried hydroponics before and aquaponics which is just fish producing chemical waste and growing plants and yeah all sorts of mucking around. But this system is called the Krakski method. I think it's from Bernard Krakski I'm pretty sure. I'm probably butchering his name but what you need to know is this is the easiest easiest way of doing hydroponics ever. You don't have to use fancy buckets like I've got. You don't have to use skewers. Well that's bamboo so that's pretty cheap. And you don't have to use fancy pots with holes already drilled in them. Yes anything will work with this method so you just need some sort of tub or something that's going to hold your hydroponic solution and I'll go through what this is in this video. It's water with just stuff added and that is incredibly easy as well. That's probably the only thing that you'll need to buy. Everything else you can practically get for free. So as I said you need some sort of tub and that. In this system we are going to use tomatoes and tomatoes will get pretty big. So if you have a look at this system here and this is another hydroponic system but this is just using a solar pump. It's pumping water through these little Beto buckets and then it is going overflowing into that tub there. So this is like a fancy version of what you're about to see in this video but tomato plants will get quite big. So they're going to get three to five foot tall depending on the species or the variety. They're all the same species depending on the variety. So as they grow their roots are going to absorb more nutrients and yeah you do need a decent volume of water to keep them happy. So these buckets here are about a 20 litre bucket and yeah that's going to be enough water to support one tomato plant. Now not all tomato plants are going to survive so it pays you to get extra tomato plants when you do buy them or if you get given them from someone else etc etc. So we've got six buckets here. I did end up with I think eight tomato plants. I don't even know what type these are pot prize whatever pot prize tomato is who knows but they are just a normal tomato plant it's going to get a decent size. So these little skewers going through the pot are going to be the supports because tomato plants aren't great at supporting their own weight. If you have a look at this system that's why I've got little skewers with zip ties just holding them in. In the wild they grow in between other plants if you can even call them wild plants. Yeah wild tomatoes grow like that in between other plants and that just supports them. But getting back to this method all you need is really a pot and you can use any secondhand pot you want. Drill a whole lot of holes in the pot. You want your pot sitting just so that the bottom of it is in the water like that. So you want to make sure that you've got roughly where your water level needs to be. Drill a hole in the pot so that your water level is always going to be at that level and then as the plants actually grow and the roots come through the bottom of the pot they're going to take up that nutrients and that water and your water level is going to go down. And it's important not to top it up after that because you want the water level to go down and you want more oxygen to the roots so they don't rot. It's an awesome awesome method so a little bit different than the method where the water gets pumped through and then goes back out because once you've set up this hydroponic solution that's it you don't have to stuff around with it anymore and the less work for any of this stuff the better. So this is an absolute dodgy hole yeah I've butchered that but it doesn't matter. That sits right down flush like that and then you need some sort of media to actually grow your plant. So you don't want to use dirt you just want to use something simple like you can use volcanic rock you can use scoria which is volcanic rock. This stuff here which is just perlite anything that's inert that supports the plant so it's actually got a foothold on something is going to work perfectly fine. So we've got this stuff which is just a ceramic media whatever the hell that's called starts with L. I'll probably put it on the screen if I haven't put it on the screen it doesn't really matter but you put your media in there you want to just build it up a little bit pop your plant in there and then put the rest of your media. Now you can either use the dirt or not use the dirt it really doesn't matter. Let's just grab one of our tomatoes and this is an interesting thing too you'll get big ones small ones some will grow better than others. It doesn't overly matter which one you pick we're just going to put the camera down and place our tomato in our media. Okay that is what our tomato plant looks like with a little bit of dirt attached. Now we're doing the lazy method we are not actually removing any of the dirt from the roots we are just going to gently pit the plant there like that and then we're just going to grab some more of our media and just place it around the whole pot. Whole pot inside the pot. We've also got a little skewer going through the bottom of the pot because as I said that's where we're going to attach them but that is pretty much it so for the first couple of days we're just going to give them a little tiny little bit of water so we're going to take some nutrient solution from the bottom just pour it in the top and that's a good thing with these methods you can just take the whole lid and the plant up you can get some water solution from the bottom put it in there until the roots actually start to go towards the bottom then you don't have to touch it at all. So it depends on your climate too because I'm in a particularly really really hot climate if I don't water them to start with they're just going to fry. So cold climates inside you probably won't need to do that but it's just what we do here. And there we go we have our tomato plant in our bucket doing its thing. You will need a decent amount of light and if you've seen any of my other videos with my aquaponics we've got LED light sitting on top so if you want to use sort of something like that inside it's going to make a big big difference. If you've only got them sitting in a window with a little bit of light they're probably not going to go too well and if you have a look at this system you can sort of see with this system because this is undercover these tomato plants which are the ones at the back are not nearly as big as the ones that are getting more light here. Look at the thickness of the stems. Yeah so the ones that are getting more light are growing a lot better than the ones obviously that are not getting that light. So light does make a huge huge difference with any of these systems. So as I said you can use just a normal LED light this is an aquarium LED light but you can use plant LED lights. Any amount of light just above the plants are going to make a huge difference. These ones are going to go a little bit more out under cover and then I'm just going to have like a plastic canopy over the top to stop any rain from diluting that. Now with the hydroponic solution what I'm using is one gram per litre and we're using calcium nitrate and we're using the diamond special tea which is just pretty much a liquid fertilizer. Now you'll need some sort of scales those are just our dodgy little scales. You don't have to muck around too much with it so we got three four eight there we go that is roughly 10 grams well it's 11 grams and all we're going to do with that is we're going to add that to our solution and we're going to do the same with the calcium. Once they've stirred around in there we're just going to set and forget give the plants a little bit of water each day for about a week and then check the roots once the roots are in the solution we're just going to ignore them and away we go. Anyway if you did enjoy this video click the thumbs up so I know if you've got any questions whatsoever just comment down below. Obviously that system works with any size tubs and pots and whatever. The bigger the plant the more water volume you want but yeah it's pretty straightforward solution and decent lighting and away you go. Obviously bugs can still wipe your plants out so be extra cautious about little bugs and bits and pieces. Anyway we will see you in the next video if you want to watch any other stuff this stuff on the screen now and we'll see you there.