How regenerative farming reduces costs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dsa5hOIV2wc
Nonprofits & Activism
 The more regenerative I get and think of soil health and system approach rather than a product approach, my herbicide bill's gone down by half, my fungicide bill's gone down by 40%, my fertiliser bill cut by half. I want to get away from using artificial nitrogen in a few years by having a systems approach, building on soil health benefits, building fertility and natural processes within my farming system. The future's got to be that way because artificial fertiliser is going to be a limited resource, diesel will be a limited resource. We will move away from these fossil-based products to more nature-based products. We cannot continue mining phosphate and potash out of the ground, it's not renewable. So how the heck do we find a farming system that actually allows us to produce enough food to feed the global population but also have enough effect and benefit to the soil and the system around it? The conservation agriculture direct drilling system for myself at the moment is a time thing. It's meant that I could take on this farm three years ago and farm it the area with a lot less people and a lot less machinery and capital outlay in terms of machinery than would have been possible 10 or 15 years ago. I'm not doing it because I believe this is or I know that this is going to make me more money than another way of doing it. I'm doing it because I don't want to have to go out and buy lots of big cultivators and big horsepower tractors and have a massive great big diesel tank in the yard that I need to fill up every week. I want to be able to farm the area I'm farming better, be more weather resilient with less machinery and every day that if I can turn up in this field, drill it, leave, come back six weeks later and drill my cash crop and go away again all that time in the middle I can have off. I could either not be at work all the time every hour of the day on the tractor or I can go and do some work somewhere else either on another field on the farm or farm a larger area myself or for contracting customers. On average these tractors now do about 150 160 hours a year. Farming conventionally we would put certainly 800 hours a year on a tractor and sometimes a thousand hours a year wouldn't be unusual so these tractors are probably only doing through the year 20 percent of the work that they would have been doing before. From stubble to stubble, so including planting our catch or cover crops, the whole establishment and looking after the crops through the year including harvesting, we would now use the maximum of 40 41 litres a hectare and in the past we would have been using certainly two possibly three times as much as that and certainly work that I've done with a series of customers for a supply chain contract in the past the range of fuel use ran from 40 litres a hectare to 160 litres a hectare in the extreme so the potential is certainly to halve your fuel use possibly more than that and in the extreme the fuel use would be around a quarter of what it could be on some soil types.