Ag Employment Law and Your Farm 3.14.18
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DSVCRIt-T0Y
Nonprofits & Activism
 All right. Hello and welcome again to everyone. You are in attendance at the Ag Employment Law and Your Farm webinar, which is hosted by the New Entry Sustainable Farming Project and the Conservation Law Foundation with our presenter, who's an employment law expert and partner at Concavenor, Beth O'Neill. Before we get started with the content, I want to tell you a little bit about New Entry. So, New Entry is a beginning farmer training organization based in Lowell, Massachusetts. So, we work with new farmers to build strong business expertise in the field and a resilient food system. And we do this through delivery of a number of different programs. We offer a farm business planning course, an incubator farm, as well as practical skill trainings, both for our incubator farmers and the wider agricultural community. And we also aggregate produce for our farmers, as well as buy-in from farmers of the state through our New Entry Food Hub. In addition to the on the ground work that we do, we also offer regional and national food systems development networks. So, we have the Agricultural Apprenticeship Learning Network, the National Incubator Farm Training Initiative, and a number of programs that are designed to assist applicants to of the BFRDP and Community Food Projects grant programs as well. If you're interested in learning more about what New Entry has to offer, you're welcome to check out our website, NESFC.org. I'd like to give the opportunity to Jenny from the Conservation Law Foundation to introduce CLF's work and talk a little bit about the Food Hub as well. So, Jenny, you're unmuted if you want to say hi. Jenny Rushlow, Great. Thank you. Hi, everyone. I'm Jenny Rushlow from Conservation Law Foundation. I'm a senior attorney and director of our Farm and Food Program. Conservation Law Foundation is a New England-wide environmental advocacy organization, primarily staffed by attorneys. And we run a program called the Legal Food Hub, which provides free legal assistance to farmers and food businesses as well as the organizations that support them. This program started in 2014, and we are now operating in four states, Massachusetts, Maine, Rhode Island, and Connecticut. We've placed about 300 cases across those four states in the last four years, and we have 134 law firms in our network currently. The way the program works is that CLF performs case intake if a farmer or a food business needs our assistance. And then we place that person with an attorney at a private law firm who's offered to provide their services pro bono, and they then begin an attorney-client relationship with the issue that the participant needs help with. So, we have 134 law firms who have offered to do that. We're able to help with a wide range of legal issues for farmers and food businesses that include things like land acquisition and transfer, employment issues, intellectual property, entity formation, regulatory issues like food safety, and many more. To learn more about our program, you can visit our website, which is at LegalFoodHub.org, or we have an 800 number if you'd like to contact us to seek legal services. That's on your screen, 1844 law grow. And with that, I'm going to turn the program over to our speaker, Beth O'Neill. Beth is a partner at Concavenaugh in Boston, and her practice focuses on employment law and employment litigation. And she's going to be talking to us about those issues as they relate to farms today. I'll turn it over to Beth. Beth O' All right, Beth. You are unmuted, and you should be have control of the screen now. Beth O' Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. I am using a speakerphone, but I can easily pick up the handset. So, if anybody cannot hear me well enough, please use the chat box and let Brie know, and she will let me know, and I'll be happy to pick up the handset. So, as Jen had described, we are one of those 134 law firms who have been working with the LegalFoodHub on a pro bono basis. And prior to year-end 2017, I and two of my colleagues here at Concavenaugh prepared an employment law guidance for Massachusetts Farmers. It's really a handbook, if you will. And my understanding is that following your participation in this seminar, all of you will receive the employment law guidance handbook. So, everything that I speak about today is also addressed in a fairly high level of detail in that employment law guidance handbook to which you can make reference if you have any particular questions. But for purposes of today, I'm going to provide an overview of certain topics addressed in that employment law guidance handbook that we think are important to be focused on during this seminar. As Brianna had indicated, I am happy to take questions as we go. And if you could prepare your question in the chat box, Bri will let me know if anybody has a question. I think it's more helpful if you have a burning desire to ask a question that you do so as we go along. So, as I was introduced, my name is Beth O'Neill. I work for a firm in Boston and I work for a firm in Boston called Kahn, Kavanaugh, Rosenthal, Peich, and Ford. And I typically do management side employment work. So, that has been the focus of my practice for a number of years. So, today, in our presentation overview, and I will direct you to the next slide. Next slide. We're going to discuss the relationship of employer to employee. And why is this important to all employers? The reason it is critically important is because employees under Massachusetts law, as well as federal law, have significant rights. And there are any number of laws that apply to the employer-employee relationship. Those laws are detailed in the employment law guidance book, but they include such things as paid sick leave, minimum wage, the requirement for an employer to keep and maintain a personnel record, the obligation of an employer to ensure that it has workers' compensation insurance covering its employees, parental leave rights, domestic violence leave rights, and importantly, the right to be paid a particular minimum wage, and to earn overtime if the employee is entitled to it. Now, the reason for all these laws protecting the relationship between employer and employee is to ensure that folks who work for a living knowing receive fair treatment, have a living, receive fair treatment, lawful treatment, and appropriate pay. Now, as many of you may be aware, sometimes workers labels and by that I mean different than the employee label. For example, a worker could be called an independent contractor or a volunteer or an intern or an apprentice. It doesn't matter under the law what an employer may seek to call the worker because those categories that I just described, independent contractor, volunteer, intern, and apprentice mean very different things. And we will talk about what they mean specifically during this presentation. So I think one of the most important issues for employers to grapple with and determine is this. How do we determine who is an employee and who is not? So let's move to the next slide. As I said a few moments ago, the labels that you may use are irrelevant. They have no meaning whatsoever unless of course the worker is legitimately and by statute or law qualifies as an apprentice, an intern, or a volunteer. What matters is not what you call the worker but what are the legally defined terms under the law and how they apply to your particular worker. And in fact, the law also provides under Massachusetts law that if you call somebody an independent contractor and they are not, even if they agree to be treated as an independent contractor as opposed to an employee and that agreement is in writing and it's signed by the worker, it makes no difference. The law will not permit that written contract to be enforced. And in fact, the law provides that it is void and unenforceable. So I think that that really explains and confirms that it doesn't matter what you may call the worker. What matters is whether what it is they are doing qualifies them as an employee or something else. So that's what we will explore today. So if we could go to the next slide. Beth, can we can I pop in to ask the question quickly? Of course. Yeah, we have a question about how the employer employee definition is affected when the organization is a cooperative business. Do you have any sense of how that might change things? So I'm not sure what's meant by a cooperative business, but that said, I have done work for what's called co-ops. So the client I worked for was a cooperative organization of owners of Dunkin Donuts franchisees. And they banded together as owners of the franchisees and established a cooperative company that would do their buying for them, buying of milk and light cream and coffee beans and flour, et cetera. Those workers that worked for the cooperative entity were considered as employees and they needed to be treated as employees. And I'm not sure if that answer answers the question that was asked, but I'm happy to tease that out a little bit. Okay, great. Yes, it looks like it does. Thank you. You're welcome. So the million dollar question that faces every employer is who is an employee? And as indicated on the slide, for purposes of minimum wage and overtime, and I'll explain what that is in detail. Under Massachusetts law, there is a presumption that every worker working on your farm is an employee. So the law sets up a presumption that every worker that works on your farm is an employee, unless you can show that they are something different, consistent with the law. And so if the worker is employed by you, and the word employee is used is a very broad definition. It means to suffer or permit to work. That worker is viewed legally as an employee of yours. So next slide. What does that mean if a person is an employee? It means, at a minimum, that they are entitled to be paid based upon minimum wage for agricultural work. Now, let me back up for a moment to also let you know that federal law, in addition to Massachusetts law, may apply to many or all of you. So you may be considered to be employers under both Massachusetts law and federal law. And this is all that you need to know in terms of trying to figure out if you're an employer under federal law and or Massachusetts law. It's very easy to be deemed an employer under federal law. So you only have to have sales, annual sales, totaling $500,000 or more, or engage in interstate commerce. So if you have annual sales totaling $500,000 or more, or you engage in interstate commerce, you are an employer under federal law. Now, interstate commerce is very broadly interpreted. And some courts have ruled that companies that regularly use the United States mail to send or receive letters to and from other states are engaged in interstate commerce. So it is likely that most of you would be considered an employer under federal law. All of you would also be considered an employer under Massachusetts law if you have operations in Massachusetts. And so here's all you need to know about, gee, what law do I have to abide by if I'm an employer both under federal and Massachusetts law? You are required to abide by the law that provides the most protection and the greatest benefit to your workers. So this next slide is a perfect example of how that would work. So the minimum wage for agricultural workers under federal law is $7.25 per hour. Under Massachusetts law, the minimum wage for agricultural workers is $8 an hour. So based on what I just explained, that the worker gets the better of the two laws, you would be required to you would be required to abide by the Massachusetts agricultural minimum wage of $8 per hour. Now, the typical minimum wage under Massachusetts law for other than agricultural workers is $11 per hour. That, too, is a better deal for the worker than federal minimum wage. So as far as a Massachusetts employer goes, you are always going to be required to abide by the Massachusetts minimum wage and the Massachusetts overtime law. So the minimum wage for agricultural work under Massachusetts law is really considered a sub-minimum wage. And I'm sure most of you are familiar with the fact that there are certain types of work where an employer is permitted to pay their workers what constitutes a sub-minimum wage. That includes agricultural workers. It includes wait staff. It includes a variety of other particular types of work where sub-minimum wage is permitted. So for purposes of the agricultural worker, you are permitted to pay them a sub-minimum wage of $8 per hour. But the work that they are performing for that sub-minimum wage has got to be agriculture and farm work. And that's defined as labor on a farm and the growing and harvesting of agricultural, floricultural, and horticultural commodities. So what would likely not be included as agricultural and farm work? And I think that that's been an important issue for many folks to whom we've given this seminar. So what would not be included as agricultural and farm work for purposes of the sub-minimum wage would be work off the farm. The selling of products that perhaps the farm produces. Agro-tourism and extra processing. Agro-tourism and extra processing. So if you have a person, for example, who works a cash register because you sell jelly products that you make from what it is you grow, likely that individual would not be entitled to be paid the $8 per hour sub-minimum wage. So let's go to the next slide. So we are going to assume that your worker is entitled to be paid a sub-minimum wage. Are there certain benefits that a farmer employer may typically provide to or for the benefit of a farm worker that you are permitted to deduct from their minimum wage? And the answer is yes. There are certain things that can be deducted from your agricultural workers' minimum wage, even if when you deduct those things, you reduce the individual's pay below the minimum wage. And those things that you can deduct really fall into two categories, lodging and meals. So if you provide to your workers lodging, first of all, they have to be safe and sanitary and meet the Massachusetts minimum standards for human habitation. And it's got to include heat, potable or drinkable water, and light. And even when it does, you're limited to deducting maximum weekly rates of $35 for one room occupied by one person, $30 for one room occupied by two people, and $25 a week for one room occupied by three or more persons. And with respect to the meals, there are maximum rates for deductions also shown on this slide, very modest maximum rates for deduction, and it's $1.50 for a breakfast and $2.25 for lunch and dinner. And you're only permitted a certain amount of allowable deductions. So if somebody works three or more hours, you're only permitted to deduct for one meal. If they work eight hours or more, you're permitted to deduct for two meals. And if lodging is provided, as well as meals, or if you seek and secure special permission from the Massachusetts Department of Labor, you may be entitled to deduct for three meals. Now, the lodging and the meal plan that I just described needs to be reduced to writing. So you need to explain to the employee in writing what lodging is being provided and what the deductions are going to be. Same thing with the meals. Same thing with the meals. And they need to accept the lodging and the meal plan voluntarily and in writing. And until such time as you get that writing signed by the employee, you may not commence deducting to either lodging or meals. So, you may not be able to do that. So, we have a question about these maximum rates. Yes. So, someone's wondering if the same maximum rates apply for employees making well above the minimum wage. So, are these rates in any way tied related to the wages that folks are making or are these the rates regardless of their wage? Okay. Thank you. So, the next slide we're going to now address in addition to the minimum wage or the sub-minimum wage that I've reviewed with you is the requirement for… Okay. I'm having a little bit of difficulty advancing to the next page. Okay. So, now the next important issue for employers is overtime. So, let me… Beth, before we get into overtime, can I ask another question about lodging? Of course. All right. So, we have a question here. I'm just going to read it verbatim. If a farm employee rented a house from the employer, would the tenant-landlord relationship and the employer-employee relationship have to be completely separate? Or could there be a situation in which the employee received a rental reduction in exchange for some farm chores? Could you read that again? Sure. And if you want to read it, it's in the chat box. Oh, I can actually… It's not public, but I'll read it one more time. So, if a farm employee rents a house from their employer, would the tenant-landlord relationship and the employer-employee relationship have to be separate? Or could there be a situation in which the employee received a rental deduction in exchange for some farm? Well… I think that that would have to be very clear. Just one point. I'll just… If they're going to talk to you about the family, but I have a question here. I have a question here. Yeah, sorry. I have a question. I have a question here. I can… …not on that, but… I can actually… It's not public, but I'll read it one more time. So, if a farm employee rents a house from their employer, would the tenant-landlord relationship and the employer-employee relationship have to be separate? Or could there be a situation in which the employee received a rental deduction in exchange for some farm chores? I think that that would have to be very carefully considered because what I'm envisioning is if perhaps the house would rent for $500 a month. And I'll use that as an example. But yet, under the law, if the employer provides lodging, they are clearly entitled to a much more modest deduction off of the employee's wages. So I would say if you're trying to approach the relationship on the one hand as landlord and tenant and then on the other as employer and employee, and by doing that, you seek to have the employee pay the higher rent and then get a credit, if you will, for what the employer could have deducted from pay. I think that that would have to be looked at very carefully to ensure, and I'm not suggesting this is the point of the question, but to ensure that the employer is not trying to get the benefit of both bargains where, in fact, they may not be entitled to it. And the lodging law under Massachusetts law is really written to address a room as opposed to a house. So I would look at that situation that's been described in the question very carefully to make sure that the employer, in his role as a landlord, is not running afoul of these wage and hour laws, which are very strictly construed and strictly enforced. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. The next issue for an employer, in addition to the minimum wage, is the issue of overtime. So, generally speaking, an employee is permitted to earn one and one-half times their regular rate of pay for all hours actually worked over 40 in a work week. So, if your work week starts on a Sunday and ends on a Saturday, you take a look at each work week separately. And generally speaking, if a worker works in excess of 40 hours, they're entitled to time and a half. Now, the important ingredient in the overtime law is that they have to have actually worked in excess of 40 hours. Why am I focusing on that so much? Let me give you an answer by giving you an example. So, let's assume that I work for you and I work seven and a half hours per day and I receive a one-hour paid meal break. So, seven and a half hours a day for five days equals 37 and a half hours. And trust me, I did the math before we began the webinar. One hour for my paid meal break for five days equals five hours. So, put together the hours worked, 37 and a half, with the five hours for my paid meal break, and that equals 42.5 hours. Would I be entitled to overtime based upon my 42 and a half hour work week? The answer is absolutely no. Because I didn't work that one-hour meal break. I actually worked my seven and a half hours a day for five days, which equals 37 and a half hours. Working 37 and a half hours does not entitle me to overtime. So, in that situation, your employee may say to you, well, my work week is 42 and a half hours, and I get a one-hour paid meal break. It doesn't matter. It's only those hours that are actually worked in excess of 40 for which the employee is entitled to overtime. So, that's the rule. Now, as in most laws or rules, there are exceptions. And the good news is, for farmers, there are two important exemptions from the overtime law. One exemption is for the agricultural worker. Largely, the agricultural worker is not entitled to be paid overtime. So, you don't have to pay them overtime. You have to pay them their subminimum wage, but you don't have to pay them overtime. The other exemption is provided by a Massachusetts law, and it's called the Seasonal Business Exemption, or waiver. That is described in a fair level of detail in the Employment Law Guidance Handbook that you will receive, but I will describe it very briefly for you now. If an employer operates a seasonal business, and a seasonal business is one that is carried on up to, but no greater than, 120 days in a given year. It doesn't have to be 120 consecutive days, but it cannot exceed 120 days in a given year. The process of getting a seasonal business waiver is a formal one, and you've got to apply for a seasonal business waiver to the Massachusetts Department of Labor. If you get a seasonal business waiver, you are not required to pay your employee, and that employee does not have to be an agricultural employee. You do not have to pay that employee overtime. So, let me give you an example of what might constitute a seasonal business. You're a farm, and you sell Christmas trees during the Christmas season, and you hire workers to sell the trees for you. So long as the sale of the Christmas trees does not take up more than 120 days in a given year, you could apply to the Department of Labor for a seasonal business exemption or waiver, and if you receive it, then in fact, you do not have to pay that worker any overtime. Okay. So I know that you're all probably dying to hear about the overtime exemption available to the agricultural worker. So remember that we talked about the fact that you can pay your agricultural worker a sub-minimum wage of $8 per hour. And those are workers who clearly are working in the field. They're planting and harvesting. They're actually preparing harvested crops for sale. They're operating machinery such as tractors or other farm machinery on farm. Those workers are permitted to be paid an $8 per hour sub-minimum wage, and they're not entitled to overtime, no matter how many hours they work in a work week. There are other workers that likely work on a farm that would not be considered agricultural workers. For example, they work at a farm stand that is located off the farm. So you take your harvested crops, sell them at a farm stand or a market, farmer's market. Those folks who are working at the farmer's market or at the farm stand need to be paid $11 per hour, and they're entitled to overtime. If you make jelly or jam with berries that came not only from a different farm but from your own farm, those folks would likely not be eligible to be paid a sub-minimum wage and instead would need to be paid $11 per hour. If you have hayrides called agrotourism on your farm, the workers who operate the hayrides would likely be required to be paid $11 per hour and not be entitled to a sub-minimum wage. Now, I know from previous seminars that there was a question related to, well, what if I have an agricultural worker who does in fact legitimately perform agricultural work for certain hours during the work week and non-agricultural work during other hours of the work week? Are they entitled to be paid the sub-minimum wage for all of their work? And as I mentioned, that was a question from a previous seminar. I will respond to that by saying that that is a highly complicated question, and it really does require very careful consideration because if you are paying somebody a sub-minimum wage and not paying them overtime because they're an agricultural worker, that really is not providing a benefit to an employee that the law otherwise provides, which is $11 an hour in time and a half. So you get into an analysis of whether the work that they are performing, the agricultural work, is their primary duty, and how frequently they in fact perform the non-agricultural work. And that is based on hours and days that they are performing the non-agricultural work. And there are certain circumstances when if the agricultural work becomes other than their primary duty and the non-agricultural work is performed too frequently that you as the employer will lose the benefit of paying the worker the sub-minimum wage and not paying the worker overtime. So if you've got employees wearing two different hats, you have to be very careful about how you treat them and pay them. And I would recommend to you that it is a very fact-specific analysis that you ought to get legal counsel to help you figure out. Now, let's assume, though, that you have some agricultural workers doing agricultural work, and you also have them, for example, working at the farmer's market. And for their agricultural work, you're paying them $8 an hour. And for their non-agricultural work, you're paying them $11 an hour. And let's assume they work over 40 hours in a work week. The question comes up, well, what is the overtime rate that I need to pay them? If I need to pay them an overtime rate, that, too, I would recommend to you. You should be guided by an attorney as to how you handle that. But generally speaking, you may have the option of doing one of two different things. You find the weighted average of the two different rates and pay them overtime based on the weighted average. Or alternatively, before the employee performs overtime work, you and the employee agree that the overtime rate will be based on the regular rate of pay that applies to the type of work performed during the hours in excess of 40. So, if that is a little bit complicated, that's accurate. It is complicated. So, I highly recommend that if you have an employee wearing two different hats, one of which is an agricultural worker hat, you really need to seek legal guidance and counsel as to how to deal with that employee. Any questions related to this kind of combination of agricultural work and farm work or non-agricultural work? And the question is related to a salaried employee. So, I'll just read it. It says, can farm workers who do both agricultural labor and sales at farmers markets or retail stores off the farm be salaried and exempt from overtime if they manage their own schedules? Yeah. So, I guess the kind of underlying question there is, does a salaried, giving a salary to an employee, the salary which is well over minimum wage? Like, how does that factor into this? That's an excellent question. And people sometimes think, well, because I pay the person on a salary basis, I'm good to go. I don't have to concern myself with overtime. That is absolutely, positively not accurate. So, there are certain exemptions that are really called or known by the white-collar exemption. And there's an administrative exemption. An executive exemption. A learned professional exemption. And those exemptions will apply if, in fact, the duties being performed by the employee meet the tests of those white-collar exemptions. And, and this is important, and so long as the employee is paid on a salary basis in a minimum amount under federal law. And I believe, but please don't quote me on this. I do have to look at it every time. I believe that minimum salary basis is about $26,000 a year. So, let's call it that for purposes of my answering the question. So, if the worker is performing duties that fit within one of the three white-collar exemptions and the employee is paid on a salary basis, at least in the amount of the $26,000 minimum level, then, in fact, that worker is not entitled or eligible to be paid overtime. Now, what it means to pay somebody on a salary basis, though, is important as well. It means that that worker gets the same amount of money week in and week out, no matter how many or no matter how few hours the employee works each work day. So, I'm paid on a salary basis for my job. I can work two hours today or ten hours today. I can do the same thing five days a week, and I'm still entitled only to the salary that I receive week in and week out. So, if you have an employee who is sort of not really doing everything that you expect of her and she only works four to five hours per day, you have to still pay that employee her salary basis amount. So, merely because you pay someone a so-called salary does not mean that they are not otherwise entitled to overtime. So, that's a very dangerous thing to think and to do because it may not be accurate. Can we move to the next slide if there are no other questions? Yes, thank you. So, the next slide is a list of those non-employee classifications that I spoke about earlier, and that includes an independent contractor, a volunteer, an intern or a trainee, and an apprentice. All of these labels mean something very specific. And I will tell you up front that it is difficult to establish that a worker is either an independent contractor, a volunteer, an intern or a trainee, or an apprentice. And, by the way, it is always and everywhere, the obligation of the employer to establish that the worker is legitimately being treated as an independent contractor, a volunteer, an intern, trainee, or an apprentice. So, before we get to what are those categories, let me talk about the danger of misclassifying a worker as a non-employee. So, if you misclassify a worker, for example, as an independent contractor, and you therefore do not pay the employee the minimum wage to which she is entitled or overtime to which she may be entitled, you run the risk of failing to pay the employee according to the Massachusetts wage laws. So, if the employee is entitled to mandatory trouble damages. So, if you fail to pay the employee over a period of time, let's just use an easy number, $10,000 in either minimum wage or overtime to which they were entitled. So, if you fail to pay the employee over a period of time, and the employee recovers $10,000 in unpaid wages against you, that will automatically be tripled to $30,000. The judge has no choice in whether or not to triple that amount. It is mandatory. What else is mandatory is that that employee who brought a claim against you is automatically entitled to recover his or her reasonable attorney fees. In addition to that, and this next part usually gets people's attention, those folks that are officers of a corporate employer or an LLC employer, and even the managers of that corporate entity or that LLC entity, are potentially personally liable for the amount that is recovered by the employee. So, let's assume that the employee was employed by ABC incorporated. But ABC incorporated went bankrupt and didn't have money to pay that $30,000 judgment. The officers of ABC incorporated, its president, its vice president, its treasurer, and the higher level managers who managed that employee, they can be sued personally and individually. And it happens all the time. So, the law in Massachusetts wields a very large stick to make sure that employers are doing the right thing in terms of complying with wage and hour laws in Massachusetts. In addition to those trouble damages and attorney fees and personal liability, you could be investigated for workers' comp fraud because likely, for example, you will not have covered the independent contractor under your workers' compensation insurance. You could be subjected to tax audits because obviously, if you're not paying somebody as an employee, you're not paying in required withholdings and matching taxes. So, you could subject yourself to an unemployment insurance benefits audit. And all those folks that you misclassified and didn't pay properly, you may find yourself having to pay into the unemployment insurance fund or the workers' compensation fund for those employees that you should have but did not cover. And Massachusetts law also provides for some potential criminal penalties, both fines and or imprisonment, but those, the imposition of those types of penalties are quite rare. So, those are the consequences of misclassifying a worker as a non-employee, whether you classify them as an independent contractor, a volunteer, an intern trainee, or a volunteer. So, before I move to the next slide, are there any questions about the penalties? We do have a question about the application of these sort of things to nonprofits when it comes to farm labor, but it seems like we'll get to that a little later on. Is that right? We are. We are going to talk about nonprofits, so hold that thought. Okay. Thank you. Okay. So, what's an independent contractor? Because that's one of the more popular misclassifications. You hire somebody as a worker. You call them an independent contractor. You pay them a particular rate, whether it's a per diem rate or a weekly rate or a project rate. You don't deduct taxes. You don't cover them under your workers' comp. You don't pay into the unemployment benefit insurance fund. You don't pay them a monthly rate or a monthly rate or a monthly rate or a monthly rate or a monthly rate. So, what do you, the employer, and it's your obligation, need to demonstrate in order that you legally and legitimately classify and treat somebody as an independent contractor? All right. So, remember I said that every worker is presumed to be an employee? That's what this particular law says. It says an individual performing any service shall be considered to be an employee. There's that presumption. Unless the worker is free from control and direction in the connection with the performance of the service, both under his contract, which means arrangement, for the performance of service, and in fact. So, it's one thing to say in the independent contractor agreement that I, the employer, will not control or direct you in the performance of your work. So, the words say that. But in order to be legitimately classified as an independent contractor, not only must the words say that, but in fact, that has to be the case. And this is a three-part test. The second part is, and the service, the work being performed is outside the usual course of the business of the employer. And this is part number three. And this is part number three. The individual, the worker, is customarily and usually engaged in an independently established trade, occupation, profession, or business of the same nature as that involved in the work that they're doing for you. So, I'm going to give you what I hope is a very clear and simple example of how this test would work. So, I work for a law firm. I'm a partner in the law firm. And the business of our law firm is to practice law. We also have some plants around the office. And we hire or contract with a company to come in and take care of and replace our plants when they need replacing. Are we legitimately classifying those workers, those folks, as independent contractors? You bet we are. We hire. Why is that? Why is that? It's because we don't tell them how to take care of the plants. We wouldn't know what to tell them if we wanted to. We practice law. We don't grow and take care of plants. So, it's outside the usual course of our business. And the plant people that we hire. This is what they do. They go around the city of Boston and they contract with law firms and other businesses to take care of their plants. So, that would be a situation in which our treatment of these workers is legitimate as independent contractors. Any questions about the independent contractor? You know, continue? I'll wrap yourviče. во mtspela 겁니다. So, high-givče if we want to take care of these workers, focus on voting sites. OK. So, we're moving on to volunteers. I think that the general rule that you should take from this seminar is that nobody, typically nobody, can volunteer to work for a profit organization and not be paid. And the rationale is something I said at the beginning of this presentation, which is to make sure that people are treated fairly and lawfully and receive an appropriate wage. And to prevent employers from imposing upon workers and having them do volunteer work without pay. So the rule that you could take from this seminar is if you are a for-profit business, it is virtually impossible to have somebody volunteer and legitimately and legally not be paid. So the next slide addresses whether you can have volunteers for non-profit organizations. And the answer to that is yes. Typically, that volunteer must be working for a not-for-profit entity. And then if they are working in a volunteer situation for a not-for-profit entity, there are six factors to be considered that would be relevant to whether or not the person is legally being treated as a volunteer. And those six factors are shown on this slide. So they are the nature of the entity receiving the services. In other words, it's got to be a not-for-profit entity. Whether the worker is receiving any benefits or whether the worker has an expectation of receiving any benefits from their work. Benefits meaning typically remuneration. Number three, whether the activity is less than the worker's full-time occupation. Typically, a volunteer is not volunteering for 40 hours a week. The fourth factor is whether the person that you are calling a volunteer is in the workplace doing the work that a regular employee would ordinarily have done. So do you have regular employees that are being displaced by the volunteer? The fifth factor is whether the work being performed by the volunteer is offered freely, without any pressure, or coercion. And sixth, whether the work, the services, are of the kind typically associated with volunteer work. So I'll use an easy example. So you have the Mass Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, the MSPCA. You have folks that volunteer to clean out the animals' cages. They come in on a weekend or a couple of nights per week. There's no expectation that they will receive anything for their work. It's not full-time work. They do it because they love animals, not because they've been pressured. And it's typically the case that you would see volunteers working at an MSPCA. And most importantly, the MSPCA is indeed a not-for-profit entity. Under those circumstances, with respect to that type of an employer, if you will, you could legitimately be classified as an unpaid volunteer. The next slide addresses who is legitimately an intern or a trainee. This is also a very tough standard to meet. Massachusetts law is quite restrictive. And interns and trainees are typically those folks that work for a charitable, an educational, or a religious institution, all of whom are not-for-profit entities. And there has to be a training program that the intern or the trainee is working under. And that, too, is subject to a six-part test. Not any one of the six parts is dispositive. I would say you typically look at the work being performed in the so-called training program and see if it meets the six-part test. Not all of them, necessarily, but at least a couple of them. So, what are those six tests? The internship, even if it's going to include the actual operation of the employer's facilities, is similar to training that an individual would receive in an educational environment. The internship work itself is for the benefit of the intern and not the employer. The intern is not going to be displacing a regular employee by his or her work, but works under close supervision of existing staff. The employer that provides the intern with the training does not derive any benefit from the activities of the intern. And actually, sometimes their operations can be impeded. The intern isn't entitled to a job at the conclusion of the internship, so there's no promise of a job. And the employer and the intern understand that the intern is not entitled to wages for the time spent in the internship. I will give you an example of a legitimate internship that we've been involved in. So, every year we take on one or more students from the Boston Public Schools through the Boston Bar Association, and they come to our law firm in the summer and they work as interns. Honestly, they usually do impede our operations because we're all responsible for ensuring that they get sort of a wide and broad experience when they're here. And they're not doing tasks that would otherwise be undertaken by a paid worker. They're really learning. And importantly, the Boston Public Schools gives them credit for their high school requirements for the internship that they perform at our law firm. And a good example is the Northeastern University Co-op Program, which is approved by state regulators and permits the workers or the individual to come into a place of employment as an intern or a trainee. And if the employer, if you will, for whom the intern is working is an educational institution, the educational institution should also consider whether the training is a part of the educational curriculum, such as Northeastern does, and whether academic credit is received as it is at Northeastern. And as I mentioned to you, the students that are here for the summer also get high school credit for their work here. So an intern and a trainee is very difficult to prove. Any questions before I move to the next slide? No, go ahead. Okay. So recently, and by recently I mean in January of 2018, the federal Department of Labor, we've got a Massachusetts Department of Labor and a federal Department of Labor. In January of 2018, the federal Department of Labor issued a new fact sheet on when and under what circumstances a worker might legitimately be classified and treated as an unpaid intern. The important part is Massachusetts has not embraced or adopted that new test. And it's called the primary beneficiary test. It's much more lenient than what it had previously been. And the seven part test, I won't read all seven parts, but they're shown on the slide. And if you, under the federal law, are considering an unpaid intern, you should look to satisfy the seven part test. But be aware that even if you do, it very well may be that Massachusetts doesn't see things the way the feds do. Okay. We're next going to talk about registered apprenticeships. Can we ask one question before we go to this, Beth? There's a question about a lot of farms having short term volunteers, for example, like working four hours per week in exchange for some farm products, maybe vegetables, eggs. So basically like a work share opportunity. And then there's a question as to whether or not this is a legal practice. Like if it's legal to do that. So I knew you were going to ask me that because you gave me a heads up that you were. And I actually did look into it and tried to come up with an answer based upon either a Massachusetts or a federal law or some case law. And I could not come up with an answer. So what I gather is essentially this is really a bartering kind of arrangement. A person comes and does some work on the farm and barters that work for vegetables or produce, whatever. And so the issue is whether when the person is working on the farm, are they to be classified and treated as an employee as opposed to doing the work to essentially pay for the vegetables and the produce that they received. So what I would say to you is if you want to be extra careful, and I typically advise clients very conservatively because there's such a downside to disobeying these wage and hour laws, for example, the trouble damages, the mandatory attorney fees, et cetera. I might suggest to you that you do this. Actually employ the individual and pay them. If they're doing agricultural work, you can pay them their subminimum wage rate of pay or the hours that they work, and then they turn the check back over to you. If it happens to equal or be less than the value of the produce and the vegetables that they're receiving. Now, you may be thinking to yourself, oh, my God, why do I have to go through this? It's too complicated. Well, you don't have to, but if it's deemed in the future to be unlawful, you're taking a very big risk. Remember that typically the only time that an employer is caught disobeying the wage and hour laws is if an employee complains. It is not likely, but it does happen occasionally, that the Attorney General's office, Maura Healey's office here in Massachusetts, would set her sights on a particular industry and do an audit or an investigation. But that typically does not happen. It's usually the employee who feels that they have not been treated legally and lawfully, starts the process by filing a complaint with the Attorney General's office, which is the preliminary step that an employee must take before they file any kind of a lawsuit. So I'm sorry that I don't have a very precise answer for you. That's okay. I think that's still useful. I'm going to follow up question for that is, does bartering have to be taxed? I don't know the answer to that either. Okay. I'm not a tax lawyer. It sounds like in the answer you provided about having them as an employee, that agreement would be taxed, correct? Sure. Absolutely. If you have a worker that you're treating as an employee, the wages that they're receiving are absolutely positively subject to state and federal taxes. Okay. Okay? All right. Yeah. So the next topic is the apprenticeship topic. And you will see in gold, bold, big letters that we're talking about a registered apprenticeship. And that is very important. So under Massachusetts law, and I am, as you know, focusing on Massachusetts law, you can register an apprenticeship program with a state agency. And it is called the Department of Labor Standards Division of Apprentice Standards. And there are very specific requirements for registering an apprenticeship program. And you have to meet very specific requirements under Massachusetts law. It's got to be related to what is called an apprenticeable occupation. In reading the definition of an apprenticeable occupation, I would say that typically farming occupations would likely qualify as those that can be registered for an apprenticeship program. Now, what are the benefits of registering an apprenticeship program? You essentially get the blessing of the Massachusetts agency for your apprenticeship program. You typically have to pay minimum wage for those workers who are working in the apprenticeship program. However, there are provisions under the Massachusetts law that would permit you to pay the individual a subminimum wage. So that is one of the benefits of the apprenticeship program. Now, an apprenticeship program can be completed and submitted by a group or an association of businesses. So that might work well in terms of farming and farmers. So let's go to the next slide. So there are very specific eligibility and compliance requirements. And they are set forth on this slide. You need, for example, a detailed written plan covering employment training and supervision. So that is, for example, the individual who is registered in the apprenticeship program must receive at least a minimum of 150 hours per year of instruction on technical matters in the apprenticeship program. The instructor has to have received training on teaching techniques and adult learning. You need to or you can progressively increase the apprentice's wages as skills are required. And the starting wage typically may not be less than applicable minimum wage, which is if this is an apprenticeship program in agricultural setting, you can pay them the subminimum wage. However, as I mentioned a few moments ago, you are permitted to seek a special certificate based upon a determination that a subminimum wage is necessary to prevent curtailment of opportunities for employment. Now, subminimum wage is necessary to prevent curtailment of opportunities for employment. Now, subminimum wages, I know this because I've advised clients that operate centers, if you will, and educational institutions for the learning disabled. And they send their students out to places of employment, such as veterinarian offices and daycare centers and supermarkets. And they get the individual who has some learning disabilities training. And they're permitted to have an apprenticeship program where they would start the individual at a subminimum wage in an effort to work the individual up to a minimum wage based upon the individual learning under the apprenticeship program, the tools necessary to become employed. And there needs to be a need on a federal level for those workers. If you receive a certificate to pay the individual a subminimum wage, you cannot deduct lodging and meals from that person's wages. There needs to be periodic written reviews of the apprentices progress. progress, a detailed written apprentice agreement with the individual. You of course have to comply with equal opportunity and affirmative action regulations, meaning for example you couldn't refuse to take on an apprentice based on his or her race, color, creed, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, et cetera. You have to engage in meticulous record-keeping requirements and the state agency that is in charge of your apprenticeship program may in fact audit you and you've got to be prepared for their doing so with your meticulous record-keeping. So are there any questions about the registered apprenticeship program? Could you just restate the name of the Department of Labor I guess? Absolutely. So it's called, this is a Massachusetts agency now, it's the Department of Labor Standards Division of Apprentice Standards. They have a really good website so you can get on the website and they have a description of the apprenticeship program, what you need to do, who you need to contact, and what the criteria is. Great, thanks. And if I could make a pitch here real quickly, so New Entry has been working to develop an Ag Apprenticeship Toolkit which was just released last week and we include information in that toolkit on forming a registered apprenticeship, including the like developing a curriculum process that you have to go through. And I can send that out as an attachment to a follow-up email as well. Okay, and so our last slide is what to do about the dilemma of whether and under what circumstances you can legally and legitimately call somebody an intern, a volunteer, or an apprentice. Here's the get out of jail card. It's the easiest option by far. Pay them a minimum wage. Pay them overtime if they're entitled to overtime. If you are looking for an educational institution internship, partner with either a college, a university, or a high school vocational program. And remember that even if you do that, you still must comply with the six-part test that was on an earlier slide. So I think we've been at this for perhaps an hour and a half, and I'm happy to take any questions that you may have. And I'll do that now. Sure, yeah. At this point we'll just open it up to questions submitted in the chat box. So we've been pretty good about answering them as they come in. So we don't have too many remaining now. But I do have a question about enforcement of the statute. So it's my understanding, and please correct me if you're not. But there isn't a lot of case law to support these, like to really get into the details of a lot of these laws. Like what we're looking at now is what's on the books. And that makes me think a little bit about enforcement and how often we're seeing the wage and hour actually step in to enforce these things. You mentioned a little bit Beth about primarily complaints coming when a relationship breaks down, when an employee files some kind of complaint. And I was wondering if there's any other insight you could offer us around enforcement trends or likelihood or when that comes first. Sure. So typically, when an employer hears from an employee or a worker who's been misclassified is after the relationship is over. So whether they've been fired or they quit or they start talking among themselves about how they're being treated and paid, which by the way, employees are absolutely positively legally entitled to discuss among themselves, their pay, their wages, their compensation. But usually when I see a complaint filed, it's when the employment relationship has ended and the employee has learned that he or she was not treated properly. And the first stop typically is the filing of a wage complaint with the Attorney General's Office. That's easy for an employee to do. There's a form available on the Attorney General's website. It's really a fill in the blanks type form. If the employee is represented by a lawyer, it is highly likely that once the Attorney General gets the form, they will simply process it and issue what's called a right to sue letter. There are investigators that are. There are investigators that work for the Attorney General's Office that will investigate a wage complaint. And they will do it for one employee and they will do it for dozens of employees. And what an employer will find itself facing is a request by the Attorney General's investigator for all payroll records for sometimes three or fewer years. Because the statute of limitations, which means the period of time within which you get to file a complaint under Massachusetts law is three years. So the AG's office, through the investigator will ask you for payroll information going back three years and all kinds of other documentation. And they typically only give you a very short period of time within which to comply with their request for information. The Attorney General's Office has the power and authority to investigate whether workers have been treated unlawfully and to impose orders requiring payment of monies due to the employee as well as civil fines and penalties. At any time during the process that I just described, which is the investigative process at the Attorney General's Office, the worker himself or herself can say, stop the process. Stop your investigation. I want to file a lawsuit. And they can file a lawsuit in Superior Court. They have three years within which to do so. And they obviously hire a lawyer, file in court, and then the case is litigated in court. So you have to hire a lawyer. I would suggest to you that you ought to also hire a lawyer when you're the subject of an investigation by the AG's office. These claims are filed all the time. More recently, employees are getting together. Or I should say that plaintiff's class action lawyers are finding these employees and pursuing these cases as class action cases. These are very serious cases. The downside for the employer who has not followed the law is significant. I indicated under Mass law, it's treble damages. Under federal law, federal wage and hour laws, it's double damages. And it could be trouble damages. And it could be trouble damages if the actions of the employer were willful and knowing. But Mass law, it's mandatory trouble. So that's what everybody relies upon instead of the federal, which is you get your trouble if it's willful and knowing violation. Does that answer your question? Yeah, I think that does. We have a couple more questions. So one is, is a stipend ever legal for an employee on a commercial farm? So for example, you offer a training opportunity where someone works on your farm, they learn the ropes, and in exchange for their labor, they receive a weekly or monthly stipend. It may be. So long as the categories of unpaid workers that we reviewed today, whether it be a volunteer, which likely would not apply under any circumstances, but an intern or trainee or an apprentice, it may be viable. It depends upon how many hours are being worked. What is the amount of the stipend? Of the stipend? My assumption is the question wouldn't be asked unless the stipend were less than minimum wage. So I would say if it's less than minimum wage, it's not going to work unless you come within the categories described in the slides and in the handbook of a trainee apprentice or intern. So that's not a process. Okay. Thank you. And then another question about classifying an employee as a temporary or seasonal worker. So the question reads, is an employee only temporary seasonal if the business is seasonal? And then the person asking the question runs a operation that they do not classify as seasonal, but they do have classifications of temporary seasonal and temporary hourly employees. So a temporary worker, whether it's a temporary seasonal worker or temporary worker is still an employee. Which means that they're entitled to minimum wage, which means that they're entitled to minimum wage, they're entitled to overtime. This is generally speaking, but they only work a limited period of time. So I could employ a worker for a two week period. Is that a temporary worker? Yeah, I think that would be a fair characterization of the worker. Certainly not somebody who is full time or long term. I do have to pay that worker. I do have to pay that worker in accordance with the wage and hour laws. With respect to the seasonal worker that I spoke of today. That's an exemption that needs to be applied for by the employer who is operating a seasonal business. So I gave you the example of the sale of Christmas trees. So I know that there's a nursery on the Cape. That's a nursery on the Cape. That sells typically plants and garden tools and garden products. They're not a seasonal business because they're open all year long. They do, however, during the Christmas season only purchase and resell Christmas trees. They would be entitled to the seasonal business waiver with respect to those employees who are working in the seasonal capacity of selling Christmas trees. Great. I think that that answers the question well. Thank you. And yeah, if any other follow up questions, feel free to pop them in the chat box. We do have two more questions. It looks like we have time for it. We have about four minutes left. So the first question is, can you pay someone and treat them as an employee, but call the position an internship? This seems to get back to one of your first slides, which was that labels don't really matter. So can you call someone an intern, even though the legal arrangement might look more like an employee? If you're paying them as an employee, and by that I mean minimum wage and overtime, it doesn't matter what you call it. Okay. So the answer to the question is, yes, that would be kosher. I'm not sure why you would want to do it, but far be it from me to opine on that. Maybe there's a benefit for the worker and the employer, but if the employer is abiding by minimum wage and overtime, you can call it anything you want. Okay, great. And then the last question is, will handbooks be distributed to participants? And the answer to that is yes. We'll make sure to include the guide that Beth worked to create, which is specific to Massachusetts laws, as well as the Ag Apprenticeship Toolkit, which is the resource from new entry that I mentioned. Those will all be included in follow up emails. And Beth, it looks like that's the end of our questions for today. So unless there's anything else you'd like to add, we'll just say thank you so much for your effort on this. And yeah, we will certainly be working with the food hub to continue routing questions from farmers to experts like yourself. Okay, thank you so much. It was a pleasure. Great. Thank you everyone. Bye.