Argentine lab finds alternative to pesticides
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dXja5KbxG_0
News & Politics
 The problem lies here, in the insects that in their millions can cause massive devastation to crops. But according to investigators at this research laboratory in the city of La Plata, just south of Buenos Aires, they could also be the source of the solution. Some of them are alive, some of them are dead. And then when we brought to the lab and we look under the microscope and search for signs or symptoms of fungal infection. And then when they die, we put them in a humid chamber in a petri dish. They take the very fungi that have killed the insects and, in controlled conditions, develop and nurture it, turn it into a natural insecticide that can then be used to infect other healthy insects. Argentina, which was built and still thrives on agriculture, has fought a long battle against insects. The path to victory, it now seems, could lie in nature and the very heart of the enemy. The research is at an advanced stage, boosted by an imminent move to brand new government-funded laboratories. We are talking with some interested people that are in Argentina, the small companies that produce insecticides, and they are interested in mass production and formulation of this specific fungi. The researchers say their product will complement existing chemical insecticides, used on a massive scale in Argentina, rather than totally replace it. I believe we are returning to that, to try to control nature, using nature and less chemical products, or at least a rational use. What we are investigating are methods that we say are less aggressive. The makers of chemical insecticides say their products are safe, but they have provoked opposition from environmentalists, who say it can destroy wildlife, and in some cases cause birth defects and other health problems to those living near the crop spraying. Fungi, on the other hand, appears to only kill the very insects that produce it. Daniel Schwimler, Al Jazeera, La Plata, Argentina.