PLANTING PEANUTS SPRING 2020
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DxzL6CSktjk
People & Blogs
 all right guys we are taking the peanuts cracking them open and getting the seeds ready we're gonna be planting some peanuts this year all right foresters this is where we're going to put the uh the peanuts and uh i'm just i put some compost down a little bit more topsoil just trying to mend the soil a little bit it's some really good rich stuff anyways but uh so what we're gonna do is i'm just mixing it all in and loosening up the soil because peanuts need loose soil and we're going to plant these things about a foot and a half apart so uh i'm going to go ahead and finish mixing this up and we'll get back to you with the planting i don't know what these roots are to maybe the eggplant we had in there could be that big gigantic thing do do all right here's the nuts we had to take them out of the shell um you just shell them you got to use raw peanuts these are from burpee so these are seed peanuts you can get just you can go out and buy the green peanuts um but we're uh so we're going to plant these about a foot and a half apart 18 inches or 16 inches oh no that would be 18 inches about 18 inches apart that some of these might be a little close but they'll be all right and about a foot and about i'm going to drop two in two I'm going to go home. We have leftovers. We got a lot of leftovers. So we're going to... We'll have to make us another little patch somewhere. Alright, we can keep... I can put them in a little Ziploc bag. Alright. Alright, now what do you do? Now we cover them up. Just loosely? Yep. You know what? We can just keep a hold of these extras. In case the squirrels sniff these out. Yeah. Because we've got to worry about squirrels. You want all this soil to be loose. And wherever I put my hands, I need to lose them back up. Yeah. That's going to be so cool if we can grow our own peanuts. All right. Now we just got to clean up, huh? Yeah. And start watering. The big worm... The big worm 88 D. That's gonna be so cool... Awake säger ... Absolutely We'll catch you okay. We'll see you next time. Aku He's $6. I've got to know that! I've got to get your excited mind 2013, As you can see you there now. I don't think of it. You can process them apart like this, You can continue to fix that. There are some nice things as you can... Yeah, we can go to another dreamесс tank. So we can just keep the animals offetime. Yep, like me.