Ford 8N Tractor and Implements | Building A Homestead In 7 Days
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DZGZar-WKRU
Autos & Vehicles
 Well, one of the cooler things that we have got since we lived here has been the tractor. The tractor, where are you going? Out of here. You don't want to talk about the tractor? You can talk all you want about that tractor. Seriously? Yep. All right. So let's talk about the tractor. One of my more genius purchases, probably the best thing that we've ever owned, has been the tractor. That's arguable. That's arguable? Yes. I thought you didn't want to talk about the tractor. Okay. So anyways, one of the better things that we probably have ever purchased here, in my opinion, not Sarah's, has been the tractor. It's the one thing that I have probably learned the most from. And in my opinion, we wouldn't be doing anything that we're doing without it. Well, if Sarah doesn't want to talk about the tractor, that's just fine by me. It's understandable. We got the tractor in March of 2017, and it's been a huge learning curve for me. There's been a lot of repairs on it. It's a pretty old machine though. So it's a 1949. I know based on the stamp that is on the motor, that the motor was made March 28th, 1949. So it's always hard to tell with these tractors what was done over the years, you know, what parts were replaced. Was this tractor destroyed at one time? And then they took another tractor and basically built one tractor out of both tractors. That's hard to say. But for all intents and purposes, it's a 1949 to me. And it's pretty cool. They knew what they were doing back then. It's pretty impressive, all the little gadgets. I won't go into great detail on the tractor for all the nerds out there. If they're tractor nerds, they probably know everything there is to know about it. But I will show you a few different cool things that I think are pretty neat on it. This right here is the fuel shut off. So you got to turn that on. It's got that sediment bowl with a whole bunch of crap in it, as you can see. One thing that I did add to the tractor was a battery disconnect. That's right here. It's just basically a 100 amp battery disconnect switch. The reason I added that was I did have one of these go bad on me. And I was about 30 feet away from the tractor and it tried to start. And thankfully it wasn't in gear or anything like that. But that made me nervous enough to put a battery disconnect on it. Just to have one extra safety feature too for the kids. Although they know not to touch things and they're pretty good at it. The cool old switch here, that's the starter switch. So when you go to start it up, basically you just turn the power on. I replaced the ignition key with an ignition switch. That way I could easily just kill it if I needed to while I was out in the field. Basically just push that, pull that, make sure it's in neutral. And there she wanted to start right there. Pretty simple. Make sure you got the gas on. Otherwise you'll, it'll let you know you run out of gas after a couple of minutes of cruising around. So had that happen a time or two. This here is all brand new this year. They had a piece that was in here that got busted off or they, they hammered it off. Well anyways, it's supposed to have this pin that goes all the way through the rear so you don't end up busting these ears off. And so I replaced that. That was a little bit of a to-do. I had to drill out the old one and there's a sleeve that goes in there and I know it works. I bought this rocker online. It's pretty cool. If anybody's been paying attention, they're yelling at me for running gear on the top. I know I'm not supposed to be running gear on the top, but for whatever reason, the pin that I have isn't long enough to go through the bottom. So I think I'm gonna have to get in there and do a little sanding. So calm down on that. It's okay. Probably the first thing that I bought when I got the tractor was that cover right there for the, for the PTO. I don't want to end up with my shirt or my sock or a kid's arm or anything else. And that, that thing won't stop turning ever. That's the one thing about these old tractors is, you know, in a way they call them widow makers or whatever, because nothing stops them. You know, I've told Sarah, if I, if I'm out on the tractor and I have a heart attack, it's either going to end up in the pond or hit a tree or flip over in the ditch because there's nothing that stops these things. It just keeps going. So this one's a four speed with reverse. It does have a transmission and I still, I put a video out asking for guys help and I'll just mention it here again. It has a transmission with a high, low gear, uh, selector. And I have yet to have anybody figure out exactly what transmission it is. So there's some smart person watching this video. What transmission has a handle like that? I've only seen one other one online with the hole in that exact spot. All of the other ones that have the cable, uh, cable switch, that hole is actually up on top. It's about an inch up. So this one's a little bit different. Uh, they had cut a hole in the side here, uh, to access inside. There's kind of like a, a spring and a bolt that hooks to a pin for the transmission for that. Um, other than that, I converted it to, uh, to 12 volt. That was one of the other earlier things that I did and put this alternator in. Um, I've replaced the head gasket. Uh, I've done all sorts of stuff. So when Sarah's joking about not wanting to hear another dang thing about the tractor, you can believe that I've talked her ear off about this tractor. So, but I'll tell you this, I've never heard her complain when, uh, when the driveway's clear of snow and she didn't lift the finger. So I'll tease her there a little bit. Well, this is implement row. This is where I store all the stuff on the edge of the woods here. I got quite a few different things over the past few years. I've done pretty good. I think as far as cost is concerned, um, some of these, uh, can really do some amazing stuff. As a matter of fact, it might kind of sound silly for this video, but I picked a small piece of land and went out and used these to show you guys exactly what they can do. So I hope you appreciate the effort that I put in for that. I'm not going to do anything. I don't have anything planned to do with that, that land. So, uh, it's just gonna just a small little spot just to kind of show you what it can do. This here is an old John Deere disc harrow. This was a gift from my neighbor. Uh, super, super awesome gift. I, um, I think I told the story in another video, so I'll keep, keep it short, uh, for this video. But how I came across this was I was showing my dad and my father in law, the back half of the property. And I walked into the weeds and ran my shin directly into the side of one of these things. Uh, I couldn't, couldn't see the discs under the grass and, uh, ran into it. And my dad and I, and my, uh, father-in-law Mike, we uncovered it. And, and, uh, my dad said, Hey, it's an old disc. He was all excited. And I thought nothing of it. And then later on down the road after the whole garden fiasco we had with the other stupid thing I bought, I thought about this laying out there and wondered what condition it was in and went out and kind of took a better look at it and figured it belonged to my neighbor since he owned my land previous. And I called him up and asked him about it. And he, uh, he said, yeah, if you, uh, if you want to get that thing unburied out there, it's yours. So I took it back to the garage and, and tore it completely apart and did a complete restore and rebuild on it. Boy, it looked beautiful when it, when I first got pulled out of the garage after it got all repainted and everything, but she's got some wear on her now, but it's pretty cool. It's got a couple of, uh, neat things. It's got this adjustment handle here with all these notches. And basically you just, as you pull this forward, it, uh, slides the, um, carriages and starts to add pitch to the discs so that you can get more aggressive with the ground. And actually the back carriage works in the same fashion. Um, basically you can just change, uh, whichever holes you want to be hooked into. And that'll change the pitch of the rear carriage. For the people who had watched the video where I lost this, uh, this piece here, that piece is pretty important to me and I'm glad I found it. The reason is, is because that piece locks in the entire back carriage. So without that piece, and I probably would have a tough time replacing it or finding another one, uh, it would make the entire back carriage unusable. So I'm pretty excited that I happen to come across and find it. This was actually sitting directly next to it out in the weeds. And, uh, I didn't go and uncover this for another year after I had got the disc and I called my neighbor back up and said, boy, uh, there's something else out there I'm interested in. And he said, I tell you what, clean everything out of there. Cause there was a whole bunch of crap laying in there. He said, clean everything out of there and laid out in the yard so I can take a look at what else is in there and it's yours. So I took this back to the, to the garage and completely tore it apart and repainted. And and I, I can't remember the name of the company. It's like Petermans or Peter Smith or some, some company I think in Wisconsin made these. I want to say this thing is probably was made sometime in the eighties versus the disc. I think the disc was made, uh, somewhere in the forties, if I was to guess. Then, uh, I've seen my, uh, my planter, uh, still haven't repaired the front of it. Got to, got to do that still. If you watched that episode where I had a little problem with that, smash that up a bit. Uh, this here is a, uh, a Ferguson double bottom plow. Uh, this one I think was the first implement that we bought. Um, bought it from a guy, uh, south of the twin cities. Um, he wanted a reasonable, reasonable price compared to other people. I had been kind of checking out on Craigslist and so on a trip, uh, down to visit some relatives, Sarah and I stopped in and bought this plow and, and, uh, boy, amazing after, after, uh, trying that, that first stupid harrow the first year that didn't do anything. I'll never forget the look on Sarah's face. The first time I went by on the tractor with this plow and, uh, it, it absolutely just folds the ground right over, no problem. Amazing. This is a Dearborn 19.6. Uh, this here, uh, it doesn't have a chain on it. Typically, I'm just storing that on it. This is a, uh, a back scoop. Um, it's a, only one direction. So, you, uh, hook it to the tractor and you have to drive into whatever you're going to scoop up. And then, uh, you can reach this handle here from the seat and you pull the handle and, uh, the bucket dumps itself. So, it's pretty slick. That was a, a steal of a deal. Um, found this for sale about a half hour from the house and they wanted $20. And I told Sarah, I said, I don't even care if we use it or don't use it. It's, there's more than $20 worth of steel. I'll cut it up and do something with it. If, if we don't do, if we don't use it, this, we're not going to talk about. This was a failed experiment. So, just get that out of your head. This I bought for, uh, I think 75 bucks and they originally had a bail spear sticking out the rear end of it. But when I saw it for sale, I wasn't thinking bail spear. I was thinking other things. So, I ended up making this hilling machine and I, uh, welded these brackets on here and, uh, bought these discs online. And this thing's a pretty cool machine. You can, you can set the pitch and you can, you can hill mound anything you want to plant. It really helps out with our weed control. That way we're not using chemicals or nothing like that. And I've used it in quite a few videos. I'm sure, sure you've seen it, uh, seen it featured in a few, uh, this here, this is kind of sitting a little bit goofy, but this is, uh, get her tipped up here. This here is a back blade that, uh, can be used for moving dirt and everything like that. But mainly I use it for moving snow. So, uh, just hooks up to the tractor on the front end over here with the, with the three point. And, uh, you can push or you can drag, uh, this particular, uh, back blade. You can spin it, uh, 360 degrees depending on which direction you want to move it. And I also made a video where I showed, I made a custom pipe, uh, for the bottom of the blade. What that helps out with is if you have a gravel driveway in the wintertime, when you're plowing snow, you're not, uh, pushing gravel around. So that pipe kind of just floats on top of the gravel, uh, makes it so that, uh, all you're pushing around is snow. This here, this here is another 19-6 Dearborn. Uh, I bought this one, this, uh, back bucket before I bought the other one that I showed you for 20 bucks. I want to say I paid a hundred and something for this one, um, maybe 150 or something. But because this one was not in as good a condition as the one that I picked up, uh, for $20, I ended up doing a little bit of an experiment on this. You'll notice this one might look just slightly different than the, uh, than the other one. And what I did was I took the other bracket that was supposed to come here out the front that would hook to the tractor. And I cut these ears off the back and I welded them off of the back of it. And then I made this, uh, as I made that top piece so that it hooks on with the, uh, with the top link across the back. And then I made my custom sized top link that I don't think they sell or make anywhere else. And, and, uh, that thing works pretty good. It looks a little ridiculous on the back of the tractor, but believe it or not, that thing really, really works good. So if there's something that I want to back up into and scoop, this is the one that can get it done. And, uh, and so far it hasn't failed me at all. I've had it for a couple of years. Well, anyways, that's the, uh, tour down implement row and all the cool farming stuff that, uh, goes along with the tractor. Boy, I don't know if we'd be doing as much as we're doing without that tractor. That thing sure has saved us and, uh, sure has proven, proven to be a good asset to what we're doing here. Um, anytime we need to run around and pick something up, let's hop on the tractor and, and go do it. If this is the first video in the series that you're, uh, enjoying and, and you've made it through my implement rant, I want to say thank you. Um, I want to say hit that like button. Of course, everybody says that you got to say that. Otherwise people don't do it. Hit that like button. And then, uh, then YouTube thinks it's a good video. So they'll, they'll show it to other people and give them an opportunity to watch it too. So anyways, uh, thank you for watching. Have a wonderful evening. Well, we're back into the repair shop.