how to get started with Dexter cattle: stock land fences housing and equipment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DzKqcvQxcUc
People & Blogs
 Hi, I'm Pete and welcome to Just a Few Acres Farm. If this is your first time visiting us, we have a small livestock farm of about 45 acres in upstate New York. We raise cattle, pigs, chickens, and turkeys. We have Dexter cattle. We have about 30 head and we love Dexters. They're the perfect breed for starting out with a small homestead or a small farm doing direct-to-consumer sales. If you're thinking about getting started with your own Dexters, then this is the video for you. I'm going to talk about what to look for when you buy animals, when is the best time to buy them, what kinds of infrastructure you need, fences and barns, what equipment and tools do you need, how much hay you'll need to feed them, how much land they take up. I'm going to try and cover it all, soup to nuts, so stay tuned. And while you're here, Ezra and I would like to ask you to please subscribe to our channel. It's what keeps us making videos. Thank you. Let's start with how to buy Dexters. My recommendation, if you can, is to buy bred cow calf pairs. That is a mama cow with a calf that she had by her side and that mama cow is also bred with a calf for next year. The reason I recommend that is because you know that the mom is a proven mom and you're kind of getting a twofer. You get a bred cow, you get a calf the next year, you're all set as far as breeding the cow. I also recommend that you buy registered stock. Dexters that are registered either through the ADCA or the PDCA and they should be genetically tested so you know what you're getting. How can you locate and buy Dexters? Well, I prefer buying directly from the breeder because you know what you're getting. You can go to the breeders farm, see how the animals were raised. You can interact with the animals before you buy them and you get some history on the animal. Buying in an auction is a buyer beware situation. You really don't know what you're getting when it walks through the ring. Heck, for all you know, it could be a small Angus that they're labeling as a Dexter. Before you make your Dexter purchase, you want to evaluate the animal and I have a whole video on that which I'll put up here, looking at the body condition of the animals and the temperament. I would say that temperament is really the number one thing if you're starting a small farm or a homestead. You want to make sure that the previous owner has raised them hands-on and they're comfortable around people. So look for animals with a good temperament like Prudence here. You should be able to lay your hands on them and they shouldn't be afraid of you. Nothing can be more important when you're putting your family around 800 pound animals. When's the best time to buy Dexters? Well, if you're buying cow-calf pairs, per my recommendation, it revolves around calving season. In a cold climate like ours, calving season starts in April, time to when the grass starts growing and also coinciding with the end of mud season. And it really extends through July. So if you're buying cow-calf pairs, you want the calf to be on good footing before you change its environment. Which means you're looking at buying Dexters in the fall. September, October, depending exactly on when the calf was born, you want the calf to have three or four months under its belt at its home farm before you move it. Locating Dexters for sale isn't always easy. They're not like Angus where every neighboring farm seems to have a few. You need to go looking. And the best resources I found for that are going on the American Dexter Cattle Association website or the Purebred Dexter Cattle Association website. Looking into your region on the website and finding Dexter Farms near you and giving them a call. Usually their contact information is right there on the website. If they don't have any for sale, at least they can point you in the right direction. The other resource you have is to contact your regional director through the ADCA or PDCA. And they should know the farms within their region and know of any Dexters for sale. This is Titus, one of our bulls, and he has a great temperament. He was raised hands-on every day. Now if you're starting a herd, I do not recommend that you get a bull. Bulls can be tricky to handle and sometimes they don't know their own strength. So you got to kind of keep your eyes open when you're around them. Plus, you just can't justify feeding a bull for the little bit of work it's going to be doing breeding a few animals. Artificial insemination is the way to go. And the bonus to artificial insemination is you can choose which bull you want to breed to every year and really increase the genetic diversity in your herd. That's a great thing. Thank you, Titus. How much land will you need? Well, I usually figure a half acre per full grown animal of good grazing ground. That means ground that's been seeded with perennial grazing crops. If you're making your own hay, you should probably double that to an acre and that'll give you some room to both rotationally or mob graze your Dexters as well as allow excess growth to take hay. Obviously, this land requirement varies widely by climate. I'm telling you what we need here in the northeast where we get a lot of rain comparatively. If I were growing Dexters in, say, Montana or some prairie state, I'd probably have to adjust that figure upward. When it comes to fences, I see overbuilt fences all the time. These monstrous six or seven wire perimeter fences. The thing to remember is that a well-fed animal won't test the fence and there's no need to spend all that money building complicated fencing. We run a two-wire fence with T-posts brace so that we can tension the wires and the cattle never get out of that. A calf might go under it once in a while, but the calf always wants to get back to its mama, so it's really not a big deal. These two-wire fences with T-posts are great because as we change our mind about the way we want to graze our land, they're easy to pull up and move and the hardware can just be taken apart and reused. They're really efficient. Here's something I learned early on. Don't buy fence chargers from big box stores. They suck. They're not very powerful. They're sealed boxes. You can't repair them if something breaks or if they get hit by lightning. There's no fuse in this thing. It stinks. Buy your fence charger from a dealer. Buy it from someone who knows the ins and outs of the product. This is an awesome fence charger. It is openable. You just open this cover here. It's all modular inside, so you can replace components if they go bad. It's got lightning protection on both sides on the line voltage side. It's not plugged in now because it's winter and we don't need the fences charged. But it's got protection on the input side, and it's got lightning protection on the output side in case one of the fence wires gets hit by lightning. It's all repairable. It's made in the USA and it ain't a heck of a lot more than this charger. My philosophy on charger size is the hotter the better. I don't think you can oversize a fence charger. We keep our lines clear all summer of brush and other things that grow up around so that if the cow touches the fence, they'll remember it. You want a good hot zap and you can't go wrong if you size your fence charger for the next up from what you think you'll need because eventually you're going to need it. Here's the exception to my minimalist fencing philosophy. We bring our cattle in for the winter to a winter pasture and feed them hay out of the barn. So for that area, we want a real heavy fence to make sure that they stay in. So for that we use woven wire, wood posts at 12 foot on center, and the wire is four foot high. Nothing gets through this. That keeps the cattle from getting out either late in the season when we don't want them to head out and crop the grass too low or too early in April when it's still muddy and they could wreck the pastures. So this fence is great for keeping them in. We don't have very much of it, just this one small field. The other thing you'll probably want to invest in is some kind of movable fencing so that you can mob graze or move your paddocks quite often to keep the cattle from overgrazing. I have some tips on that. First we went to an unnamed big box store and bought this system. These plastic posts are about two bucks a piece and poly wire which has three strands of stainless steel in it. Again, this stuff stinks. These posts after about being stepped in about 10 times wind up with this tab breaking off when you step on it to put it in. They bend if there's any tension on them and they stay bent. These things break. You can see where the little retainers broke here or they break clean off when the cattle put pressure on the fence. They're terrible and you can't really recycle them. I mean it's plastic and a little bit of metal. So we quit using this crap. This is what we went to. This is a steel rebar post. Again, it's only about two bucks still with a step in on the bottom. Now these step ins are crap so we wound up welding some pieces of thicker metal to them and we wound up sharpening the points of them so they're easy to put in and are rocky ground. These things will last forever. If they bend, we just bend them back. No big deal. The insulators you can move up and down. If you break an insulator you can replace it with a new one. These things are great and if you ever do have one that is not usable anymore it's scrap metal. It's great it can be all recycled. And we use these poly wire rolls. Actually this is called poly rope. You can see how much thicker it is than this awful stuff. I mean look at the difference. And I believe it has six hot wires in it. And believe me, one of the ways I test fences is I'll lay my hand on the fence. This barely gives me a twitch. This thing will make my head see stars. So there's a big difference. You're going to pay a lot more for this. This comes from Premier One. But it's worth it in the long run. This fence will last you a long time. The initial investment doesn't become that big a deal. If you're raising dexters you're going to need a source of hay. And you're going to need to have to store hay. Figuring out how much hay you need is a complicated thing. A mature extra cow will eat about 25 pounds a day. And I have a whole video on that subject which I'll put up here again. But how long you feed hay depends on how heavily loaded your land is. Here we feed hay for 150 days a year, give or take, from mid-November through mid-April. And the reason we start feeding hay in mid-November is because all of the grass in our pasture has been grazed by then. Our land is more heavily loaded. If your land is lightly loaded then you can stockpile grass and feed your cattle through into the snowy weather on that stockpiled grass. So it's going to take some time, a few years for you to figure out how much grass you're growing and how much your animals eat and where the balance of hay is. The source for your hay is something that you need to carefully consider probably with a pencil and paper in front of you. You have the choice of either buying in hay or making your own hay. Now making your own hay requires about twice as much land as just doing summer grazing. It also requires a full line of haying equipment which includes a tractor, a mower, a rake, and a baler at minimum plus wagons to haul the hay around. If you're going to an auction and buying quasi-junk for these things you're probably going to pay around $7,000 total and you're going to have a bunch of pieces of equipment that you need to put in a lot of work on to keep running and have some mechanical aptitude to do so. So my recommendation is if you have a small herd, say less than 20 head, it's definitely going to make sense for you to buy in your hay unless you have a burning desire and childhood memories of making your own hay and want to go that direction. We concern ourselves a lot with the quantity and quality of the hay we put in the front end of the animal but we also need to be quite concerned with what comes out the other end of the animal because there's a lot of it. And this starts a little discussion I want to have about what tools and equipment that you need to take care of your first dextres. You're going to need a way to deal with all that manure. When they're out in the fields in the summer, obviously it's fertilizer in place, but when they're in the barn and shelter in the winter, they're going to accumulate a manure pack and you need a way to get rid of that. We have a small manure spreader and it works okay for our size herd. It's undersized, but you can get by with a wagon, a trailer, or even the bed of a pickup truck if you only have a few animals and you hand fork manure out. And then you can pile it and compost it and deal with it that way. You'll need fence building and repair tools and parts. You know, it's as simple as a set of good pliers. We keep all of our fencing stuff in this bin and we just put it in the wagon when we go out to fix fence, which happens a lot. I mean, there's always maintenance to do on fences, but it's got extra parts of everything insulators, you know, different kinds of insulators, insulated wire for making transitions around gates and corners, tensioners, crimping tool and packs of crimps for when we have a break in the wire a deer runs through it or something like that. So it's all in here, all the bits and pieces and it comes in handy all the time. We're not talking about a big investment for all this stuff. You're going to buy most of it when you build your fences anyway and then you'll have extra stock to fix them with. You'll need a small pen to catch cattle in for pregnancy checking, taking care of any illness, etc, etc. This is an 8x12 pen with a head gate at one end. You'll need a way to restrain your cattle and a head gate is pricey. You can get away with a halter in the beginning and do just fine by tying the halter to a stout post and restraining the animal that way. And you're going to need the equipment to move the hay. If you're making or buying large round bales, you're going to need a tractor with a bale spear so you can pick them up and move them around. And that's quite an investment. Small square bales are easier to deal with if you're just starting out because you can move them yourself and stack them yourself, but you'll still need a way probably to transport them if you're buying them into your farm. A wagon or a trailer, buy the pickup load works, but you'll make an awful lot of pickup truck loads to get enough hay for the winter for your cattle. You'll need a loose mineral feeder that has a cover on it to keep the mineral from getting wet. I don't recommend using lick blocks because I don't think that the cattle can get enough of the needed nutrition out of them. Loose mineral lets them take in as much as they want. Certainly not in the beginning, but later on you may want to invest in some equipment and tools to take care of calving season and anything that might come up from a veterinary point of view for your cattle. Of course, you can hire these things out to a veterinarian as well, but that gets expensive when you have more and more head of cattle. So here's some things that we use all the time, most of them in calving season. An electric dehorner, whoops, which looks like this. Works really good for dis-budding calves at a couple days of age. We used to use this horn paste, but we had mixed results with it. It worked okay. Sometimes we would get these funny things that look like scurs and it would get on their ear and put a hole in their ear. So we don't use that anymore. Our veterinarian supplied us with lidocaine for numbing the calves before we do the horn burning and an analgesic. This is meloxicam, which we give to the calves for sort of post-procedure pain. Blue coat is a handy thing to have around. It's an antiseptic spray that stays on no matter what and helps if there's a wound or with dehorning and castration. All you need for castration is a sharp pair of shears and the fortitude to do it. Tagging tools, obviously you probably don't need to tag your cattle if you only have a few, but as you have more, tagger and tags, hypodermics, syringes, not a lot of stuff here, but it really comes in handy for making your operation more efficient. One of the great things about dextr is they'll actually thrive in adverse conditions. When it comes to housing for your animals, it may not be required. Our cattle will often stand out in the snow during a snowstorm when they have access to the barn, but it's strongly recommended. They really should have at least a three-sided building to get into when the winds are blowing to help keep them warm and keep the snow off of them. We also feed our hay under cover and we find that that makes our hay feeding operation a lot more efficient. There's less waste. So I'd recommend that as well. If you only have a few head, it can be a really small structure. And like I said, it really only needs to have three sides with the open side facing away from the wind. Of equal importance to a place to get out of the weather in the winter is a place where the animals can get under some shade in the summer. I think cattle suffer more in the hot weather than they do in the cold weather. And having a place to get out of the sun is absolutely essential for a black colored animal like a dexter. And of course, you'll need a dry place to store your hay. It doesn't need to be a big barn like this. I've seen people store hay for a few head of cattle in their garage. But you need a place to keep it out of the weather. Now, if you're buying in large round bales and they're net wrapped or plastic wrapped, you can get away with storing them outside. But expect some losses from rot and damp in the hay. A few final summary thoughts on purchasing and starting your own dexter herd. I can't stress enough how important it is to buy registered stock. If you're going to spend your money someplace, spend it on that. Otherwise, you have no idea what you're getting. And it also helps you if you ever want to sell your stock. You know what it is. Secondly, don't spend a lot of money on infrastructure when you start out. Build the minimum necessary to get your herd going. It allows you to get familiar with the animal you're growing and what their needs are. And then you can build to suit later on. I hope this video was informative. And as always, thanks for joining me. And I'll see you next time. Listen to the pigs snoring. Now I know what my wife has to put up with.