Growing Potatoes The Cheap and Easy Way!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e2pJO_dSbnA
Education
 music well hey everybody peace and blessings to everyone so today i'm going to give you guys an update on how the garden is doing also on today i am going to plant these seed potatoes so i need to hurry up and get them going um before we're past that mark so it's the middle of february here in san antonio and i want to go ahead and get these seed potatoes planted um so this is a seed potato harvest blend it has like the purple potatoes the yellow potatoes and the red so we're going to go ahead and get these planted and i'm going to give you an update on how everything else has been growing on in the garden all right so everything is going along pretty good we have some cabbages over here that are really forming um the oregano has been thriving it withstood the the winter when we had a little frost our thyme plant is growing back also the mexican mint is growing back and we have cilantro we also have a little parsley that's peeking through over there unfortunately our basil died but it was expected so we're not too sad about that over here we have more cabbages look at these cabbages they are growing and really forming i have to get out here and treat them again because you as you can see you have the little bugs that's kind of wearing them also we have broccoli look at the broccoli is growing the broccoli is coming through so i'm excited we have a lot of broccoli heads that are growing also over here we have the brussels sprouts that are growing as well if you can look down in there these are brussels sprout plants um we have some more over here and then we have more broccoli that's growing so i'm excited about the broccoli all right and so over here we have more cabbages um we have some radishes that i'm gonna harvest today because they have been in here too long i think i've letting them i've let them get too big so but the spinach is doing well look at that spinach the spinach is doing very well we have some more cabbage over here we have some lettuce and we have some carrots so everything has been growing pretty good now over here we have a we have some beets that are growing um we have our turnip greens so i am gonna harvest some turnips today if you look down in there we have quite a few of these turnip greens that are they're ready they can be harvested if you look there this is like a a trio so i'm gonna harvest some and then plant some more seeds the only thing i don't like is the turnips are pretty good but big but the leaves we didn't really get a lot of leaves growth but i had to get out here and treat it because these bugs are really eating them up and so here go to college they're growing and then we have some swiss short over there so if anybody i have idea what i can put down for these greens what can stop these you know the bugs that are eating them up please let me know all right so i'm going to plant the potatoes over here in these two boxes and then i put some compost um dirt that i already had i put it in here and then i'm just going to mix it with some miracle grow and some other topsoil dirt that i have all right i'm going to put this dirt in here this is just some pot and so on this might get expensive so well Since these are full, I'm just going to put the next one. I'm going to put the next one in the middle of the middle of the middle of the middle of the middle. So, can you see what we have here? Alright. So this looks like a red one. So I'm going to put that down there and cover it up. And get another one. Right there. And get this one over here. I'm not putting them too far down. But just down there enough. I don't know. I'm not supposed to put the edge where I'm supposed to put in the dig a hole. I'm going to put the roots. Put that one right there. And we have another one. Right here. Put this one right there. And cut them up. So I have one more. So I'm thinking about for this one. I'm just going to put this one in another box. And... Go from there. Alright. So I have another box. This is the biggest one I can find. It's a little smaller than the other two. But it's going to work. Go ahead and put the soil in here. So this almost fills this box up. So I'm going to put the soil in here. So this almost fills this box up. So I'm going to put this one in here. So that's what you want to do. I'm going to put the soil in here. Now I'm going to put it in here. So that's what you want to get this one. The soil is going to get this one in here. so this almost feels this much so i'm gonna add some of that i'm so here's the two so what i'm also gonna do i'll probably get another bag just to fill these all the way up to the top i uh i under misestimated the water coming all the way over here so once they still grow and i'll just use the little bit of the water in the canal and uh do these hopefully it doesn't mess the box so i wonder should i put it across the board oh we're gonna see it's gonna be trying on all right so i got the potatoes done so next thing i'm gonna do um probably tomorrow i have some seedlings i'm gonna go ahead and store it indoors um so um you know when the spring kick in so still got a little time but i'm gonna go ahead and start them indoors so i can transplant them um in six weeks so thank you guys for watching my garden channel god bless you eat what you grow and have a growful day