2021 Super Hot Grow Series Ep10 - So Many Peppers
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E46rpW_TeaA
Howto & Style
 Hey everybody, welcome to my channel. Today is September 25th, 2021 and it is time for the next pepper update. Today is going to be a little different. I'm going to go through the garden quickly and then I'm going to go and show you all of the plants in details. That way you can see the plants, what they look like, the fruits and all that stuff. So maybe it will help you determine if you want to grow some of these varieties in the future. So quickly we're going to go through and look at this system, my plant in the hydro system. This is the Kangstar white thai. Man, how beautiful this is. I just love the way it grows, produce so many fruits. I use it almost daily, but they keep producing more. So that's the beauty of the Kangstar white thai. And in the last video, people thought this was some kind of other medicinal plant. This is actually a Japanese maple. So that's just to clear things up. So let's go outside and look at the plants in details. Okay. So quickly, we're going to show you what the plants look like. They are all beautiful, producing like crazy. And then we'll take each of these plants and I'll describe in details for you guys. So here's some more pepper plants here. Look amazing. Lots and lots of fruits and the white thai patch over there. That one's doing amazing as well. Look at that. How beautiful that is. And then we have some more over here. All grown very nicely, looking really healthy right now. The big lemon starburst that I'm entering in the contest. Here are some plants in the extra raised beds. And some more plants that I'm testing with right here. And in the last video, I forgot to show the super pekin. So it's growing really nice right here. And some of the plants in the pots here. And then here are some other plants that are grown in pots as well. Larger pots. Look at all of those peppers on here. And then starscreams. Look how big those plants are. Okay. So let's go and talk about these plants one by one. Okay. First up, we have my starscream. This is the long version. And then I use that long version to cross with a chocolate linzo. And this is the result of this. So I think I need to come up with a name very soon. That way I don't have to talk about this cross with this. It just needs a proper name. But it's extremely productive. Very nice tasting pepper. Not very spicy. So it can be used with your meal. With cooking. And because the pods are not super big. They're super crunchy. So they're nice to be eaten raw. And I just love them with Thai foods and Chinese foods and stuff like that. They're just amazing, guys. And again, fresh is best. So come out here and just yank them off. And they're just going to be just so good. So you see the plant habit. They're very, very productive. You see hundreds and hundreds of pods. The best stage for these plants is around this right here. Right before they turn completely ripe. When they get to the chocolate color. They're good for cooking. Because they do get a little softer. So if you want the nice crunch and the punch and all that stuff. This is the best stage right here. They do have a little blush when they get a lot of sun. And you can see they change into many different colors. So you get really green when they start out. And then it goes to a lighter green color, actually. And then you get a little blush of purple. And they do go to a little orangish color. And then finally to a chocolate color. But a nice variety. I really love this one right here. I don't think I've sent seeds out for these yet. But I think I will if people are interested. So that is the first one. And next here is my white tie crossed with the lingria. Lingrias are just beautiful varieties. And then I use that to cross it with the white tie. And this is the result of it. It looks very much like the white tie. Except it points down like the lingria. Very productive. Nice flavor. Super crunchy. And you see there's all kinds of different colors on them. So they'll start out with light green right here. And then they'll go to the white color. And then they'll go to the orange color. And then finally the red color. So again the red is good for cooking. If you want to eat them raw. The white color or the orange is the best. Because that's when they have their... Sort of like the optimal flavor. With the crunchiness. And the freshness as well. So these are best when you pick them fresh. And they grow so much. There are just so many peppers on these. And once we get to the white tie. You're going to see that the habit is a little bit different. The white tie points up. Actually the one I showed you in hydroponic early in the video. That's what it really looks like. But so here's the difference. So beautiful variety. You can grow this as ornamental plants. And they taste good. So I need to also come up with a name for that one. Okay next here we have my chocolate starscream. I just had to pull it out of that spot right there. To show you the full potential of this plant. Look at how big this is. And they're not super productive. But they do produce a lot. Just not as productive as the first two plants that I showed you guys. But the pods I think is just gorgeous. So the plants are you know can get enormous. So here's the pod. The final stage is a chocolate color. So as soon as it is turned chocolate. That's when you should harvest them. If you wait longer they do get a little softer. I guess that's just with all varieties. But I usually like them like this right here. A little chocolate starting to turn. That's when I use them. And they're pretty big. They don't grow like in clusters like the other ones. But there are lots of flowers and plants. I mean pods. And they do produce much better. When the temperature drop to like in the low 80s. You know to the 70s. That's when they would do the best. But yeah. Still productive. Just they don't grow in cluster. But the shapes are all over the place. Because they're still in the very early stages of the hybrid. But again the plant is enormous. Okay. Next we have my lingria. And I love this varieties guys. It is so productive. And it almost like it grows in bunches. Like each of these is like a branch. And the branch will have like a bunch of pods on them. So they look really cool. So you know sometimes the branch will have more branches. And then that branch will have a bundle of its own peppers. And again they're pretty ornamental looking. You see. So they again they start out green. Light green. And then they turn sort of white. See it's like a white-ish color. And then they'll go to this golden color kind of. And finally. Actually then orange. And then finally red. But these pods here. They have these beautiful stingers. They just look dangerous. And a lot of them are just like that. You see they have these crazy hooks. And they just look mean. But they're beautiful. They taste pretty decent. I like the way they taste. It has a little sweetness to them. And then a little kick. But the best thing about these is the way they grow. You see these little hooks right here. And they're just so productive. And so that's another reason why I love them. You see. So grow these as ornamental plants. And I think it's going to look really beautiful in your yard or in small containers. Or even in a large container. And the shape is just really nice. Especially when they have hooks or stingers like that. So you see how each bunch is a branch. Okay. So let me show you another lingria that is very similar. Okay. So here is the other lingria. And I grew this in an Amazon bag. When you buy like a frozen food from them. They'll give you this bag right here. And you can use that to grow if you want to. And you see each of these is like a branch. But it looks like a bundle. And one plant will have like a ton of little bundle I guess. And each bundle or each branch will just have lots and lots of fruits. And you see how productive they are. And I picked countless amount of peppers off of these. And they just. It seems like these here. The more you pick them. The more new flowers will form. So if you don't pick them as fast. The new flowers sometimes will just drop. But if you keep picking all of the reds one here. And then that allows the plants to focus energy on the new flowers. And then you get more pods at the top. So keep picking these. When you get them. And you see. They're very interesting. So these are not. The shapes don't look like the other ones. These are longer. So sometimes I separate them out. And I collect seeds. And then I grow them. Separately the next season. To see the different traits. But the other one is pretty consistent. With the way it looks. So I'm going to keep growing that. So here's just the long version. But that is just beautiful. Okay. Next up we have the Queenie. This is the sweet variety. There's also a spicy one. And the one behind it is actually a spicy one right here. The plant kind of got stunted. But the pods are like much thicker too. So it looks a little bit different. But here is the sweet one. And this one actually came from the seeds that I saved from a spicy plant. So that's very interesting. So I might have to grow this again to see if the heat. You know come back. Or it will just disappear completely. But look at this. It looks very much like the lingria. And the white tie. And you see it grows again in the bundle. But you see the pods are square at the top. Instead of pointed and sharp. And just lovely variety for growing as ornamental plant. You see how there. This is the ground right here. So I think it's under a foot tall. But it's pretty wide. And these taste pretty decent. So sometimes I just. You know I grow. Go in the yard. I do some work. I just pick one. And I eat them. So it has a nice sweetness. And a little tanginess to it. And then you get that peppery flavor. And because of the peppery flavor. You expect the heat to come. But no heat. So very nice to eat. Just you know as you work in the garden. And I think it's because you know these are peppers. It's probably you know packed with vitamins in there. So it's maybe just you know healthy for you just to eat. And for those that don't like pepper with heat. But you like the pepper taste. This is it right here. Very nice and pretty. Very compact. And I think it does spread out more. If you allow it more space. Okay. So next here we have my stargazer. And this variety was. I think I mentioned in the last video. I lost the seeds for them. And then I finally found it. And I was very happy. So I grew it right away. I grew a few plants. But this is the only one that I transplanted into the raised bed. And look at how massive that is. And the habits is very similar to the Starscream chocolate. Except this one is red. But also it is the skin is very wrinkly. The flesh is very thick on the inside. And it has very few seeds. So the taste is sort of like a little sweet. But it is also very spicy. So good flavor. Good plant to grow. And very productive. And it looks beautiful too. So it looks like. You know. Sort of like some kind of Thai variety. But the leaves are Chen Nens. You see. Looks just like the Chen Nens leaves. And let me show you. You see. These are all the peppers. They grow down. So sometimes they blend in with the leaves. So you can't tell they're peppers. But they're everywhere. Until it turns red. And I really love this bright red color right here. Okay. So next to it. We have the Houston White Thai. And this variety was given to me a while back by Vince. And he's a collector of all these different Thai varieties. And he knew that I love the White Thai. So he gave me some Houston White Thai. Which is very similar. And I have grown it ever since. And look at this. Very beautiful. Lots and lots of peppers. And again. And again. The White. The White. Is the best time to harvest them. Even at the Orange stage. They are the best. If you wait until they're red. They get a little softer. And I think those are just good for cooking. And you know. Used to make powder and stuff. But I only use them at this stage right here. That is my favorite. Nice crunch. Good flavor. Packs a little heat. Actually a lot of heat. And look at that guys. It's just beautiful. Imagine you have like a roll of these. Just you know. Roll right down on the side of your house somewhere. It's going to be very pretty. Okay. So since we're talking about the White Thai. Here is the Kangstar White Thai. So you can see the Houston White Thai. Is slightly different. And these are a little bigger. And they grow in clusters like this. And that is the reason I love the White Thai. The beautiful clusters. And when the plant gets to the full potential. It gets clusters and clusters and clusters. And it gets enormous. And it is just a beautiful plant with good flavor. I just love them. My favorite. Probably all time. On the top list. So. I think a lot of people are growing this. And if you are. Congrats. Also send seeds out. If you have people that want to grow these. I highly recommend growing them. They're just amazing peppers. There you go. Here you go. There you go. There you go. okay next up on the list we have the jay's peach goes cross with a primo and this is a very interesting and beautiful variety and we finally got some pods that just changed color so here is what the uh the pods look like they're just gorgeous all of them have these little stingers at the bottom they're kind of round which is really cool like a ball and then at the bottom they have this this nice stinger and the final color is orange i'm not sure if it would turn red i forgot so i'll have to check back um i grew it i think last year i just didn't get the right pod so uh i decided to grow it again but there they are guys look at the pods right here see this very interesting beautiful plant the leaves look just like a reaper leaves so they they grow pretty big if you have it in a large area give it space okay next to it i have my beautiful uh variety these are orange flame and then i have the red flame and then this year the orange flame turned out to be a yellow one so i picked one yellow pod this year this is the yellow one here it hasn't changed yet so i will show you later the reason i call these the flames is if you turn it upside down it looks just like a flame and then here's the orange one the orange ones are really cool and then very productive the pods are really nice good flavor and uh they just look gorgeous guys let me show you a pod right here you see and um there's some in there so i have a few plants they're loaded down with pods it's hard to see because the pods are you know the same color as the leaves so they're all mixed up in there so later maybe another the next update i will be able to show you the yellow one which is this one here but um they can grow pretty large the reason they're kind of short right now is because i put them so close to each other and they're competing for resources so if you separate them they they can get huge okay so next we have this is an extra plant but i will show you the full grown one this is the uh sweet star scream crossed with the linzo so last year i grew multiple varieties of star cream the actually multiple plants and one turned out to be sweet and i actually love the flavor of the sweet one but i prefer a little heat into it so i took the linzo pollen and pollinated it and i actually got the heat so this is a very nice productive variety i need to give it a name and it turns out chocolate so which is great and you see how productive they are even in a small size plant like this so you can grow them in containers which i will show you soon small containers large containers you can put them in the ground and regardless of the heat whatever they grow just fine they they are the first few to produce even in you know 100 plus degrees fahrenheit in texas they don't care so let me show you a few other ones because i love them so much i grow everywhere okay so here's one and this is in a five gallon container and i actually cut this plant really early to keep it short and you can see the branches kind of like span out to the side and it remained pretty low which is nice because sometimes we get a lot of wind and if the plant is too tall in these buckets it either either blow the bucket over when they're what there's no water in there when everything dries up or it just snap the branches so i kind of like to keep it low so that's one and let me show you another one that is super super productive okay this one here and you see this is a very small container and uh well actually it doesn't look super productive anymore because i picked off all of the fruits but here are the remaining ones you see it looks pretty nice so if you have no space definitely grow it in a container and you will still get a lot of pods and you see there there's lots and lots of flowers i'm not sure the camera shows it but every little branch you get like five or six little little peppers and flowers and see they they keep coming back so the more you harvest on these plants the more they produce so which is really cool so pick pick all of these how you see anytime you see these chocolate ones pick it off that way it can focus on the new flowers and then you get more new fruits but that is a very productive variety there okay here is another one and this one i actually didn't cut the top i just let it grow and it got a little taller than the others that you just saw and this one here you see lots and lots of pods all over the place and again see it turns chocolate right here which is really nice good flavor not not too crazy heat but it does pack a punch and the flavor is great so every meal i'll come out and either pick a few of these to eat because they're they're not too big so um they're just perfect sort of like bite size and they grow so much so you need you know just one plant and that should be enough for the whole family but uh you see how beautiful that is it's just grows really nice grow very easy and produce well in the summer so you're looking for varieties that just doesn't care how hot it is it will just produce these other ones that you should grow okay next up is a very special variety and this is called the crisscross and the seeds from these came all the way from norway my buddy chris in norway and the person that created the the system in the beginning of the video the hydro system yeah he took some seeds i forgot it's a caramel uh something and he crossed it and uh he said the flavor was so good and he recommended that i grow them and uh yeah i'm glad i did look look at these guys uh very interesting shape it's kind of like a circle has a little kind of like a little hole right there and it points uh upward and the pods i think it will ripen up to a caramel so exactly as he described it looked a little different than what he was growing so i'm gonna definitely um show him this and if he wants seeds i have to send it back to him so that he can grow them and yeah very interesting it's called crisscross so i'll check to see what uh cross this is and here's the the smaller smaller one so i grew two of them okay so next here we have a variety i call the stargazer gold uh it's different than the stargazer red earlier this one here turns sort of like a golden color at the the best stage and then it'll change to red at the end but it does take a while so i think see that one is sorted to beginning to turn to the red stage but at the best stage where you can harvest and eat that gives you the best flavor it's like a golden color see and the pods uh see it turns it it starts out like this kind of yellowish green and and then it just turns uh to the lighter color and then from that color it stays for a while until it turns orange and then red so it is a beautiful variety i again i mentioned i lost seeds for this and i just found it so i'm growing these again and i'm i'm glad i did because it turns out exactly as i want it sometimes you get a hint of purple right here because it does have the white tie as the parent and uh this variety actually prefer cooler temperature so in the heat of the summer all of the flowers just dropped so now when the temperature is cooled a little bit it's starting to push out pods right here so very excited about these okay next up we have my beautiful lemon starburst and this variety is just amazing guys the pods are just beautiful they do get very big you see here's my hand and occasionally um you know they they get these little stingers those are the ones that i love the most but usually they have this flying saucer shape which is really interesting and uh i'm growing this for a contest but not this not this plant i'll show you the contest plant shortly but that is the lemon starburst um the the cool thing about this is um when you see the plant grow like this before the color changes you don't see any pods until you look down here then you're gonna see a bunch of green pods but then once it starts to change to a yellow golden color man it is just so absolutely gorgeous so here this is what it looks like right here like a lemon and they do get very very big so let's look at the contest plant okay here is the contest plant i have this in a 15 gallon fabric pot i had to move it into the shade a little bit because it was struggling and finally they are starting to push pods you see as i mentioned you gotta lift this up to see the pods at the bottom and uh they're you know they're pushing out pods pretty well there's lots and lots of uh see these are the shapes that i like you see that there's a little stinger at the bottom with the saucer and those are the ones that are cool and every branches right now they're pods you should see the the plants that other members on pepper lovers community are growing it looks way better than this they're like hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of pods this one here i probably gonna get around maybe 50 which is not even close to being you know 10th place last year i think the the the largest plant that produced the most was 300 and something pods it was just ridiculous i've never grown a a lemon starburst that produced that many before okay next up we have the white tie cross with the ahi omni color this cross was almost impossible because all of the seeds that i have collected like maybe 150 seeds or so this is the only plant that came up out of that so it's a very exciting variety and it took a bit of work to get it to grow to this size i mean i thought it was gonna die but anyway here is the plant it is looking gorgeous right now i love the way the pods look you see here i'm not sure how it tastes because i've never had them before this is the first cross f1 and uh it does not like the heat so all of the flowers dropped and this is the only pod that that kind of like sprouted out of all that all of the flowers drop until now that when the temperature is is uh cooling down a little bit and uh we're almost in october and that is uh when they finally push peppers right here so it looks very much like a white tie grows upward doesn't grow in cluster i guess it gets the traits from the omni color so um that is almost an impossible cross that i created so really looking forward to this maybe i'll do a review of this very soon okay next up we have my brazilian starfish this is one of my favorite varieties of peppers to grow and the reason for that is because they are gorgeous and they taste so good guys if you have never grown brazilian starfish before uh add it to your list grow it one time it'll change your mind um the pods are just absolutely gorgeous and uh i guess it resembles like a starfish but um they they turn red at the end this is the as you see the transitioning process right here green to kind of like a darker color right there and then finally to a red color they're very productive and they do prefer the cooler months so in the summer they may struggle a little bit so if you're going to grow them in the heat like in the deserts or places that get really really hot i suggest put them into pots like this and then you can move them around in the crazy heat and that will help reduce the stress and they will produce for you so here and this is one of the plants let me show you the other ones i love these so much so i grow multiple okay here they are they're sitting in the raised bed next to all of the extra plants and you can see um white tie is the extra plant and look at those guys there is one red pod right here let me see if i can show you uh actually it's not quite ready yet but um it will turn red pretty soon you see pretty cool looking pond and uh you see they um they're pretty skinny pepper variety so they they resemble like a vine and stuff like that even if they get a lot of sun they still grow exactly the same way you see very skinny and they spread out a lot so give it a lot of room to span out and you if you uh if your area gets lots and lots of wind you you may need to provide them support when they have too many fruits because the branches could snap they just they are very productive once they start to pump out pods so with the skinny branches like that they could be a problem when you have a lot of wind so um yeah they're just absolutely gorgeous plants produce well taste great and one of my favorite okay next up we have the eagle claw white tie and i got these seeds from a buddy of mine on pepper lovers i love this varieties guys they they don't grow in cluster but they grow white like this and the same process that the white tie go through uh it's um it's white and then it turns orange and red um it grows pretty much the same way it does get pretty big produce a zillion pods and they're longer and they're they're more spread out you know like a part instead of cluster but um if you see a full plant with lots and lots of pods they just look amazing so that is another variety that i always grow because i love uh you know similar to white thai varieties okay next up is my super pekins and there's not much to show for these guys right now because they're just starting to pot up so we may have to revisit later but these are basically same thing as regular pekins except they're much larger uh they do taste better too uh the habits are basically the same they grow they turn red and then the pods will fall off easily so when you pick them when they're red they just they just fall off and the birds love these so when you grow these the birds are going to come to your yard okay next up we have my sweet linzo and this variety is very unique it grows in bunches you see uh so the branches have like a bunch and then from that bunch it grows to another branch and from this branch it could grow some more branches so it's like branches on top of branches on top of branches and the the reason i mean because of that they're just super super productive they're like fruit everywhere and the cool thing about these is like you see the stems they're super super long so they hang down like these lanterns so um you see that's a huge branch right here and that branch has fruits you see that and then from that branch it branched out to more branches and those branches just have fruits you see and same thing with these see that's the branch down there so this is the only variety that i actually maybe another one that has this really unique characteristics and it just is so productive because of that and sometimes you know they they group up together like lots and lots of uh pods for me and you come by you grab it by the bundle and you pull them off and you get like five or six at a time so that is a very cool variety right there and the flavor is great is there very little heat and it's mostly uh sweetness and less heat so i grow them in multiple places so here's another one you see there's a branch right there and you see how it branched out to more branches and you see each of those branches will have their own peppers on it so they grow like in bundles and here is another one you see that you see these bundles here bundles see branches on top of branches so you get pods like that look at that very interesting so i love these okay next up we have the fire blast a friend of ours on pepper lovers community created this variety it's very nice super productive and uh the pods are really nice and tasty they they do pack a punch so uh yeah they're you know i think they're probably um the same heat or a little less than the ghost pepper so i mean to me that that's how they how hot they are but um look how big this plant is it it did struggle a little bit in the beginning branches broke see it could have a larger branch out here but it broke because it grows so big the wind blew it over and it broke and you see so it's kind of like half of the plant left imagine if there's a full plant it gets huge and uh again they're super productive flowers everywhere like hundreds and hundreds of flowers and um i picked a lot of these pots off already so uh the more you pick again the more they produce because you know if you pick off the older pot it it allows the plant to focus on newer pots so that's why you get more so pick always keep picking and just don't leave it that way the energy can be put somewhere else okay guys so lastly we have orange habanero these are just normal habaneros that i got from uh lowe's and look at that they're just potted up very productive i picked a ton of these to make powder already gave a bunch away so uh yeah the video is very long so make sure you check the timeline i just want to give a good description of each plant to show you how beautiful they are and how they grow so thank you so much for watching please like comment and subscribe oh man i almost forgot about this one here just want to show it off a little bit this is the pink tiger that i grew in a can and the pods are just way over ripe so that is a beautiful variety to grow if you love ornamental plants that just look gorgeous so i have another one in the uh the raised bed that i will show you look at that guys it's being covered up down there i think i may overwinter that just dig it out and then you know save it for next year but it is a beautiful plant so imagine just growing a bunch of green plants around it and then put this beautiful purple variegated plants right in the middle as the centerpiece it's gonna look really really pretty