Unlocking the potential of a soil-based economy | FT Food Revolution
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e7ja_3ljCL0
News & Politics
 Soil is Earth's secret solution to climate change, storing about 25% of the world's fossil fuel emissions each year. But intensive farming practices are having a detrimental effect on nature's storage system. Carbon farming, the process of sequestering carbon in soil through sustainable farming methods, improves the quality of soil, giving it a greater capacity to store more carbon. The concept covers two key areas. The avoidance of releasing further emissions, for example by reducing or replacing the use of fertilisers, or by keeping soils covered year round preventing soil oxidation. And the removal of existing CO2 by promoting regenerative agricultural practices such as reducing tillage, using cover crops and rotating crops in fields. Some scientists are concerned that the data needed to reinforce the benefits of carbon farming is not yet available. Currently, the only way to measure soil sequestration is through soil sampling, which is expensive and labour intensive. We expect technologies to improve and to emerge, and to be adopted by protocols, ultimately lowering costs and increasing accuracy. For businesses committing to reduce their carbon footprint, supporting carbon farming and purchasing removed carbon via a verified carbon credit system is one way to offset their own unavoidable emissions. A carbon credit, the most commonly recognised unit, equates to one tonne of removed or avoided CO2. For farmers, the perceived benefits of carbon farming need to outweigh any risks associated with transitioning from intensive to regenerative farming, such as a loss of income due to smaller yields in the short term. For carbon farming to accelerate, we need to have a stable market where the buyer knows the product and the farmer exactly what to do to earn that credit and to create revenues. A marketplace brings both parties together and regulates the process. With a greater commitment to trust, transparency and quality data, the demand for agricultural and other carbon offsetting credits is expected to rise as much as 100 times by 2050. This will not only provide a welcome stream of income for farmers, but over time will improve the biodiversity, fertility, yield and carbon composition of soil, leading to more CO2 being removed from the atmosphere and helping to reach global net zero goals. As long've been which the Bills are done, there will be the context in our national market forless nick, but over time will spend a long road sinceerna's 20124 task. By doing an travels in the way to try to lose our fans and open our social km2 to complete the Cleanse sector. Previously, looking at the trouble, who said that some women won are sweet, by North low income should we get about data and characters? There will be lots of man in the process to get over for those days.