Soil Conservation (Methods To Prevent Soil Erosion)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E7NqNh8PODA
Education
 We know that soil erosion along mountain slopes happens mainly due to the action of running water. So, if we can somehow slow down the speed of running water or allow the water to percolate into the earth, we may be able to reduce the erosion. So, what are the ways by which we can do this? Alright, for this, let's bring up a miniature model of a mountain. See, barriers can be made along points that are of the same height on mountain slopes using natural materials such as stones, grass and soil. Drenches can be dug in front of the barriers to collect water to slow it down. Now, this type of barrier is called a contour barrier. And the ploughing done along these contours is called contour ploughing. Another way to arrest soil erosion is to carve out broad, flat steps along these steep slopes. As you can see, the flatland thus created reduces the speed of water and amount of surface runoff, allowing water to percolate into the soil. It also makes available flat surfaces to grow crops. Now, this method is called terrace farming. And it is well developed and adopted in western and central Himalayas. Thus, soil erosion on hill slopes can be checked by contour barriers and by making flat terraces. But, what about plains? Well, there are other methods to conserve soil in plain areas as well, just like we do on hill slopes. Mulching is a method used to conserve soil. The process of mulching works like this. Organic matter like straw is used to cover the soil and help retain soil moisture. How? It forms a layer between the soil and the atmosphere, reducing evaporation of water from the soil. On top of that, over time, the mulch decays and becomes part of the soil, increasing its fertility and organic content. Another way to conserve soil is by building rock dams. Rocks, sandbags or gravel are piled up along a drainage channel to reduce the speed of flowing water, thereby reducing the extent of soil erosion. Next up, strip cropping. Now, in strip cropping, strips of grass are left to grow between crops. This helps in breaking the flow of the wind, thus arresting soil erosion. All these methods can be used to protect soil from erosion caused by running water. Soil erosion is a very important part of soil erosion. But what about protecting soil in dry regions or coastal areas? In such areas, soil erosion occurs mainly because of wind. In order to reduce the force of the wind, trees are planted in such areas to protect the soil cover and form a shelter belt. These shelter belts have contributed significantly to the stabilization of sand dunes and stabilizing the desert in western India. A protected end result. Soil erosion is located in Resident Evil 2. In siento정 Recorder, this state of the hurricane. When we're complexter used by and after aож pretestation, this state of gearing animals. April 1. Soon, we would begin finishing up with the500. That's 1er to 1. The square root of Quem join our ninth-underland anyways. This system uses 71% reduction in spring mast and isotið-b Надо-B föravioral allows us to게AND ustedes and know that included... partecipated in the yellow precipice or steinary economy. Next, where we would like to keepened in the cooseman that CSKA within 5,000mi nesen, our COOPER stands for safety of states and the west maps. And also if they can get out that area. wissen, they lack8分, maybe there's got any relation