Grow Vegetables in Containers | Fall Vegetables
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eiIyzxhhqhQ
Entertainment
 Hey good people Batavia here. We have a September container garden tour. See you in a few. Okie doke. Quick housekeeping items. Thank yous to those who like, watch, subscribe, comment, and share. Be better garden. We appreciate it. If you haven't subscribed already, consider it. There's a button below. And if you hit the notification bell, you'll be alerted each time I share more. Hashtag Garden Julie. Alrighty, so we've been doing container gardening all summer long. All spring and summer. So there are other videos from this series that I'll drop in the description below. There's a playlist. Today we're going to dig into what I'm growing in containers, which are primarily fall veggies. Yeah, so let's get started. Alrighty, so quick shout out to all of my house plants. Really, there are a couple of flowers here, but most of these are house plants that I've brought out that I'll need to be taking back inside as the weather gets colder. But they have thrived this summer. So I'm super, super pleased with those. And then we have some of the herbs we've been growing all year long. So thyme, oregano, parsley, which is still kicking butt. The cilantro didn't quite make it. I let the candy stevia go to seed, but it's still sweet. So I'm still able to dry this, which I'm looking forward to. The sage is still living and thriving. This will be dried as well. And then we have some of the new additions. So I'm going to actually drop in some footage from about 20 or so days ago when I first transplanted these veggies. So you could see what they looked like then and then we'll walk through what they look like now. Romaine lettuce, some match and claytonia. First time I've grown that. And I was finally able to start tail indoors virtual high fives. I'm so excited about that. Finally got that done. Some pak chu. And then I have some red leaf lettuce. All of these contraptions are to try to deter the stray cats. Not the squirrels, but the stray cats. All right, that's what I got. You can see the growth just over like a three week period. I have been doing the cutting coming in method where I just pinch off the leaves that are on the outside of the plant and allow it to continue to grow from inside as you can see it does. So this has been really cool. This is new for me and it's starting to grow. It clearly likes cooler temps. We're right now kind of midday about 55 degrees Fahrenheit. It's going to warm up to maybe 60 degrees but we are getting a lot of cool nights like nights that are in the 40s or 50s. So I'm actually let's unwrap this for a quick moment. These are the kale plants. I would not normally plant kale this close together but because I know based on the time I have left these really won't get to full size. So I went ahead and kind of clustered them in. I thought this was ruby red kale that I started but the leaves immediately didn't look like that. Actually not ruby red kale, red boar kale. Is that purplish kale? So I thought it was that but these these look like turnips to me. So you guys tell me what you think. It's either turnips or it's mustard that I started and these don't look like mustard leaves to me. But let me know what y'all think. The kale we know is hardy and I'm considering one of two things. Either taking it inside and you know letting it grow once we get to that colder colder weather. While it will survive as far as the root the leaves really won't be edible once they get to the point of freezing freezing freezing. So I'm also considering putting these containers inside of one of the garden beds that I have kind of the hoops on and covering it with plastic. So to be determined on that. Next up is my bok no bok choy and I'm almost like 99% sure it's bok choy because it took me a while to find my bok choy seeds. But I'm going to put in some footage of the culprit that I found yesterday which has been eating away at it. See if we can find them today. We'll drop in a picture of what has been gnawing away at it and it's the cabbage moth. I found a couple of the green worms yesterday. So it's still active in my garden unfortunately and I didn't cover this one up. I have this wire around here because you guessed it cats. I had a cat kind of dig up and you know take a seat if you will if you know what I mean in this container about a week ago. So these are mostly some of the summer things I was still growing. My peppers while you can see they're smaller than the ones that are in the regular garden bed. They're still thriving. I don't necessarily think I'll get any new peppers but I'm keeping these in the reserve right. I do have one more kale plant that I kind of plopped in that's doing pretty well in this small container. This is like a two gallon bucket I think. So pretty small but it's definitely I mean these leaves at this size are edible. Kind of look at them as baby leaves. I wanted to pull this in because I started this spinach back in August I think. Direct sowed and clearly it's bolted. Started to flower. So I'm still working on getting the spinach timing right. Kind of heading into the end of summer and the beginning of fall. But real quick note in one of the previous videos I thought this was more lemon drop peppers. But these are actually the shishitsu. Gosh I'm butchering that. But it's actually those peppers which are super cool because I only had these planted one other place. So I'll definitely have enough to get an actual you know nice sized meal out of these. And based on the container size, the bucket I may may try to overwinter these. We'll see. In the background I have still some of the confetti peppers. They're not producing any new peppers. But there are a couple that are still on on the vine there. Actually I take that back they are producing new peppers. Hmm. One more potential for overwintering. We'll see. I mean they couldn't stay outside based on the weather in Chicago in zone 6A. But they may be able to get inside of the garage with some lighting and survive. But we'll see. All right I have a couple more things to show you. So this is the arugula that I direct sewed. I did it on 9-11. Gosh I don't remember the name of the lettuce here. I'll put it on the screen. It's washed away there. But you can see the growth that all of this lettuce has achieved. Which is super cool. Before we move on to the last set of containers. I did want to share how my raised bed is doing when it comes to this chard and the kale. So this chard forward hook chard is one of my faves now. It's just kicking butt. These cooler temps just really set it off. This is the ruby red chard. And then this is dinosaur or lacinato. There's one more name I always forget that it goes by. So it's starting to do really well. My garden salads look like a couple of leaves from this plant. Some of the chard and then some of that romaine lettuce. But yeah this is really really really doing well. All right let's get to the last set of containers. All right so for the sweet potatoes just a quick update. We're at day 110 for those. And I've already pulled a test sweet potato out. And it really wasn't the ideal size. So I'm leaving these in the grow bags for a while longer. I'm keeping an eye on things because it's starting to get a little bit wetter. You know since we're in fall and all. And everything I've read is you don't want to have your sweet potatoes get too wet. Or they may split once you get closer to the point of harvesting. So these are 110 days old. The grower that sold me the slips for the Beauregard which I'm pretty sure is in this container said you know you can wait up to the 100 day mark and harvest them. Pull one out. See how you like the size. If you don't like the size wait another week pull another one out. But advise not to wait more than 30 days after kind of the harvest period. So 100 days you can start harvesting. Don't go past 130 days. I'm probably going to get right in the middle. And then the other ones I have it's from the potatoes that I started slips from that I bought from Home Depot. And I still haven't been able to figure out that brand. Like that's the variety of potatoes. So I don't know the timing. But generally sweet potatoes like a longer season. So I'm keeping that in mind. But I'm probably going to pull all of these out in the next couple of weeks. And we'll do a video on that. Thanks so much for spending some time with me. I'll be sure to update you all on how things progress over the fall season and the containers. See you all in the next one.