Malawian cotton growers learn farming techniques through China-African cooperations
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK0YpcQJndQ
News & Politics
 It's time for the cotton growers to collect seeds from Machado, the merchandiser of China Africa Cotton, Malawi Company. In fact, Machado is not only a merchandiser, he helps the farmers with his knowledge of sowing and harvesting. The busiest time of the year is several months later when the cotton is mature. Two? Two acres? Yes. Oh, this one. But the merchandisers have to do a lot of preparing work for the harvest season, including constant communications with the farmers. Because we have clubs, it's where I go there, each club, and teaching them how to apply chemicals, experience, and also how for them to have more youth. There are thousands of merchandisers like Machado in Salima region in the west of Malawi. They have become organizers of the systematic farming work of the local farmers. There are about 12,000 people within the area I am controlling. Most of them are cotton growers. Working with the company brings them a big change. Their work is becoming more efficient. While the farming work is becoming more efficient, farmers' benefit is obvious. More time and money is spared for other small businesses like animal husbandry. Simon Motka is the one who benefits a lot from his cooperation with the company. His new house looks much better than others in the village, and his money is enough to support a small pig farm at home. I have a family of six members. I don't have to pay for the seeds. The money will be deducted when they pay me for the cotton. And it's cash. The money is enough to support my children's study at school. Simeon also owns a grocery at the village center, where the villagers enjoy their leisure time before they start to work in the cotton fields. These people living in the world's most underdeveloped country look happy enough with their current lives. But the local management of the company seems to be more ambitious. Kennedy said that the dry season may also be used for planting if technology improvement is achieved. We have got, of course, Malawi government is coming in. Of course, it's a China government and Malawi government partnership with Benet-Chipoca. They are trying to teach farmers on some of those issues when it comes to irrigation. So for the farmers, if they can get access to equipment on irrigation, Malawi cotton will come in immediately to give technical know-how on that. The farming technique is still Aboriginal in Malawi. Cotton is one of the very few products which support the country's economy. Improving cotton planting technique is therefore a big issue. Yeah, well, of course, the government is trying its part. But now we cannot just leave everything to the government. We also have to coordinate with the companies like Malawi cotton company to help us bring that change. Yeah, sure. So we'll make sure that there's that good connection between farmers and and companies like Malawi cotton company, which are very serious with the cotton development in Malawi. In fact, the cotton processing has become a pillar industry in Malawi. Large part of the foreign currency is made from the export of cotton lint, seed oil, and other side products. Over 80 percent of our products are exported to other countries with an output of 20 million US dollars. We are planning to extend our production chain and build a spending mill here. That may bring another 50 million dollars and a thousand and five hundred jobs. The GDP per capita of this country is the lowest in 2004 in the United Nations poverty country list. Malawi is a small country, but it has a huge amount of cultivated land. And this is obviously a big potential for the country's cooperation with foreign investors and also a big attraction for the Chinese business sector. The GDP per capita of this country is the lowest in the United Nations poverty country. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.