Maximize Harvesting Lettuce With The Cut and Come Again Method
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EkvNU6dG0pA
Howto & Style
 How do we take a field of lettuce, just like this and turn it into a bowl of lettuce day after day for pretty much the entire year? We're going to use something called the cut and come again method. And there's two different ways to do it. We're going to talk about that in today's video. With cut and come again, what you're trying to do is preserve the growing tip of the plant. And for lettuce and many leafy greens that is in the center and we call it the crown. And so what you're seeing me do here with this bib lettuce, very standard, classic type of lettuce is come around the outside and you can do it clockwise, counterclockwise. But what you're trying to do here is take away those large mature leaves. And I'm doing it here with this Merlot lettuce too, which is more of a frilly variety. This one I'm going to take down pretty considerably just to show you a peek at what the inside really looks like. Because if you do damage the crown, then your plant is done for good. And so you really want to avoid that. You're seeing me take away these outside leaves. And look, there's just very small versions of those leaves in here. So if we dig in, we can see the future of this plant. Basically, these are four or five, maybe even six little leaves that are in development. And in four or five days, you'll see those really start to come out. And so you can do this with something like spinach too. Come around, make sure that you're not chopping off that crown, get around the outside, and you're going to get a lot more yield out of this because you're taking off those mature leaves, letting them grow up and then doing the same thing. So we can see here, crown is the exact same. Those baby lettuce leaves are coming out. Sorry, those spinach leaves. And now here is a different method. This is a more efficient method. So you can come in with a chef's knife or something similar. Make sure you know right about where the crown is. So you don't chop off too much of it. And then grab it like a head of hair almost, and then just come through and slice. And you're going to want a really sharp knife for this. And so you've got a nice bunch of lettuce. You've preserved the crown. We can see I didn't chop the crown off and there we go. It's really that simple guys. So the cut and come again method explained in about a minute or two. Well, there we have it. The cut and come again method, very simple, explained. You can get bowls of lettuce day after day using this method, as long as you're doing it the right way, but it does bring us to a couple of questions. And the first question is how many times can I actually cut one of these plants before it actually is just done for good, which is a great question. So usually it depends on, really does depend on the type of plant, the type of lettuce or leafy green that you're doing. But for the most part, anywhere from three to five cuts and that's about it. So, you know, it's not like the plants just going to continue producing forever like it might. If you look at my basil video, I have a video on how to prune basil. You can more or less keep it going forever. And relatively speaking, it still will die, but much lighter than a green. For something like, you know, this loose leaf lettuce right here, you're going to get three to five cuts before the quality of the leaf is going to start to degrade. It won't be this big and it also won't taste that good. And it's going to sort of be just a little bit uglier and just the plant is, is trying to bolt because it knows that, you know, its life is coming to an end, but you're not really giving it the energy and the ability to do so. So then you're in a bad spot. So that's it. Endless supply of lettuce. I'm going to go make a salad now, guys. I'll see you in the next video. Hit like, hit subscribe if you enjoyed it. Let me know what you'd like to see in future videos later on in the comments. All right. Good luck in the garden and keep growing. All right. All right.