Dairy Farm Management
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eLKScfjYhac
Education
 Dairy farm management is the management of animals for increasing the yield and quality of milk and its products. The milk yielding capacity depends upon quality of cattle breeds in the farm. Selection of good breeds that have high yielding potential and are resistant to diseases is very important. Therefore, for a good yield potential, the dairy farm management includes following main processes. First, it's taking good care of the cattle. They should be housed well and kept comfortably. The place should be maintained in a disease-free environment with adequate supply of water. Next important thing is selection of proper cattle feed. For this, proper scientific procedure should be followed for choosing the feed of cattle with special emphasis on its quality and quantity. Stringent cleanliness and hygiene of cattle and handlers should be maintained while milking, storage and transport of the milk. Nowadays, these processes have been mechanized, which reduces the chance of direct contact of the produce with the handlers. However, machineries have to be inspected regularly and proper records have to be maintained to check the performance and identify the defects. Regular check-up of the cattle by the veterinary doctor should be done to identify early symptoms of diseases and maintain overall health of the cattle. Out of the total milk obtained every day, only 39% is consumed directly, while the rest of the milk is generally converted into various milk products, such as curd, cheese, ice cream, cottage cheese or paneer, koya, butter, ghee, milk powder, etc. India ranks first in world milk production. Our per capita availability of milk is 289 grams per day, which is very low, as compared to Switzerland, which is 750 grams per day. Verghese Kurian, also known as the father of white revolution in India, was instrumental in bringing about the white revolution. Cattle population in India In India, the population of cows and buffaloes is about 186 million and 95 million respectively. The breeds of cows in India There are 26 indigenous breeds of cows in India, which are categorized into milk breed, draught breed and dual-purpose breeds. Milk breed These breeds are rare only for the yield of milk. The females have large udders, for example, sahival, dioni, gheer, red cindhi, etc. Draught breed These breeds are called beasts of burden and are raised mainly for plowing and for transportation. The males are strong and sturdy, while the females have small udders and produce very less milk, for example, halikar, nagori, malvi, kilairi, etc. Dual-purpose breeds These are used to serve both the purpose of yielding milk and plowing, for example, haryani, ongol, kangrej, tarpakar, etc. To increase the milk production and fulfil to the demands of dairy industry, apart from these indigenous breeds, some high-yielding exotic breeds of foreign origin have also been introduced in India. They are like Jersey, Halston-Frasian, Red Dane, Brown-Swiss, Arishaya, etc. However, all these exotic breeds have difficulty in adjusting to Indian environmental conditions. In order to meet the high demand of exotic animals and have minimal maintenance and good climate acclimatization, many exotic animals are crossbred with indigenous breeds. Some examples of these are Karan-Swiss, Sunandini, Jersey-Sindi, Brown-Swiss-Sahival and Arishaya-Sahival. The breeds of buffaloes in India In India, there are presently seven breeds of buffaloes which include Mura, Surthi, Mahasana, Nagpuri, Niliravi, Jafarbandi and Badavri Nutritive value of milk Energy value for cow milk is 67 kcal per 100 ml Whereas, energy value for buffalo milk is 117 kcal per 100 ml Protein From cow milk is 3.2% And buffalo milk is 4.5% Fat Cow milk is 4.1 to 5.3% And buffalo milk is 6.5% Vitamins present in milk include A, D, E, Thiamin, Riboflavin, Niacin, Pyridoxin, Pantothenic Acid, Biotin, Cobalamin, that is B12 and Ascorbic Acid Minerals include Calcium, Magnesium, Sodium, Potassium, Iron, Copper, Phosphorus, Chlorine and Sulfate Cattle diseases Cattle are susceptible to various diseases like bacterial, viral, protozoan diseases Some of these are listed in the table Bacterial diseases like anthrax, mastitis and hemorrhagic septicemia Viral diseases like foot and mouth disease and rinderpest or cattle plaque A protozoan disease like coccidosis is caused by isopra And babesiosis or tick fever is caused by babesia Pactyl likelihood is caused by garb andral problems Plus of careful while