Tha life of agriculture engineer students in budhni Bhopal
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eLU9oIYF6YE
Entertainment
 buds right This is Harlan R 1969 This time, themap will be Metalなし PRODUCTION Go back and see the hazard fixed Be sure the minimum effect is decks The minimum obviously can be rocks Go back to the dock Mess.ừgly... Ah.. ,..ando we talked about her I'd like to join you. I…? I'm glad you come here today. Ah.. I'm glad you made this may be here, But you're facial mornin' Tell me what you made the eyes more smallμο Hey I don't know, I'll take it and take it I'm sorry, I'm sorry Hey, you're like this I'm sorry, I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry, I'm sorry I don't know who I am Hey, now Hey Hey Hey Hey, don't forget Let's stop the song Why will you get the song? It will be a copy right It's good It will be a copy right It's muted Background music Hey Hey You want me to do something? Yes, of course So, hey guys Good morning Very very fresh Good morning My name is Aruna I'm a VTech Agriculture student Now I'm doing my internship in Bhutni Bhupal Bhutni We're doing a Tector We're doing a Tector How to do a Tector How to do internal parts How to do internal parts We're studying all the things Welcome to my blog Which we're doing So, welcome Okay So, first of all, I'll get to my friends Because I'll show you more As compared to machines Okay, they'll be looking at me Okay, I'll get to meet This is Sonty This is Sonty He's a Tector He's a Tector He's a Tector He's a Tector This is Mohamed Asan Khan You're the only one You're the only one You're the only one I'm getting to meet This is Tector Tector Hey! Tector Tector So, now Our time is now For the morning To eat breakfast So, you have to go here To eat breakfast To eat breakfast To eat breakfast To eat breakfast To eat breakfast To eat breakfast No, no, no, no I'm not taking a lot of money Okay Get out from my room, bro Yeah! Actually, these are different countries Just kidding Now it's time for the morning To eat breakfast We're going to take our plate This is our Peg, Half What's your name? Vag! Ma기 VIG Mus AKA vocês嫌ест Late Sir기를 Coming up next to Dr.า Clinics이야 but These people made up their work That's why we hebt people, okay It's obvious So this world is 102 My friends have been electoral My friends have injured My friends have guard fizer final class is going this is agriculture we have many cubes let me tell you if you have time we are not running we are late friends which class is it? D no, there is room hydraulic what view is right 10 11 you need to do the primary now our tea break is 30 minutes 10 minutes before we have been working and the professor has been deeply so we have been living 20 minutes left this is the canteen it is weird friends also I have been living I have been living I have been living in the middle of the I have been living I have been living wow wow wow wow so in my face this is an irrigation gun for the gun this is a this is a this is my classmates this is my senior this is my this is my some people some people some people some people really enjoy you have to come here so we are going to go to lunch because the time is so we are going to lunch for the day my bottle hey it looks like memory capture oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh then again i'm going my class class now see you in class now oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh so thank you so much video чем world