Vineyard Management Tips from Cristián Vallejo
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EM-l2rsYEKM
Howto & Style
 What are the challenges of adjusting the wine yard practices in such different conditions? As a winemaker managing all those vineyards with different conditions, what are the best practices and how do you resolve this? Well, there's a lot, but just to mention the keys, for example, yields. We already said that the yields are different. Then how you manage the green area when you do the green harvest. And when you manage your green area. So, for example, we are trying to harvest earlier than years ago to keep the freshness, to keep the acidity, the aromas in the peak, but with round, soft and ripe tannins. So it's a difficult combination because normally if you have high yields and you harvest early, the tannins will be green. So that's why the yields for us are very important because that helps us and how we munch the green area to ripe the tannins early. And then the sugar content is not that high. The acidity is almost on the peak starting to go down and the aromas are still on the top. It's that's the combination that we look for. So we manage those three things are the most important. Yields, when you do the green harvest and how you manage the green area. For example, we do, if this is my bunch, we take all the leaf around the bunch, but we let the old ones outside. They, like my hand now it's blocking the bunch. This will block the sun. So you won't have strict sun on your bunch, but you will have light and that light will give the sun to the tannins to ripe and to become round and soft. But this leaf is blocking the sun. So you won't burn the skin. So you will save the flavor and the color. So that's part of the techniques. Well, I can, we can work, we can talk hours of this, but this is a very simple way to show how we manage. So we take all those leaves around the bunch. So when you look inside of the arm, it's like a tunnel and then the bunches are hanging. And then green harvest, we do three, four, sometimes four green harvest. One is one bunch per cane. Okay. The second is, well, sometimes you have two canes in one bud. So you you take one out, then one bunch per cane. Then, so that's two. Then during the Verizon, when you have 50% of your Verizon, imagine that you have 10 bunches, five of them are red. The other five are still green and turning to red. Well, those ones will be late all the time. Even then after the Verizon, they will be, the 10 of them will be red. Those five, they will be one week later. So when these five are ready, you taste them and the tannins are ripe and ripe and beautiful, those, those five, they're still green. So when you take the decision, because this one, when they will be ready, this will be overripe. Okay. You see, so when it's 50%, you take out all those greens ones out and you keep the five that they're already in the same, um, uh, ripeness. Yeah. And in Cabernet Frank, for example, we do something, um, which is a little bit crazy, a lot of work, but we take the shoulders out and the tails out, um, and we keep just the center in order to keep also the, that part of the, um, the ripeness, uh, very, um, homogeneous. Uh, that's another key. So that's why I said that we make wine in the fields first and then in the winery. That's wonderful. And for Cabernet Frank, uh, when do you do this, uh, the cutting out of the shoulders and then we, we do it very early in December, um, um, before when the, the, the, the, the grapes are like a bee like this, because it's easier to, to, to, to work with the scissor, to cut with the scissor. So, um, and then the last one will be during Verizon when you have, I don't know, out of 10, seven are red and the other two, uh, three are green. So we take out the, December is a key because it's when you let one bunch of cane, shoulders and tail. And then at this time, end of, uh, well, now it's February, but the, at the end of January, uh, it's the last green harvest, uh, during the Verizon. Wow. And only, only the Cabernet Frank is the, is the most, uh, prone variety for this not being homogeneous. And that's why you only do it, the taking out the shoulders with this, this variety. Well, well, I, I put the, the Cab Franc in as an example, but also we do it in Syrah and Merlot because the bunches are very big. Um, naturally they're bigger than Cabernet Soignan is cylinder and it's small. Um, Carboner is a little bit very close to the Cabernet Soignan, but the Cab Franc is a little bigger, Syrah is bigger and, and Merlot also. So we do it on those three. um, that's interesting. And when you said that, uh, you leave one bunch per cane on the cane, does it matter? And if yes, uh, which section of the cane is better to leave that, that one bunch? Yes. Um, normally you have your arm and then you have your cane like this, right? Yeah. No, we let, we let 14 leave. Um, normally you have, have the average at least here in Chile is almost two bunch per cane you can have three weird naturally you can have one two or three okay the average almost two is like 1.8 from leather so normally the cane has in the second bud one one bunch and then in the in the third on the fourth another bunch yeah so in in that cane you cut the one that is on highest and you keep the one that is more close to the to the arm okay so you let it like hanging here and you do that very early when when you already see the it's at the beginning of December okay you have your chewed your cane like 14 leaf and then you do this yeah wow finally the point is the point is that imagine that you have 14 leaf working for two bunches during the whole season and 14 leaf working for one bunch which one will be more more concentrated naturally of course I mean it's all that work goes to just one that's the final point yeah yeah exactly that's that's that's amazing thanks for watching this video you can watch the full podcast episode by clicking here or watch another interesting video by clicking here let's continue the discussion in the comment section and see you in the next one