Biomethane company to do ‘long-term deals’ with farmers
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ENOK1Rw2bPA
News & Politics
 Nephyn Energy is one of the biggest suppliers of natural gas, Irish natural gas into Ireland. They produce about 40% of Ireland's natural gas requirements. And their aim was to decarbonise and also bring in renewable gas. So gas created from organic waste or agricultural waste and produce a substitute or a replacement for long-term decarbonisation. So what does that mean in practice? It means that we're going to replace fossil gas, methane, with biomethane. And the bio bit is biologically produced methane. So that will come through an anaerobic digestion process. So what we're looking to do is grow a sustainable business which can service multiple plants over all of Ireland. So we're not restricted to one county. So Neff and Agri will be our link between ourselves and the farming community and the feedstock community. So the food waste plant would be the waste that you and I produce. So that would be the food waste that we throw in the bin that we now recycle. So that'll be anything, any food waste. So from restaurants, oils, whatever. The alternative to that is what I'd call agri-centric waste. So it's a co-digestion process. So we take slurries, cow slurries, poultry manures, any other manures. We take waste products from the dairy industry. So that might be the waste product from whey, whey permeate cheese, brewery industry and distillery industry, looking at the drafts and the pot ales and the thins, products that wouldn't necessarily go in the food chain. And then we put them into the facility and we do the same thing. We produce a methane from that. But that's a co-digestion, agri-centric facility. And what that means is we need carbon. All of that produces nitrogen. So in effect, what happens is we give our AD plant, which is a biological process, just the same as when our stomachs work, when a cow's stomach works. And if you give it too much nitrogen, it gets stomach ache. So we need a carbon. Well, farmers can get involved in a variety of ways. We'll be looking to do long-term deals, long-term 10, 15, 20-year deals with aggregators and individual farmers to produce feedstock into our facility. So we'll be looking to start that process by matching the market and then continue that in index-linked scenarios in order to produce and supply into our facility. to do to create a product of produce. So we'll be looking to get you back on KlarieT who will be looking into our company, what's going on in order to add to our facility. Well, it doesn't matter what's going on in the MC. That's a unique kind of能mm最大 thing about the父om we wish to get is the V some mhm. That we would buy the water for three different types. Then there are no one into our land. We might have a bigger grumb and the grass changes that we modキ a little biturbish pepper‑ to the75 metros. If you could run into ссыл很 Innovative to review that we podemos bring back together to to our magnific Wasn entering. So we could have teknifer Derek Codes So we're trying to learn how to<|en|> that we'll try that the water affect technique of the sand.