Grow a tyranotitan with me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EP1_wL97ybo
Gaming
 Bonять meg je hacer sacd de Oh Oh Shit, bro Okay Okay, okay Okay, I can't do that Can't do that Can't do that Alright, come on grow up I'm gonna grow up Tarantyne real quick I need to grow one He said He said He said What up UT Yeah, you can join if you want If you want Shit, bro I'm just growing a Tarantyne right now Nothing too special Nothing too special Nothing too special Nothing too special I don't know where she think she's going I don't know I don't know I don't know Let's move this mic a little bit closer Oh shit You finna grow a Tarantyne or you finna grow a different dinosaur He said He said How many people in this server 96 players 2 hours and 55 minutes They serve They serve rooms Bussin They serve rooms I need two more branches I think it's some over here Nope Nope Nope Ain't no branches over there I got away today's I got away today's line back in I don't feel like running around searching Oh You got away today's line back in Nope, ain't no branches over there. I got away today's fine back in. I don't feel like running around searching. You had me to group. What's your name? Is it, you HB, right? Oh. They gave me insects again? I just had this quest. There's something big over here. And it sounds fast. Hold on, HB. Give me a second. That motherfucker sound big and fast. You on mobile? EM17, appreciate the follow. You're welcome. Oh my. Okay, okay. Where you at, HB? I don't know. Is I'm done over here? I'm not doing turtle shells and clams. We out of here. Let's go to South Flats. How far is, uh... Should I go to the... Matter of fact, should I go to this, um... What are you doing? Nah, I don't feel like it. If you give him the lead, you can find him. Oh, if I make him leader? Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. I'm gonna starve. Hold on. I might have to eat some saw rocks. Rose, appreciate the light. Oh, that's what I was hearing. That's probably... What's that, a mirror guy? Nah, that's... That's a arm... Arm... Armagraba. I don't know how to pronounce it. South Flats has a bunch of critters. Oh, nah, that's more. Hold on. We got our Marg... Armagraba. I'm just calling it Amy. That's Amy. And we got two Metris. One Metri. This nigga finna come attack me. Is he? Nah, I want you. Is they... Is they fighting at Armagraba? Nah, he not. Oh, it's a Allo. I'm just hoping everybody friendly right now. I'm not even trying to hide. Hold on. I got to turn off notifications. Hold on. Hold on. Hold on. Hold on. Hold on. You running too close. Man, he's circling. Yep, I knew it. I knew it. I knew it. I knew it. I knew it. I knew it. I knew it. Amar, please. get his ass get his ass get his ass get his ass yes sir yes sir my niggas they ain't with that fuck shit i still need some more food though oh this what i was ironing right here somebody killed this that small little geico lizard all right let's get it uh look you want to get out of here that aloe dangerous he dangerous let me get out of here why is he running straight oh okay let me go this way is that thing dead is this dead it is it's an alpha critter this motherfucking huge green bat oh why did my my tiktok live is ended all right okay i don't know why my shit just ended my stuff my backup okay i'm back up i don't know why my stuff just ended bro all right let me get out of here i don't even feel like changing and uh i just ended my shit for nothing you said you had green value ain't that far what is that is that another tarant no that's bars the whole time i should probably go to this home cave if i'm gonna go to the home cave um over here by green hills we gonna wait they end my shit again i'm gonna kill them i don't know why they ended my tiktok live all right there we go what's her i'm on official service i'm gonna grow my uh tyrannotitan i'll grow you i got you again i'm good again i'm good let's go what do i need i need to hurry up and switch my quest around mad sus how's that sus my fault god my live ended for some reason it just ended out of no i don't know if i'm lagging or not it's 11 in the morning 11 in the morning what is that oh he moved i thought he was okay that's a dash i'm just gonna say what up and leave what up and leave what a branch is that did i pass him i think i passed i definitely passed i definitely passed no i didn't okay dang this frog filling me up i need two two bites i got food for you so i appreciate the follow and the like this nigga called me mad sus and then left i can't play with all y'all now man first come first serve i'm gonna hb nah what you said what what oh that motherfucker just tried to sneak up on me surfing to restart this server lowkey lit oh no not anymore it was just 96 players in here now it's only 80. uh let me get out of here that dad probably took all the shellfish what you did is an adolescent they're not even letting me pick this up that's too big for me to pick up all right we don't stand a chance against him hb what green valley looking like is gv lit small shellfish you on official i'm on out time i already got somebody with me but yeah i'm on official we are we are two men right now i'm low-key waiting on somebody too if he drawing all right all right yeah i hope ain't no circles in her is this the shallow part yeah this is shallow part i'm good i'm good not Let's see what we got. Let's see what we got. Oh, succulents. I appreciate you sharing a live, Jennifer and whoever, Hart, whoever that is. Appreciate y'all sharing. Right now we're just growing a Tyranotite. I like the Tyranotite. I need a full adult one. Like right now. Like now. What game is this? The game is called Path of Titans. Is that dad still here? Path of Titans. That's the game. Alex. I know Axel. Appreciate the light. Sophia, appreciate the seven gifted. Alright, come on. We going to the home. I got to go to the home, K, real quick. Okay. You ain't going to eat. Is that a Tyranotite? Yeah, this is two Tyranotites. I'm just not growing one. I grew one on permadeath servers, but they took that out. This officials? Yeah, this officials. Bro, tell me why I got banned on the Crimson servers. Axel, appreciate the follow. One of y'all, somebody snitched on me. And got me banned. Because I wasn't in their, um... I wasn't in their, um, Discord. They, they figured out I wasn't in their Discord somehow. Somebody, one of y'all snitched on me. I know, I know who did it. No, I don't know who did it, but... One, I know one of y'all snitched on me. Because ain't no way they figured out I'm not in their Discord. Yes, they banned for the... I'm banned. Like, I can't get in there. I can't get in there. I can't get in there. I can't get in there. I can't get in there. I can't get in there. Uh, what up, Natalie? I hope you have a good day as well, my boy. I can help you grow to a full grown time. Uh, I don't need no help. I already got somebody with me. That shit is crazy. They banned me for not being in a Discord. Type of shit. You just a baby. Yeah, I'm just, um, juvenile right now. I think HB an adolescent. I don't know. He might just be a slightly bigger juvenile. He looked huge, though. He probably an adolescent. Him. He didn't... I don't know. So... ... ... ... ... ... Nah, how the fuck did they figure out I wasn't in a discord though? Like they really got people Like who moderates that shit do they get paid for that? They bite something Try other sir, there's a lot of good sirs What I was gonna do HB you just left Buy something I gotta run, I'm a juvenile The moment I ain't buying too many things I'm just running I'm still a baby Try other servers name me name me some good service and I think about it Community servers are great. They would be great if I ain't keep getting banned Cuz you know sometimes getting jumped by 40 dinosaurs is not it I only got banned once I'm exaggerating But I got banned for not being in the discord for the crimson service You stream on twitch or kick or just youtube and tiktok? Uh, I stream just on youtube and tiktok. I was finished stream on twitch, but my web I need to get a new webcam My webcam acting up. I don't even know if it's acting up right now, but My webcam be acting up that's why I haven't been going live my stuff been glitching Apex killers is a good server. I've never heard of apex killers Can you waste on me? Can you waste on me? You switch dinosaurs? What are milk cat mushrooms? That's usually top 10 I look you want to join a different server. How many people in this 63 players? I might join a different server Yeah, I think I'll put a joint different server hold on We in a different server This server from the restarting about 30 minutes anyway Christian appreciate the like You just have to join The admins are fair to just have to join the discord I'm trying to discord Man There's one called idol of intia this server is moderated by other creators Well other creator I'm still on time You need a wait nigga. He was just right behind me. Why you need a waste on? I need a waste on them But that's all on you my dude See, if I wasn't live streaming And I ain't tell y'all I wasn't in the discord I will still be able to get in crimson servers So who gonna fess up? Which one of y'all snitched on me? Which one of y'all snitched on me? Sarko got you? Nigga, a sarko Hell no! A sarko just killed HB I ain't even see it Damn Jurassic meets I don't know if you gotta be on the discord You probably do You probably gotta join the holiday discord He's from Puerto Rico Banana appreciate the share I appreciate the share Alright, let's look at this server 89 players 2 a day How long service? They last about 4 hours? Why the server? They last about 4 hours I guess I can stay in huh? What um Milcaacaksın Never mind HB you in here? I'm trying to go to The Waystone in a minute HB you in here? I'm gonna go to the waystone in a minute. Where they spying you at? Let's go that woman in the background. Shut up. Ma! What? What? Somebody said shut up. Who are you? I'm standing there. You said what? That man might be female in him. Nah, it's Quinn. This ass should be at work. Okay, it is. What else can do? He's on the gang plan. We ain't there for some damn gang. It's over, bro. I'm in. Where the Rock said. Oh, that man is just how we go, buddy. Just how we go. He said he worked Tuesday to Friday. Look at him. Big head and ass ain't got nothing to do with play with you on the gang, huh? We ain't playing together. But where he doing? Watching. Yeah. Yeah. Have you played any other MO RPG before like Black Nights? Nah, nah, I haven't. You better not get your hands. He said you at Hunter's Ticket? I don't play the gang. Just go on. We ain't Hunter's Ticket in. Fuck it. Nah, let me start. I'm for the... I got the Waston quest anyway. I'm gonna go over there in a second. Damn, I'm gonna starve. Hold on. I might need to eat some Sairog. Oh, somebody sent me a message. Ride in that motherfucker. Fuck. Ro. Buck. Do you have a carnivore diet? Could you eat the bones? Nope. I got the regular eat meat only diet. Whatever. Hyper carnivore? Whatever they call it. I'm late. I'm sorry for not coming to streams for a while. Nigga, I haven't been... This is my first time streaming in about a week or two. I haven't been streaming for a minute. My webcam been acting up. But right now, it's good right now. I don't know. It's random. Titan only has Hyper carnivore. Oh, okay. So the Tyranotite only got Hyper carnivore. I might have to eat some Saurog. Soldier face, what up? Let's go ahead. Eat some critters. Before I eat the Saurog. What's your favorite thing to play? Sarco, Das. I fuck with the hats. When I'm in a group with the Raptors, I like the Raptors. I like the Raptors a lot. But I gotta be in a group. Oh, this thing fighting back? Bro, my hits was not just registering. I'm finna die. I just bit this thing like 30 times. Come on, please. Please, please, please, please. Don't die. Don't die. Don't die. Don't die. Don't die. Don't die. Don't die. Boy. Boy. Why don't my hits register with these AIs, bro? I hate these AIs. What's up, man? I'm doing good. How you doing? Bro, the AIs. I hate AIs. Hats is getting nerfed here. Hats getting nerfed? How they gonna nerf the hats? What they nerfing on the hats? Look. As soon as I'm low as hell on health, here come a fucking dinosaur. I hear somebody. Nigga got me over here glowing green and purple. Stanima and combat weight. Man, the Stanima are already not that good with the hats. They gonna lower some more? My MMORPG is finally getting a PS5 Xbox. Wait. What's it called? You talking about the Black Desert? Metri is probably my favorite pack dino. I never played with Metri as a pack. Was that a, uh, was that an, um, alpha critter that I just fought? Boki filled me up a decent amount. I'm at half hunger from that one. What the fuck I was looking at? This week I'm working on my Spino. Black Desert? I'm gonna have to do my research on it. I wanna try Eldering. I ain't gonna lie. I wanna try Eldering. But Black Desert? I'm gonna have to do my research. Allo need TLC big time. Allio. Even if I'm tons of bigger than this. That, this AI. My English ties. Yeah, the AI. I don't like the AI. They might as well remove them to me. I do not like the AI in this game. They just stupid, bro. They ain't just stupid in this game. What is this effect that's on me right now? Hold on. Instant death if hell falls below this threshold. Intoxicate it. I got that shit for six minutes and it's not going down. They should nerf the AI. I just want them to make it smarter, bro. That's all they gotta do is make the AI smarter. Right now, the AI is just one track. Like, it just got one simple coding. It's harder than... I know it's hard, but... Because I ain't no game developer, but... I hate the AI. I hate the AI. HB, you still in here? I did not forget about you. I'm over here trying to do these quests real quick. Where's... I need some bun mushrooms. No, all they gotta do is make it penalty for killing babies. What? Nah, I don't think they should do that. How are they making it a penalty for killing babies? That's part of the fun of the game. If you're a baby and you know nothing gonna kill you, then what the fuck? You just walking around. Yadon, appreciate the follow. Alright, I'm outta here. I'm not doing this all right. I'm finna go to this waystone. I'm finna go to this waystone right now on... HB. It's at Crater Watergong. Oh yeah, Crater is not popular no more. Every time I went to Crater, there was nobody over there. Crater is not it. I'm low-key glad though. I ain't like how 30 players would be at Crater for the whole four hours of the server. I'm gonna go to the other. Need to move around. Use the map. Sky was good. I'm growing my Tyranititan right now. Finna grow me a... Tyranititan. A Titan. I'm gonna just call it a Titan. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Wait. What the hell? I don't got the Waston quest no more? I never did the Waston quest. Nah. They took the quest away from me? I never did the shit. Nah. They bogus. They bogus. They bogus. They bogus. I might join for a minute. Alright. Damn. I think Toy may get some more YouTube content if you try Black Dare is hella deaf in the game. You may be hooked, lined, and synced if you check it out. It has been out for like six, seven years on console, ten years. PC. So, it's already out. Black Desert. Lil Reese. Lil Reese. Appreciate the follow, Lil Reese. Bro, they just... Okay. Forget it. They just cheated me on my quest. They just cheated me on my quest. I'm hungry. I'm thirsty. I lost my damn quest. I lost my damn quest. I lost my damn quest. Crazy. crazy I even died they just took my shit because I switched servers should have did that shit first I ain't doing that okay I learned my lesson I ain't doing that again maybe you turn in blue what skin is this I'm starting a little bit of catching up to you yeah you adolescent for sure they want to get flowers and bun mushrooms at Titans Pass I don't know if I like times fast I don't really yeah I don't think I like times fast that's uh where should we go where should we go yeah I don't know where I should go get his ass out of here mm-hmm come out come out what's up mom what up Kevin ain't no way what's good p2 come on look at that my bison is not like what what the fuck is this game and he finna dig back in I hate this game I'm done I rather just die I rather just die I just bit that nigga eight times that shit did not register at all I HB you just seen that bullshit are we still disturbed get his ass back out here right there has been out here but the game has been getting the next gen version ready for a while and now they have announced the old gems will be unable to proceed without upgrade dang I just bit HB he finna do the same shit that shit good shit good shit we need some real food man you think we can kill something what's your ID bro p2 appreciate the gift uh I got so many people joining me right now maybe next time Kevin uh I got so many people joining me right now maybe next time Kevin okay I got so many people joining me right now maybe next time Kevin I got so many people joining me right now I got so many people joining me right here maybe I got so many people joining me right here maybe we can do a raptor pack again but I don't know if I want to do that right now okay okay okay I ain't trying to be no huge group right now. Let's turn off the hood. So Black Desert. I'm gonna look it up. I'm gonna look it up. HB we gotta kill something bro. Either that or I gotta eat some salt rocks. We see any child, we own it. Let's see. What we need? We need some more Tiger Nuts. I just heard AI. I don't play Anno. Oh! Hell no I'm not fighting that. I don't play the Anno but... I don't play the Anno but... They already just like... Don't nothing fight the Annos for real. That's why I feel like... That's why I never want to grow one. You can't catch none. And don't nothing want to fight you. Because y'all ass be OP. Just tanks. Gonna be fighting you for like 40 minutes. So yeah I don't fuck with the Anno at all. I don't play the Anno at all. I don't play the Anno at all. I don't play the Anno at all. Does HP fight that thing? I don't play the Anno at all. This Alpha Critter. This nigga huge. He done as big as me. Oh yeah. He probably gonna fill me up a lot. I want it to be Spino and Sark. I definitely want a Sarko TLC. Definitely want a Sarko TLC. AP2. You know I got banned from the Crimson servers? They banned me, gang. You just stand there in the cities and look at the Dark Knight or his sources. Yeah they banned me for not being in their Discord. Somebody snitched on me. I don't know what that is, Bo. Sarko is getting a TLC. It's taking too long bro. They coming out like Anno? Is you serious? Ain't nobody asked for no Anno TLC. We ain't fucking with the Anno. Let's go to Death of the Past. I don't even feel like looking for Tiger Nuts no more. I don't know. I don't know what that is. I don't know. Hold on. Now let's get it. That's the pass. Two more bars and I'm adolescent. How do we get down from here? Oh my God. This officials. Yeah, this officials. Oh, I forgot I get, um, just for discovering the area, I get a full minute. I forgot about that. See, I think the water should be more murky for the Sarcos. Like, I shouldn't be able to see clearly from 30 feet away. Like, you know how the eye will do it. The Sarcos can see under the water, but if you swimming across from any other dinosaur, you can't see shit until it's too late. That's how it should be. In between, appreciate the light. Okay. Okay. And, uh, okay. Come on. Touch it. Hold on. Hold on. Hold on. Hold on. Hold on. Hold on. Hold on. Hold on. Hold on. Hold on. Hold on. Hold on. Hold on. Hold on. trying to hurry up before our quest become sharp to quest we probably ain't gonna make it though nope we didn't make it okay I got all this money in my pants you can't miss that you should see the ladies diamonds my hair something p2 appreciate the light have you ever played jute 2 jute 2 the fuck is that oh we playing as titan what's up monkey yeah we playing as titan I'm growing my titan should have been dead this I gotta wait till the quest reset reset Cole appreciate the light Jurassic world evolution 2 nah I ain't never played them games that's when you build your own little Jurassic world right monkey appreciate the light server this is official servers Isaiah appreciate the light but yeah this is official servers okay okay okay okay all right 20 bones what they give us as a group quest flowers antipodont c1 lamb ju visitors toothpicks it's the ground we in the grind right now right now where we at in this past okay we over here I think it should be some bones out there I think I think it's some bones up there I look you want to do the group quest first though if you want a good server with good rules and faster girls than official you should try and that is yep they gave me bones hey man last time I tried to do a community server y'all snitched on me I think it's some bones up here no no no no it's not no it's not they ain't they did it yeah they said I wasn't in a discord they banned me from the crimson servers I probably can get back in their servers but I gotta join a discord first I don't you find some oh yeah Where? Ah, this nigga just got kicked out. HB what happened? Oh you still here? I'm over here. Okay you good. You probably crashed. Carnal was harder to be honest. But uh, Dang now we don't got the group quest no more. They not even giving us none now. Why did she just bring this baby in here? Sanka what am I at? Why the baby in here? Sanka what am I at? Why the baby in here? Sanka what am I at? Why the baby in here? Sanka what am I at? Why the baby in here? Say what? It's hot as shit right now. Y'all I am sweating right now. I don't know if it's the game making it hot up here. Promote him to leader of y'all group. It may put the group quest back. He is the leader. Yeah he is the leader. No, baby. Thank you. We LAB sept multiplications. By the time we're hitting and making meetings. Get here. We are off parfois. Everybody is so You know we've made a little of all things. Oh boy a person can make it hb. Scratch at Joe is so Oh Hang on we haven't been running into anything we just chilling right now How many people in this server 95 players yeah, I don't know how the fuck we ain't running to nothing If I was on my circle best believe I'm running to everybody in his lobby What server is this a official service I still ain't complete that challenge yet. I Ain't I need to record for that. I've been editing like um, I need some more footage though. I've been editing For the video But I need to get back to it get back to Dying 30 more times for six more hours I have an adolescent hats Good for you. I got a full grown hats. I bet I got every dinosaur I want I don't know This tyrannotide I don't know what I'm gonna grow after this I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I