Our Global Commons: Sustainable Land Management
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EpKMkfAAEZ0
Nonprofits & Activism
 Land degradation worldwide is a problem. Of course it becomes more dramatic in drier areas. And it is being amplified by climate change. By 2050, the world will need a 70% increase in food production to meet a growing population. Yet currently, one third of the Earth's agricultural land is degraded. So if your soil degrades, there won't be any plants growing anymore. Animals will disappear. And that is directly related to food security and conservation of nature, biodiversity. So in tackling that, you can actually address a lot of drivers of environmental degradation. To ease land degradation, and to meet the increasing demand for food, we have to radically transform global farming systems. Land degradation in Ethiopia is a common and serious problem. 85% of this country's population depends on agriculture. Agriculture is a backbone of our economy. So land degradation for us means the degradation of our economy. We are looking to recover those areas. But the challenge is very high. The global environment facility started a sustainable land management project in Ethiopia in 2008. We are now implementing it in six regional states. And with very minimum finance, we could be able to see a really big achievement. The area of Tegrae Mountains were highly degraded. So the community had no option instead of recovering those degraded areas. The project helped us to facilitate what was initiated by the government and supported by the community. But I started working in Sicily, a lot of workers, and my parents generated a lot of肉, and those are is values. They did not risk thegrade of our league, or member of power, but he does not want to doubt and do the rest of the Hawk. But those are very quicklyJeans linked to us on that as well. We were looking at the police, and the police said, we're going to have to stop our police. We asked him to help us with this project. We were able to help us with the project. We were able to help us with the project. We were able to help us with a project. We were able to help us with the project. We were able to help us with the project. The communities, they were highly affected by flooders, which came from those degraded areas. Due to the erosion, they lost all of their products. But at this time, the erosion is decreased. The fertility of the land increased. So their productivity also increased from year to year. There is the problem now due to the shortage of farmland. But with our project, the rehabilitated hillsides are now used by the rural poor. Particularly the landless use. I think that GF is definitely on the right path, and we will continue to work with them. We will continue to change our lives. I think that GF is definitely on the right path, because the work is good, and I've been talking with the people, and they really have much better lives. And at the same time, the global environment is being restored. There's a big change now. What we have to really think is how we can benefit the local communities. I want to see the green mountains, you know, and I hope that this will be scaled up throughout the country.