Start a Garden | Step-by-Step | Gardening Tips
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EPmV8iqZIps
People & Blogs
 What's up family staters? I hope everyone having a great morning, great evening, great afternoon. Today I'm going to show you two different ways to start a garden. I'm going to show you how to start a garden in the ground and in containers. The first thing you need to start a garden is healthy soil. Soil is the most important thing when it comes to starting a garden. The worst mistake you can make is starting a garden with unhealthy soil. So make sure you get everything you need to make your soil healthy. If you have red clay like us, make sure you add things like compost, peat moss, coconut coir. This is a great alternative for peat moss. So these are the same things. You don't have to add both. But if you can't find peat moss, you can add cocoa. If you can't find cocoa, you can add peat moss. And also topsoil is a great thing to add to loosen up your clay soil. So these are things you want to make sure you don't forget to add. Because if you just plant directly in this clay soil, you won't have a successful garden. Trust me, I've tried it before. So right now you're probably wondering, why do I need to add these things to my soil? Well, adding compost to your soil is super important because compost has a ton of nutrients and it helps feed your soil. Because it provides all those nutrients that your soil needs and your soil provides those nutrients to your plants so they can thrive. So that's why it's super important to add compost. Peat moss and cocoa are super important for red clay because what they do is help loosen up your soil. Because imagine, you see that? Imagine this. Imagine your roots trying to grow through this. This is a clay rock. Can you imagine roots trying to penetrate this red clay? That's crazy, right? So today, I'm going to use a tiller to mix our amendments to help loosen up this red clay. You can also use a broad fork, but this is going to take a lot more time and a lot more sweat. Trust me. I mean, you've seen how compact this red clay is. That's exactly why we chose to use a tiller this time. See how hard that is? Look at that. So this is a brand new tiller, so the first thing we have to do is add oil. music playing Check it out fam, we finally finished tilling our four garden rolls. Look at what compost, peat moss and topsoil does to red clay. You see how loose our red clay is now? This is what you want to see. You don't want to start a garden in this. The only thing that I might do to our garden rolls now is add more compost because you can never add too much compost. Because remember, when you feed your soil, your soil will feed you. Quick tip, when you make your garden rolls, make sure you have enough space in between your garden rolls so you can walk through. I like to make enough space where I can have both of my feet walking through like this. I don't want to walk through my garden roll like this. And I almost forgot to mention, before you start tilling your garden, make sure you choose a sunny location that gets at least eight hours of sunlight. Because you can't grow a garden without the sun. So don't forget that. And it's that simple. All we have to do now is plant some seeds. But I'm not going to plant any seeds today because I checked the weather and it says 40 degree nights next week. So I'm going to wait until after next week. That's another mistake that beginner gardeners make is planting things at the wrong time. Right now, it's not a good time to plant watermelon seeds because that cold weather will kill your watermelon plants. So I'm going to be patient and wait until next week. But what I will do is show you guys how to start your container garden and I'm going to plant some pepper plants in five gallon buckets. And the reason I can do that is because I can move the containers if it gets too cold. And I'm not going to plant that many plants today. I just want to show you guys how to start your garden in containers. What type of soil you can use. How to add fertilizer. And yeah, just show you how simple it is. But check it out. I'll show you guys one more time. And I definitely plan on adding more rows in the future. I just added four today. And I'm thinking, let's see. I'm thinking I'll plant watermelon seeds right here. Some sweet potatoes in this row. Some sugar melons in this row. And right here, I'll probably plant more sweet potatoes. So, now I'm going to show you how easy it is to start a garden in containers. All you need is pot and soil, some organic all-purpose fertilizer, something to make drainage holes in your containers, and some containers. First thing you need to do before you add your soil is add drainage holes. We've already added these four, so this should be perfect. You don't want to skip this step because if you do, your plants will drown and die. So don't forget to add drainage holes. After you add your drainage holes to your containers, now it's time to add your pot and soil. This soil is great for beginners because it feeds your plants for five to six months. So you don't have to add any fertilizer to your plants for like five or six months. That's why I chose this soil to use because I think it's great for beginners. You don't have to use this soil. You can make your own pot and soil with peat moss and compost or you can use cocoa and compost. But you have to add some organic all-purpose fertilizer to that because you want to make sure your plants have all the nutrients they need to flourish. So remember, pot and soil is basically just peat moss or cocoa mixed with compost. So now I'm going to show you how many buckets you can fill up with this bag of pot and soil. Let's see. So that bag of pot and soil was able to fill up three five-gallon buckets. And I wanted to show you guys this because if you're a beginner or you're staying in an apartment, you know exactly how many bags of soil you need to fill up this many five-gallon buckets. So if you want to do six, you need two. If you want to have nine five-gallon buckets, you need three bags. I will usually take some of the soil from my backyard and mix it with this so I can stretch it out. So instead of three, maybe I can fill up six. But I wanted to show you guys this way because some people stay in apartments and I want to show you guys an easy way to start your garden. Quick tip. Quick tip. If you're growing in containers, make sure you don't get this soil for your containers. Because you won't have a successful garden because this soil is too heavy. You see what that says? For in-ground use. And in this container, we're going to plant an orange bell pepper. Okay. Put it in. I'm going to stand. I'm going to stand. Spray, spray, spray. Okay. Here we go. Some strawberries. This is three different plants. One right here. One right there. And one right there. So. And we're going to plant these on the edge of the container so the strawberries can hang off the five-gallon bucket. Thank you. I got you. Alright. It's even more on that one. Okay. So a quick tip. When you're planting bell peppers, you want to use something like bamboo sticks or tomato cages to hold them up. Because what will happen is your bell peppers will get so big, it'll make your pepper plant fall over. This is how we make sure our pepper plants don't fall over. We just take a bamboo stick like this. Stick it straight down like that. And it's that easy to start a garden and container. Check it out. You can do it. All you need is some pot and soil, some five-gallon buckets, or 20-gallon storage containers. Whatever kind of container you want to grow in. And some pot and soil. And when you use this pot and soil, it feeds your plants for at least three to four months without you having to do anything. But after three months, I would suggest to add some organic all-purpose fertilizer. Because your plants will love you for that. Trust me. This right here is a habanero pepper plant. We start all of our plants from seed because it's a lot cheaper this way. If you buy five or six plant starts, you can end up spending $50, $60. So, this has been in the seed tray for a little while. So, we're going to loosen up these roots a little bit. Like that. Don't plant it too deep. One question that a lot of people ask us is, where do you get your seeds? We can't find any seeds. You can find seeds a lot of different places. We get seeds from Home Depot, Lowe's, Dollar General, Dollar Tree, Amazon, any online stores. You can find seeds anywhere. So, you shouldn't have a problem finding seeds when it's time to start your garden. So, check out how many yellow watermelon seeds we got from just two yellow watermelons. Look at that. This is probably over a thousand seeds. There are a ton of different ways to start a garden. You don't have to start your garden like this. You can start your garden in a raised bed or even a cardboard box. We've done that before. The only bad part about a cardboard box, you will only get one growing season out of it. But it's free. And if this video is not enough details for you, you can go to our website, theprolificfamilystead.com and get our ebook. And guess what? It's only $6.99. All right. To be careful about you is going to start some for years of preparing forину. Let's get it to some twenty-year jego dollars in life. We'll be right back. And if you can start to see every of your branding on a website then. So, of course, everybody will. First, we'll be watching the other website, I'm ready to start the other quick company. All right. Again, let's get you guys though, people, everybody have a great experience to learn. It's about the concept. Thank you guys across all this website and I will try to start an eyeshadow with a look. Let's see. Here we go off everything a little bar now. Let's get up and see. Let's see inside. I'll start the same way here. Diceaz. Let's do this in. We want to see.