AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EQ1M0_J_AwE
Education
 Today's lesson will cover agricultural extension. Agricultural extension is the process, system or service which assists farmers or farm people through educational procedures in improving farming methods and techniques. Objectives of agricultural extension To link farmers with research institutes To help accelerate the development of rural area Principles of agricultural extension Gain confidence of your audience Programs must undergo continuous evaluation Roles or functions of agricultural extension It encourages farmers to increase their production of food crops, cash crops and livestock. It acts as an intermediary between farmers and research institutes. Problems facing agricultural extension Farm or agricultural inputs are inadequate and often get to the users, farmers, very late. The subject matters specialist, agricultural extension officers, are of 10 not properly involved. Inadequate transport facilities for extension staff Extension methods Methods used in dissemination of new ideas and techniques to farmers are grouped into three classes. The mass media method creates awareness and interest in new ideas and techniques using publications, leaflets, posters, agricultural shows, cinema vans, newspapers, radio, television, newsletters, circulars, news bulletins, pamphlets, and film shows. Individual method This involves the direct contact between individual farmers and the extension worker. Examples of individual method include visits by the extension worker to the home and farm office of the farmer, telephone call, personal letters and text messages. The group method enables extension workers to teach farmers in groups through activities like group discussions, lectures, workshops, method demonstrations, farm work, field trips, symposia, debates, and general meetings. Agricultural Extension Programs in West Africa Agricultural Extension Programs are the media or channels such as ministries of agriculture, schools of agriculture, universities of agriculture, etc. through which new ideas and techniques are disseminated to rural farmers. Agricultural Extension Office Worker or Agent This is a person who is involved in the dissemination of new ideas and techniques from the research institutes to the farmers. Qualities of an Extension Officer or Worker The Extension Officer must be knowledgeable in his field of operation to enable him to teach farmers. He must understand the local language of the community he operates in because most farmers are illiterate. He must have interest in what he is doing. Functions or roles of an Extension Officer, Worker or Agent He consults and reflects on rural or agricultural development projects. He plans and executes farming educational programs. He organizes and supervises farmers group that is meeting, cooperatives and their workers' meetings. Problems of an Agricultural Extension Officer, Worker or Agent A high level of illiteracy among farmers may affect the rate of adoption of new farming techniques. The absence of credit facilities for farmers makes them uninterested and prevents the implementation of accepted innovation. Insufficient motivation for Extension workers by way of better remuneration for their efforts. Diffusion spreads new ideas and information from research stations to farm families. It moves from areas of higher concentration to lower concentration through a medium, Extension Officer, and methods. These new ideas and techniques are known as innovations. Five steps or stages of diffusion process include Awareness Interest Evaluation Trial Adoption, rejection, and discontinuation Adoption of new innovation involves the acceptance and practice of new or modern farming technique introduces in the rural area. This is largely dependent on Level of Education Attitude of Farmers Size of Farm Size of Farm Thanks for watching See you in the next video