Agrarian Life
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erBn9qrHE9w
People & Blogs
 Agrarian Life by Jazz, Lauren, and Sloan. The day in the life of an agrarian worker. Hi, my name is William. I'm married to a lovely lady named Mary, the mother of my two children, James Six and Ann Ted. Today is April 15, 1817, and I start my day at 6am to begin my wonderful agrarian life. This life is any community whose economy is based on producing and maintaining crops as well as farmland. The agrarian life allows for our families to live on farms producing products for ourselves and the economy. With less labor than factory workers and new machines being used, allowing for more time on our hands. I begin the day by dressing myself with the most sustainable products made from our cotton gin. The machine that we use daily helps assist mass production of cotton. The cotton gin could generate up to 50 pounds of clean cotton daily and made cotton production profitable for us increasing our wages. Then I go downstairs to eat the suppleurs of foods and products that my neighbors and I have produced. Every day we become less fearful if there will be food on our plates for each meal. I have to do many different tasks. But my mind continues to wander and think about the families who aren't as fortunate to live an agrarian life like us. With the urban lifestyle becoming more popular and growing rapidly, many people have begun to move away. Recently, the families of my childhood friends moved to the city to pursue an urban life for the reason of opportunities. However, most of them ended up working in a factory for countless hours on days ending in unhealthy conditions. the families of the family was a very difficult time to live in the farm. As well as their beloved children working in the coal mines. To keep my family safe, this is why we chose to continue to live life on the farm. During this time farms became the healthier and safer options. Farms allowed agrarians with fresh air not having to deal with smoke or salt. The spread of many diseases was extremely low as agrarians had more land to distance themselves from others to limit the spread of smallpox, typhus, and tuberculosis. Whereas my childhood friends lived in crowded places with no privacy as well as dangerous accidents occurring frequently. After I got my food, I went down to the farm. I used my new plow to break up the soil and help control weeds. Then I used my threshing machine to take the dead seeds out of the soil. To evenly distribute the fresh seeds, I used my seed drill in even straight rows. Due to the increasing amount of technological advancements, we gained more freedom. The development and advancement of tools and machines decreased the demand for rural labor. We used different types of ways to grow crops on the farm, including crop rotation. Crop rotation grew more food using the same amount of land, providing us with a surplus that has a variety of unlimited foods, increasing the farmer's salaries. By the end of the day, I'm no longer in pain from the consistent and aggressive workout on the farm. I'm now able to just manage my machines, causing my day on the farm to be shortened. Since I'm no longer on the farm from dusk to dawn, I'm able to spend more time with my family and bond with them. Each night, we have fresh home-cooked meals made by my wonderful wife, who is sometimes assisted by my lovely children. We then sit down and talk about our day. We have fun playing games and just socializing with each other. About once a week, we will have neighbors over whose children's age are just the same as mine. I enjoy this time very much, as years ago, I didn't have this time and would still be out in the fields working. To finish off my day, I get ready for bed and to do it all over again the next few days. Thank you so much for watching our presentation. I would highly suggest putting a vote down for our group. And for a little reminder, the agrarian life is what started it all.