McConaghy Contracts BiG X 980
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eTmi8S2j5ug
Autos & Vehicles
 I'm Andrew McConaughey and we're McConaughey Contracts. The chrome machines have come a long, long way from the very start. Nobody can deny that. For every young fella it's their dream really, from a farming background, just machinery, machinery, machinery. I made the choice to change self-propelled harvester brand this year. I went from class to Krone, the local dealer is an RMO now. And I'll be very friendly with Johnny and Uncle Lawrence. I'm in a good relationship with him. We've bought previous rake and mowers off him before. So we've toyed with ideas maybe four or five years. But just there never was a dealer close enough. And back up is a big thing and self-repell it. So if we were getting a good enough deal and sort of thought if we didn't try it now we would never try it. I've had various demos over the years out of the Krone machines. And the six feed rollers, and it's a brilliant job for the lumps. The grass is all smaller now, it's only denser. And everybody knows the denser lumps, it's hard to get through the machine. The six feed rollers seem to work well with that. Well it's just the backing plate, you know for lumps, it opens out, adjusts, just to let the stuff through basically better. And it's just far wider. From the feed rollers right up to the spout. It would lead to more intake really. This is the new Krone 980. Just about second day, I don't know if you could call this second day. We had a full day yesterday and I've currently done 17 acres. So we're sort of still first day vibes at the minute. There's been plenty of sort of demos of them, so it's not just completely new. But as long as I'm willing to drive it, Andrew is willing to buy it. So that's the main thing. Your buttons, as far as your shooting head and all, that's all still the exact same as what I was used to. So it's hydrostatic, you're knocking her forward to give you more and pulling her back to give you less. Instead of sliding. To be fair, I was used to that too. I wrecked a couple of years with fence and stuff and that sort of half had you trained in that. Well in terms of comfort on the road, I think it's a lot smoother. Less bouncing around and it's easier steered. It's easier held. Another thing I noticed there, we left it at 260 acres yesterday and I went out into where the radiator is, where your screen is for your fan. And I thought, right, probably be grassed right out here. Spotless. Spotless clean. The screen turns instead of the arm turning. There's a big divide in there, a plastic thing that blocks it up. Literally spotless. Other than that too, I like the way your crop press and your auger are separate. So when the auger bounces, it's not lifting your crop press up. There's no rattling and banging in the lumps. And to be fair, that's brave and lumpy today now. And then we get that head done with an auto greaser. It's connected to the harvester's auto greaser. So that should help the life of it too. It's all plumbed right up through. Definitely there's, they're, they connect it. Eighteen grease nipples up on that head to the auto greaser. We should have to be trying to do every, realistically one or two days. Like, let me lie in bed a wee while longer in the morning. There's always something else to be at. That yard, if you're looking at it, and I don't know if you were in the shed, but the, what's sitting in it. There's crone, to start with, mowing wise. There's a set of B a thousandths butterflies and a set of B 870s. And then there's a big M 450. And then there's a 1300 tether crone. And the 1370 408 crone. Two Amazon drills. An Amazon fertilizer sore. An APV grass drill. We're pretty much all covered. Bob is more than happy to change because that man, like, he wouldn't be where he is today if things didn't change. He started out with horses. There's a lot of changes from a fortune major or whatever he used to contract with. So, he's definitely not scared to try something different, but... Would you have been lifting much grass in April when you were at it? No. Earlier on? No. Middle of May. No, no, no. In May. No. July. July. First cut. We've been third cut by July. July. She's working rightly for the horse part she has. Ah, sure is. You can still use it. Ah, that's right. It's tight to toss her a bit there. Ah, yeah, there's a wild steep wee bit when you get on around here a bit. It's worse when you're in the ups and downs in the middle of the field. Oh, man. That's the good thing about the longer chute. Oh, it is. A wee bit further away from me. I'm sure it is. With that, with the... Which is about the same distance of the glass away here. I think it will be slightly longer but there's not a lot of... That's slightly longer. Ah, yeah. What turns your chute come through? That there's your chute. Side to side. Ah, I see. That there. And then that lifts it up. Ah, and then that's your header. Ah, and then that one. Ah, and then that's your header. You're forward and back. It just returns every time, you know, to the middle. She returns to centre every time. So you've got to gear more, you do that and gear. Pull her back. Ah, ah. Nice note to hear the... The crop press bang. I'm not sure what that will take. That was a bang on the way of the low. You just cruise... You're left in a lot of grass there. Like, you can cruise along just at your ease, you know. Oh, yeah. And it needs to be pushing. The classic bear always sat in there, plenty of pusher to do that. You know, that's just cruising. Yeah. The sailor can keep up with that, sure. That's the main thing. You're not feared any lumps in front. No, you're not even really watching the row there. Yeah. That boy yesterday that was out with me, Cormac, he was saying she'll open the way up after 500 hours. She'll be a different animal all together. I can fix that engine beds in rightly. Yeah. It'll get a bit more power out of it. I don't think she was too bad as that. I do think you would need that ever down bush. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No, unless a very big, smooth row and you can actually labour the engine, you know. What makes that engine a sleeper? Aye, labour. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Well, in the farming industry definitely people are opposed to change. I think sometimes you don't take a risk. There's no reward. My grandfather always told me when you're contracting, try and keep the customers happy as best you can and sometimes it's easier said than done but you always try and in turn we need the best equipment and the best staff that we can and right now we think we are, we're in a good place as far as both so we're trying our best to please everybody. you