Haying Equipment Part 2
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=etOAFaz7W2M
Howto & Style
 Hello and welcome YouTubers. So this is the second installment of the hanging equipment. This is the equipment getting loaded on in Langley, Walder Grove. And the next photo coming up is going to be of the equipment as I'm bringing it over on the ferry source. But it's sideways there and some of this was captured in photos and then I got a short video clip here at the end. So as I'm coming over on the ferry boat this is sort of what it all looked like. And then I started unloading the equipment. And so the first tractor that you saw there that was at the off-site and I started to unload it with my machine here. And yeah things went pretty well for the most part. And so you see the tether coming off there and here's the tether and the drum mower. Here's the side rake coming off. And so I got those three pieces off fairly well as you can see here. And then we get to the baler. And that turned out to be a bit of a fiasco. So I'll just cut into the next video here and you'll see me. So there she sits. Baler is off loaded. So it was a bit sketchy. But as you can imagine offloading it with a dump truck, two chain falls and a little Komodo L5450. Makes for a bit of a sketchy scenario. But she's off in one piece. Or as many pieces as it comes out. And here's the rest of it. So we've got New Holland 275 baler. Which needs a fair bit of TLC. And New Holland side rake. And she needs a couple of tires and some grease. And she'll be okay. And then we've got a VE disc mower. And our wonderful Far Teder. And she needs a little TLC too. One of the bearings on the end is toast here. With a red flag on it. And we've got a ton of wood. And all in all, this is what we're going to start with. And never done any farming activity really before. And say hi, Reggie. and definitely no haying but we're going to endeavor to get some stuff done this year and learn and figure things out thanks again for watching everyone please remember to like comment and subscribe and we'll see you on the next one