Beginning Farmer Resources
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EU0UdJUWRP4
Entertainment
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. We will talk to you here in a few minutes. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'm going to Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. We have a tip. The next tab of the next tab. The next tab. The next tab tab. And the next tab that we have is the resources tab. on the financial plan here, because I know we have more, let's go to financial position, because I know we have more resources that are specific to that section. So for example, we have, looks like five resources that are here. And again, we could click on each of these that would take us to whatever that resource is. If it's a video, you could actually click on the video and watch it right here in AgPlan. The next thing we think that is pretty important to being able to write a business plan is to have a sample, something that you can look at to kind of get an idea of what other people might have been writing. So under the samples, if I click on the Lakeshore Orchard, you can actually see what the sample had for this specific section. So you kind of get an idea of what things are there to look at. All right, so the next section is comments. So right now it kind of looks a little bland, but I could add a comment here. And I could say, I could just add a note that I want to come back and think about. So add PDF of balance sheet. So that's great that I just added that note for me to come back and look at. But one of the real powers of AgPlan is the ability to add a reviewer, to give someone access so that they can come in and review the plan and AgPlan. Or if they're a partner or someone else, you can actually give them access so that they can write the plan. So I'm actually going to click on the red X right here, which will save my work and then take me back to my plan, to my plan section. Then once that loads, I'm going to click on the reviewers. And I have Rachel Purdy, who's another economist with us here at the Center for Farm Financial Management. And I'm going to add her email address. Now she's registered in AgPlan with that email address, but if she wasn't, she would get an email invitation saying, hey, you're invited to be able to register for AgPlan and then review my plan. I'm going to give her comments and edit access here because I want her to be able to go through and actually edit the plan itself. But you can actually just say only comments. And I'm going to click add reviewer. And you can see that she has been added to my list. So I'm going to return to my plans here. And now I'm going to go back into my plan by clicking view plan. And now it's going to take us back to that section that we were just in. So again, financial position. But now I have a new tab. I can click on email reviewers and I can actually email Rachel right from within AgPlan. I can click her name and I can say, please review my balance sheet. And if I want to include the comments, I can click yes. And then I can then send it. And then that will send her an email. And you can see what that email sent from within AgPlan is right here. So there are some nice features that are there. The way that you navigate through the site, if you haven't caught on to that, you can actually just click anywhere in the outline. Or you can click on the green buttons here, previous and next. And also this middle button in between the previous and next, that is the save button. So if you're working on a section that's pretty long, you might want to just hit save every once in a while. It's still a word processing document. All right. So then we have these buttons in blue just underneath here. The pencil button is just where we're at. That's editing the plan. The next button is all comments. So you can see all of the comments that have been added to the plan. Right now we only have one. I'm going to skip the middle one and go down to the paper clip button. If I click that paper clip, I can actually add attachments, PDF attachments. So I'm going to call this one the balance sheet. And let's see where that decides to open up. I'm going to add... I have got way too many things on here, but I'm going to go ahead and just add this... Add a document here. I'm going to click add attachment. And now it's added that attachment. So if you have it, if you've developed a balance sheet through FinPak or through the AgPlan financial spreadsheet that's available in AgPlan, you can actually print that as a PDF and upload it here to your plan. Then we're going to go back to the print button. Once we click on that print button, I'm going to leave this as business plan only. And I'm going to click view print plan. So once we've worked on that plan and a business plan is never really done. It's a living document. It's one that we want you to come back and review every so often. But now we actually have where you can download it as a Word version, or you can download it like if you want to send it to your lender, you could actually click on that. And that's going to download. And then you can see that the business plan has been created. Now we don't have very much in this, but you can see what sections we do have. So we have the marketing plan and then we have a list of the attachments. And this is actually what I attached. So you can actually see anything that was uploaded as a PDF is going to be uploaded or attached to the end of that tool or the end of that business plan. So the other thing that I want to show you here, and you saw that in some of the tips, there are some specific resources or some specific videos that are for each kind of the main headings. However, but if you're curious about how to write a business plan, we actually have a course called Developing Your Business Plan, which you can actually find on the front page, not logged in version of AgPlan. But in the upper bar here, just to the left of where it says log out, you click on that, that will open a new tab and it will actually take you to a course that Rachel and Katie Johnson and I from here at the Center for Front Financial Management just finished recording. And it will actually give you some tips on how to write specific sections of your business plan. So, and then you can actually just, there's 15 videos here. I think the longest one is, let's see, the longest one looks to be about six minutes and 15 seconds. So they're not very long, but you can actually go and just watch all of those. All right. So I know I threw a lot at you about AgPlan. Hopefully, if you have questions, you can actually just reach out to us at any time. We'll be more than happy to answer those questions. But are there any questions that you guys have at this point before we move over to Ag Transitions? Okay. Well, I'm going to go ahead and stop sharing and then I'm going to turn it over to Rachel Purdy, who's going to talk about Ag Transitions. Good afternoon, everybody. Thank you, Curtis. So as Curtis mentioned, I am Rachel Purdy. I am also an extension economist with the Center for Farm Financial Management out of the University of Minnesota. And I'm happy to be here with you all this afternoon. So as Curtis mentioned, I'm going to be going over Ag Transitions. And the nice thing about Ag Transitions is that it is very similar operationally to AgPlan, which is what Curtis just went over. And Ag Transitions is available for free at agtransitions.umn.edu. And so like an ag plan, Ag Transitions does have a complimentary training video series. And this video series is done by myself and a few extension educators from the University of Minnesota, both Amber Roberts and Megan Roberts. And so on these videos, we discuss kind of the philosophy behind what transition planning looks like. And we have a video available for each of the major sections in Ag Plan. And like Curtis had mentioned earlier, the videos aren't very long. The longest one's about four minutes long. So it's a quick overview for transition planning. And I already have an account. So I'm going to go ahead and log in here. And I have several plans already made. So these are two of them that I own personally. And you can see on this transition plan, I have a reviewer already set up. And then over here, I review three plans. Three people have given me access to review plans. And so if I were to go ahead and click into one of these plans, it should feel very familiar to what you saw in Ag Transitions. I'm going to go ahead and click the Expand All button here at the top left. And that will expand all of these subsections. And so you can see the green leaf icon indicates that there is content within that subsection, meaning that I have written something in there. And if I look through, we have kind of a few main sections within, but then subsections within each of those. So the Getting Started is just this cover page. But we have personal information. And in this section, we ask people to lay out who they are, what they have, what's that business look like today, and anybody that helps them along the way, like their advisors. This is helpful for transition planning just because it gives everybody a starting point of what's going on. And if I go into the vision and goals section here, this is somewhere where reviewers can be very helpful. If you're working with a business, especially a family business, looking to transition into the next generation, this is a place where you can add different reviewers and let the successors actually lay out what their vision is, what their goals are. And then that can facilitate that family meeting of where everybody's at and where we want to get. And within each of these sections, we do have tips, resources, worksheets, and a sample plan that I'll go over here in just a little bit. And the business transfer plan, this is where we start really laying out the nuts and bolts of what do we want to accomplish and how we're going to actually pass this business to the next generation, even down to further details if necessary. And the nice thing about both this and Ag Plan is that these business owners do not need to use every section. They can use as many as they want, of course, but they certainly don't need to use them all. And just because when we think about retiring from a business, passing a business on, and this whole transition and succession plan, oftentimes that goes hand in hand with that retirement plan. And so this gives people an opportunity to lay out what retirement would look like for them personally, even down to sources of income, where they're going to live, et cetera. The final piece of Ag Transitions is this estate plan preparation. And throughout all of Ag Transitions, the thought process behind this is that this is not a substitute for professionals such as a lawyer or an accountant. What this is is a way to be prepared for when you do go speak to your attorney and get that will written and just to save on those billable hours so we don't have to spend a couple hours talking about what we have and where we want to get. So this is just a way to get a jump start on that. I'm going to hop back into the business transfer plan section into the financial viability just to illustrate some of these tips, resources, worksheets, et cetera. So every section has tips, which is usually just about a short paragraph describing what we envision this section being used for. The next subsection here is resources and so throughout all of these resources these are just links and so like this is a link to IFSAM which Curtis will be talking about in just a moment developing and interpreting your financial statements and measures. The next tab is worksheets and so these are typically downloadable forms or activities to help people think through each of these sections. I'm going to click into the financial viability spreadsheet. This is an Excel file that we created as part of Ag Transitions to help people who might have some different thoughts as far as the financial elements of transferring that business. So I'm going to just add in a few numbers and just gets us to that total cash total net farm income here and anywhere it's yellow is where they would enter in loan payments for instance or cash inflows and outflows. the final screen is this really the nuts and bolts of how we break up different scenarios as far as the net farm cash flow and so say we have two families we have the parents and maybe we have a daughter and we're looking at the succession plan and so we can add in different family living draws and different scenarios just to see how everybody's net family cash flow would look based on that succession plan and you can do it up to seven families or six families excuse me at one time and go ahead and enter those names and split that income out throughout different generations or individuals. so this is just another tool that can help people look through what that transition plan might look like and again on the sample this one we do have one sample it's a dairy farm and so that just gives people a way to look at what might be an example of a transition plan and think through that as with AgPlan Curtis did a great job of illustrating what comments and emailing reviewers looks like and so if I leave a comment maybe the financial viability spreadsheet here or anything like that I can add the comment and then everybody can see what I wrote and so that can be a helpful way to communicate or work through this together as with AgPlan you can look at all of the comments within that plan and so you can see the one comment that I left on the relevant section as with AgPlan I can add attachments that I would like any PDFs we also just because some of the terminology associated with succession estate planning transition planning can be full of some legal jargon we do have a glossary here just to help people out with that and then a little bit of help built into Ag Transitions does have the ability to do things like if I go back to home and pull up a different plan I did get a comment yes I have two plans under the same name that isn't an issue it's just how it worked out in the case of my examples but if I go into the Oliver Dairy you can see that I have two PDF attachments balance sheet and income statement if I go back to the cover page you can see I put in a picture here some people might like a picture of maybe some specialized equipment or a logo not you can insert that through the image manager in here and like in Agplan like Curtis said it's a basic word processor and so I can underline things or strike through any of that copy paste cut add in tables really make this my own and make it work for what I'm hoping to do I'm going to go ahead and print this you can do it as a PDF or a Word document and so if I go ahead and print that plan and pull it up this is the PDF that it gives me and if I click through it I have this really nice table of contents and I can actually click into the various sections and so I just clicked into the vision and goals here but the cool thing about this like an Ag plan is if I go down here to the bottom I talked about that balance sheet and income statement those they're right here those PDFs get pulled in which is a really nice way to compile some of that information and so with that Ag transitions again if something happens and I don't want that reviewer to still have access I can revoke that access for whatever reason so you get to choose how much that you share your plan and with whom you share your plan so with that Curtis do you have anything to add or would you like to move on to the interpreting and developing financial statements yeah and Rachel did a great job of really highlighting ag transitions I know she's worked hard on over the last couple of years but and as you can see there's a lot of similarities between ag plan and ag transitions and as you're working with beginning farmers or if you're a beginning farmer yourself these are great places to start and ag plan really is the writing of the business plan so that you can explain to someone else what you're doing and why you're doing it a lot of times the questions that we get of should I have a business plan or should I have a transition plan writing it down and doing it in these types of venues has tremendous value because it just gets your ideas out on paper and it puts everybody on the same page we've tried to build in some communication tools between the two so that you can interact around the tool itself and that's really where we think the power of these tools really comes in so are there any questions that you guys have for Rachel on ag transitions all right if not thank you Rachel and we'll I'm going to start sharing my screen and we'll talk about the last tool that we have or the last resource that we have to talk about today and one that really is kind of the fits right into the bailiwick of what the Center for Farm Financial Management does we like to say or I like to say that CFFM has a tool for someone or at any point in their farming journey whether they are exploring farming or whether they are transitioning out like what we just saw with with ag transitions and with what Rachel said once we get to the if Sam portion of what we're talking about and if Sam really stands for interpreting your financial statements and measures what we're trying to do with this course and we have this developing portion that we just added this year but we're trying to help people understand what records to keep how to do accrual financial statements so that we can get at some of those ratios that are used by the Farm Financial Standards Council and used kind of industry wide whenever it comes to financial farming financials and things like that it helps people like me people like you kind of understand what they're trying to do and what is going on in the farm and the financials and really the financials to me are just a map everything that happens on the farm is is somewhere in those financials so with this course developing and interpreting your financial statements and measures you can find this at ifsam.cffm.umn.edu that's ifsam.cffm.umn.edu and then here once you're here we actually have the two courses so ifsam itself the interpreting portion of this course has been around for 10 15 years where we've actually been helping people understand how to interpret their farm financial measures but what we've kind of seen and with beginning farmers just kind of in general not specific to any particular type of farm is that people when they first come into farming they're not necessarily understanding how to put these things together so if I start with our developing portion Rachel and I actually recorded along with Pauline Van Nerden from our office recorded the developing financial statements and measures and then in here if I click into that again you can read a little bit and actually let me let me stop let me share my sound with this because that might become important but within each of these we have these major headings just an introduction talking about the course itself accounting and record keeping balance sheet income statement statement of owner's equity statement of cash flows the ratios and then pulling it all together I'm going to click into the balance sheet because it's our most expansive each of these I'm not going to hear my own voice yet as we come into these these are videos on just what we're looking for in the balance sheet if you have prepaid CSAs we have a video on how you handle that on the balance sheet because there are some specific things that go into how do we do that and then with each of these major sections we have a little bit of a quiz because we want to be able to build these things build that knowledge gap up and fill that knowledge gap so if I click on to that and I'm just going to warn you there will be a sound here so hopefully it's not too loud but I'm going to click on the play button so that we can walk through this course and as you click on that the sound comes through and then we come into the question so the question here is the balance sheet is and then we just have sounds for each of those and then with each of them we have an answer kind of explaining how we got to that and then with this one I think there are five questions that are there the other thing I'm going to click back on where it says developing financial statements and measures that will take me back to the main list and I'm going to go into pulling it all together the other thing that I'll note is that if you just hit previous or next it will take you through each of the videos so you can just keep clicking next and it will take you to the next video the pulling it all together really this is one of our key things that we wanted to focus on with this course is that it's great to put all these together but what do you do with it and before we actually get to the interpreting financial statements course where we're actually talking about how to interpret those we actually have a former lender on our staff and Pauline Van Nurden so what we did is we worked together and really had her put her lender hat back on and how do we use this information how do you work with your lender does show up again in the interpreting side but you can see how this all works so with the question that I just got of how long are the financial statements videos there might be a couple that are longer than five minutes but we really here at CFFM when we do online training you will see that we'll have hundreds of videos in some cases I think about our Finpack online training series that we have there is something like 350 videos that we have available because we want to keep them short we want people to be able to come in get their information really quick be able to figure out what they're doing and then continue to move on so that's why you see if I go back to our main section here you can see that we have 24 videos in the balance sheet just because they're all pretty short we want again to be able to help people be able to come in find what they're needing or if you and again if you've taken any online courses over the last year you might get 45 minutes in and then get interrupted and then you have to figure out where you're at again well that's one of the things we're trying to and then I'm going to talk about the interpreting financial statements course so if I click on that this course is a little bit lengthier but what we are doing in this course it really is walking through how do we interpret these numbers how can we use all of the financial statements that we just put together in the developing financial statements course how do we take that and we use that to our advantage and so Dale Norquist Bob Craven and Pauline Benner walk through how do we explain the statement of owner's equity one a statement that's not really used that much in agriculture but it has some tremendous value and then we get into the ratios so if you have a weak current ratio how do you improve it those are some of the things that they talk about in each of these sections and within each of these sections we have a tester knowledge again here so again trying to build up that knowledge that we work on so again if I click give you an idea of what the quiz questions look like here looks like here so if it says if a farm is liquid it means that they are unable to meet their near term financial obligations they have lots of debt which is B C they are able to meet near term financial obligations or D they have too much cash so in this case they're able to meet it and then see what the other ones are so and then again we have the answer explained for each of those so in all I don't remember how many videos they are that we have here but again we try to keep things fresh and moving as we go through it but again this is really the if Sam and the developing and interpreting portions these really are some of the bailiwicks of what we do here at the Center for Farm Financial Management so do I have any questions out there about this course again up here let me actually just go ahead I'll put up my PowerPoint again just so you can get that link that's at if sam.cffm.umn.edu all right and those links are also in the chat if you're wanting to copy them and save them right thank you Rachel and I'll send that out again when I send out the recording of the webinar I'll send those links out again so you can get to them the other thing and we're not going to talk about it because we've done several videos or several webinars about this but farm answers dot org you can find all of these links available at farm answers dot org which is the beginning farm and ranch development program clearinghouse website so it's got a resource in fact I think I as I was writing something last week we have over 5500 documents that are beginning farmer focused so you can go and actually find all of the resources that you could want again I'm not going to talk about it here today but a great resource to send beginning farmers and ranchers to if you yourself have a resource or something like that that you would want to add to farm answers just let me know and then we will work to get it let me actually go back to this slide because that's the end of the content that we actually have but I'm putting out a request so if there are topics or different things that you would like to see us cover as we start thinking about next year's beginning farm and rancher development program clearinghouse webinar series again send those to me and then we will be working on putting together what that series looks like I know we we've got several topics that are around developing success stories and I think that's going to be a good webinar for us to be doing because really we want to showcase the impact that BFRDP has had in particular as we get a new administration and USDA we want to be able to showcase the strength and the outputs and the outcomes and the changed lives that BFRDP has had so if you have ideas for webinars just feel free to let me know you can just respond you can just email me directly and then I will add them to my list so with that are there any other questions that you have about what we've covered today okay well let me I think I got past that let me see if I can get back to that one slide where I have my my nice real estate photo so if you want to be added to the BFRDP listserv it's here I know it's here there it is you can email me at cmonken at umn.edu and I will say too I was doing a little bit of a test here today with streaming this to YouTube and then trying to stream it through farm answers org so hopefully we people will be able to go and watch this webinar there as well so that they can get an idea of the tools that are out there so with that I guess if there are no other questions thank you for joining us thank you Rachel for presenting on ag transitions and we will be in touch about the next BFRDP webinar and we'll try to figure out what that topic is again thank you everyone and have a great rest of your week and we will talk to you down the road and and one nest who Moore lives and does put in $10 in try $10 that you eat those don't move down the difference everyako in $10 that of