Seeding justice: Food access and farmer viability in our communities | Deidre Grim | TEDxSavannah
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eurIrWZQMbI
Nonprofits & Activism
 Sit back and take a ride with me. Envision riding in an 86 Chrysler Fifth Avenue, floating and gliding down the dirt roads of Charleston County, and ending up in a place where seemingly the fields never ended, in a time where respect for our elders was ingrained in the very fabric of our culture. Growing up in the South, you learned at an early age to honor those who toil for you, whether those were teachers, doctors, clergy, but especially farmers. There was a reverence, a deep-seated appreciation for those who toiled to feed us, for the blood, the sweat, and the tears that went into every harvest. I can hear my mom now saying, if a man don't work, a man don't eat. And you best believe I was going to eat. While she was ensuring that our neighbors and friends ate. It was these lessons imparted in me as a child that would continue to understand, grow my understanding of food and the world around me. She would lead me out by the hand into the field or the garden, where we would plant seeds and pull weeds. But the time used to drag on and on and on and on. But it all became worth it when little sprouts emerged from the ground. You see, for my mom, gardening wasn't just a hobby, it was a way of life. A connection to our ancestors, to our community, and to our people. And now, for me, the same. You see, my ancestors were brought here, not by choice, but by force. Forced to leave everything behind them that meant something to them. Their families, their communities, their land. Settling in what we now call the Gullah Geechee Corridor. And in the midst of brutality and oppression, they carried with them a particular skill. The ability to coax life out of the land. Particularly rice. You see, I grew up eating rice every day. Maybe even three times. It didn't matter if it was eggs and rice, pork and beans and rice, collard greens and rice. Rice seemed to make everything better. And just as rice became a staple of my upbringing, I'm quite sure the same for many of you in the audience. And rice would go on to transform our local food system and economy with its humble presence. For generations, the knowledge of farming was passed down from parent to child, elder to youth. It was a legacy of resilience. A defiance in the face of adversity. It is that same legacy that I carry with me today. A legacy to support myself, self-sufficiency, and independence. But as I look around myself today, all I see is a world that is increasingly disconnected from its roots. A world where the journey from field to kitchen is obscured with layers of promotions and marketing. Y'all know, y'all know, we hear buzzwords like farm to table tossed around in your local trendy restaurants, even meal prep kits, but even your local bar. But how many of us truly understand the journey that it takes for our food to get to our plates? The truth is that there is a disconnect. A disconnect between farm to table is not just a matter of convenience, but a symptom of a much larger problem. According to AgCenter News in 2022, while we were inundated with slick, glossy media ads, 10 major food companies raked in nearly $500 billion in revenue. Meanwhile, our local farmers, the very backbones of our food system, struggled to make ends meet. And according to the USDA, the net income from small to mid-sized farms, such as Joseph Fields and Virtu, the ones who worked tirelessly to feed us, their net income was less than half what the Big Ten raked in. And if that wasn't sobering enough, in 2023, the decreased net income of small to mid-sized farms decreased by 20%, with a projection of further decreasing of 27% in years to come. So what does that mean for our local food system? What does that mean for our local economy? It means the majority of the money that we spend on groceries leaves our community and lines the pockets of corporations that have no vested interest in us or our well-being. Consequently, consequently, it means that for our local economy, the dollars no longer circulate here to make a greater impact. You know, tourism is good. But what about our local food system? What about our local farmers? Because food justice rooted in the notion that everyone deserves equitable access to healthy, nutritious, affordable, and culturally relevant foods is a fundamental right. And that starts with supporting our farmers. But y'all, I refuse to succumb into despair in light of these grim statistics. No pun intended. For I believe in the power to effect change lies in each and every one of us. It lies in the choices that we make, the voices that we amplify, and the actions that we take. So it is time for us to reclaim the narrative of our food. It is time for us to bridge that gap between farm and table, producer and consumer. And it's been time for us to show up for our local farmers. Not with our words, but with our wallets and with our actions. For the measure of a community's greatness has nothing to do with the wealth of our corporations, but in the well-being of our people and the next generation to come. And it's up to us to ensure that local farmers, our communities, and the next generation are able to thrive. And nowhere is this convergence more pertinent than in the realm of food justice. And, as I said before, it all begins with our farmers. These are the stewards of our land. They are the glue of our community that continue to feed us and cultivate our well-being. By supporting local farmers, we're not only just investing in our sustainability, but in our food system and the bonds that bind us together. Because we are all a family. But that unification doesn't stop there. It extends beyond the farm gate and into every area, nook and cranny of our communities. It causes us to re-examine our values, challenge the systems of oppression and inequities that continue to perpetuate food insecurity and marginalization. implores us to recognize the dignity and humanity of those who labor and feed us for their struggles, for their contribution, for their time. And in order to actualize food justice, all you need is a little bit of rice. R, reduce food waste by minimizing your food waste, utilizing the tools as food planning, storing food properly, and composting scraps. I, invest in food education. Support initiatives such as farm-to-school programs, gardening education programs, and culinary education in our school system. C, choose sustainable practices. Opt to purchase produce that is regeneratively grown as well as organic from your local farmers and your local farmers market. And E, educate yourself. Learn where your food comes from. Learn what goes into your food. As well as take some time to talk to your farmers and learn what they're going through and the challenges that they face. For the true essence of food justice lies not in the intersections of systems and structures, but in the merging of hearts and minds. It is a recognizing of the shared humanity that our shared responsibility is for each other. It is also standing in solidarity with those who have been marginalized and disenfranchised while working together to build a future for the next generation to have access to healthy, nutritious food. For it is through this convergence of ideals and actions that we can truly build a future where every meal tells a story of resilience, of love, of nourishment, and of hope. So let's cultivate a little bit of rice, y'all, for a more just and sustainable food system, ensuring that every bite that we take contributes to a world where equity and sustainability flourish. Thank you. fun music music music music