TERMINATE WINTER RYE COVER CROPS WITH THIS HACK!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=evXb_rnR81c
Education
 Right behind me here is a newly planted bed of habanero peppers, but just a few days ago it was a cover crop of winter rye. And in this video I'm going to show you how to use winter rye cover crops as a sheet mulch in a no-till garden. The winter rye crop behind me was planted in like mid-September. The date today is April 30th. It's very important that before you actually crimp the winter rye that it has these flower heads on it. We want to crimp it before it forms a viable seed, but it's still ready to die. And that's how the plant will die easily by crimping and tarping. Otherwise the plant's just going to want to spring right back up and it's going to be hard to terminate basically. So it grew all winter with no irrigation right next to this high tunnel. And the reason I put it there is for erosion control basically and to kind of make the soil better in that area too. That bed's just never really performed really great. And then the water rushes off that high tunnel and kind of washes off these beds because the whole garden's on an incline this way. And all my other beds go in this direction except for this high tunnel and these beds. So the water usually rushes down the hill this way, which works good in most of my garden. But in this part of the garden, it kind of causes problems, wash out. And so my thought is that I put a pause button on it for the winter, help with erosion control, keep the soil in place, while at the same time bringing nutrients up from way deep down within the soil. And then how I'm going to crimp this helps build the soil up help with like wash out and stuff that I'm going to have. So to crimp it, this is just like a standard T post, right? Nothing fancy, it costs no money. This is just leftover rope from when I bought the caterpillar tunnels. I've got four greenhouses and they come this rope to help hold the plastic down and there's always extra. So it's great for little projects around the farm, things like that. So I'm literally just cutting off like an arm's length of this rope and then I'm going to tie it around my T post. So I've got two lengths. They're not quite exactly the same size, but it doesn't really matter. I'm going to tie them to the T post first. So I just tie a loop in it like this. And that makes it so that I can make a loop like this. Just kind of lasso that around my T post. That's it. And I'm going to do something similar on this end. And that's it. And I'm just going to take this like this. And that's it. And so now I'm just going to take the tool. I'm just going to step on it. I'm just going to crimp it right down to the ground. So the next step is to tarp it and the wetter the better. So if you can like run your irrigation over it first or I'm just since it's such a small little plot, I'm just going to water it with the hose. But you really want to like trap the moisture in under the tarp. And that really helps like steam it to kill the cover crop. If I were to just leave it like that, it's just going to spring right back up and keep growing. I find that the tarping with this method like actually is necessary. And then it can't just be like any tarp. You don't want to like go to Home Depot and just pick up a tarp. It has to be a silage tarp. And then I always make the grass facing one way. So then I can bring the drag the tarp over it that way. And I'm bringing it all this way. That way the grass doesn't get caught on it like going that way. I just kind of like pieced together some tarps that I had laying around here. Greenhouse plastic left over from when I built the greenhouses to kind of get this end because it you know all my tarps are 50 feet long for my 50 foot long beds. But then when you crimp the cover crop, it sticks out like several feet. So if you don't cover that somehow and get it to die, it's going to like curl back up towards the sun in my experience. All right. So it's been about like 10 days. I think that I crimped the winter rye last Wednesday. And today's Thursday. So it's been eight days. It's interesting to see like at the other end, like I put that little piece of greenhouse plastic instead of silage tarp. And that just turned brown like within a few days. I just kind of peeked under the tarp and it's still a little bit green. It's not completely brown, but it's like kind of rotty smelling, you know, like it's dead. It's not coming back. Um, so I'd like to wait like another, I'd love to leave the tarp there for another week. But the truth is I got to go do deliveries all day tomorrow. I got two workers that are going to be here. They need something to do. I got pepper plants that are this tall that I need to get planted. So I just need to get plants in the ground, get these beds, making me money, keep my workers busy. So I'm just going to get this bed prepped and ready for them. Um, so I'm going to pull the tarps back and we'll see what it looks like. There you go. You can see that's what it looks like after about eight days, you can see it's all facing the same direction. It's like straw. It's like mulching your garden with straw. Only it was grown there and the roots are still in the ground. And then, so I thought it was really interesting. Like on this end, you can see how it's just like brown, brown dead. So I had a little extra scrap piece of greenhouse plastic that I put right here. And that's the difference of like solarizing it or using the silage tarp. So if you got a piece of greenhouse plastic, I mean, you, I mean, it looked like that after two days. So you could essentially tarp this with greenhouse plastic for two days, be done, build your beds and plant something out. There was a bed of arugula right next to it. And then it just so happened that we harvested that bed of arugula the same day as we crimped this cover crop. So we harvested the arugula, crimped the cover crop, and then just tarped both beds to terminate both beds. So now both beds are ready to be replanted. So I'm just going to like measure out my beds. I use states with strings attached and I measure out the bed so I can keep straight lines. And I'm going to freshen up all the wood chips along the side of the tunnel right here, put fresh compost right on top of this winter rye, and then fresh compost on top of this terminated arugula bed. And we're going to plant peppers in both of these beds. I'm pretty sure I'm going to go ahead, get them measured out and get the beds rebuilt. I just kind of like keep a few of these buckets around. And so I just grabbed the bucket, you know, it's got like a hammer in it, tape measure, and a bunch of these things just with string on them so I can string the beds up, measure them out, and keep everything nice and straight. There's a few weeds I'm going to go and hoe them out. You always want to take care of any weeds now. You know, you don't want to ignore the weeds that are right here on the sides that you missed because those are just going to become big weeds, drop seeds, and then you're just going to have more weeds. You want to take care of that stuff now, and then you don't have to come back and weed this garden ever. The winter rye not only acts as a mulch, but it's got an aleopathic effect. So it mulches the soil, and then it inhibits weed seeds that might be in the soil from germinating for several weeks anyways. It doesn't last forever. But now I'm going to put compost right on top of that and then wood chips in the walkways. And you don't necessarily have to put wood chips in the walkways. You can just use the winter rye as a mulch, but I just find it's like difficult to walk on. So if you're going to walk in your walkways a lot, you're going to slip on the winter rye, but it does a great job at mulching the bed. And then once I put compost on top of that, like you're not going to get any weeds for the rest of the year on that bed. Okay, so now that I put the compost down, I'm going to go ahead and like rake the compost smooth on the beds. And then once that's nice and tight, then I come back in and I fill in kind of the gap with wood chips. And it just kind of like fills the raised bed kind of nicely, you know, and like how I showed you how I crimp it all in one direction on purpose. Like I really messed it up by going this way with the wheelbarrow. You can see how like by stepping on it and walking that way with it, it like I like kicked it up. So I'm going to try to fix that the best I can. So I was out doing my deliveries today and I had Max and Katie, my workers, uh, finish this in with filling it in with wood chips. Uh, I told them that we'll harvest this bed of Salanova lettuce next week and then we'll, uh, fill in the wood chips right there. And then we'll probably freshen up that whole big, uh, little walkway right there. But, um, so this is what it looks like when we're done, right? You can't even tell that there's a cover crop under there. So I just built the garden right on top of the sheet mulch cover crop. So I'll show you what it looks like. here in the water carpet colors.