Meet the Animal Waste and Nutrient Management Team
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJkT-wDW5I
Education
 In the Alabama Cooperative Extension System, we are in the business of helping people. The Animal Waste and Nutrient Management Team can help producers effectively use the manure and nutrients within it. Alabama Cooperative Extension is my number one go-to and resource for my farming operation. Our team consists of Extension Specialists, Regional Agents and Agency Partners who want to help producers use animal waste in a way which is beneficial both to their farms and their environment. Our mission is truly to talk about environmental stewardship and what nutrient management should be, how nutrient management is a part of environmental stewardship. We have a lot of soils in this state that are degraded soils. We've got to figure out those ways that we can be more productive and one of the best ways to do that is to increase soil health and we can do that through wise use of animal manures. Soil and manure testing has great benefits. It is important to know not only what you have in your soils but also what you are applying to them. We recommend testing on a regular basis by sending samples to a soil testing lab like the one here at Auburn University. Soil testing, grid sampling is one of the best things you can do. You need to know what's going on in your soil and what your needs are. We can give you information on efficient use of manure such as when and how much to apply. I definitely would say here and on any cropland acres we certainly don't over apply. We try to apply enough to get what we need to get as far as yields and get the pasture where we need to get it. And by using soil tests to try to see if we should or shouldn't apply. Over applying fertilizer, it's not throwing money away but it's not helping the environment. You really have to pay attention to your nutrient management. There's as much to be lost from over application as there is under application. We have to do it wisely. We can't skirt by what we know as being sound environmental stewardship practices and so we can do that. We're not here selling anything. We have nothing but free advice to give and so that's what we're all about is helping growers to help themselves and to help the land also. There's times certainly that I've called a regional extension agent up. Those are great resources to help us. It helps clear the mind up and answer the question. So we've got to produce much more with less. We're all working together toward the same goal and we'll get the job done but it's a partnership in between the farmer and extension that's going to help us to get there. Call or email us and we will help you find the answers you need. For more information, check out our website or our Facebook page.