Simple Method for Planting Small Food Plots
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=feFfw99fddA
Sports
 Music Alright guys, you can see here I'm starting with cleaning off the food plot. Pick up all the twigs, any loose leaves, anything like that. You'll see here in a second that I start raking it after I get the large debris off from it. Any of those weeds I like to pull as well. Here you go, you can see me raking now. Just make sure you get the food plot nice and clean. Everything out of the way so that you can get good seed to soil contact. That's one of the most important things for your grass or food plot to grow successfully. Next you can see me throwing an extra weight on my drag. This is a homemade drag that I made. I put a rope on there for me to pull. I don't have any access to large equipment, any discs or anything like that. So I just took a 2x4 frame, pretty simple design and used a bunch of lag bolts. Kind of as my method for breaking up the ground. And the added weight on top is just a target of mine. If I added much more weight than that it seemed like it was too hard to pull just cause it was digging too deep into the ground. So this is a pretty good method. I like to use it a lot. It stirs up the ground a little bit and then once I spread the seed, it gives it a little bit better seed to soil contact than if I were to just leave it on dry bare ground. So next guys I'm going to go ahead and show you the seed that I use and also the procedure I use for spreading that seed. Alright guys, this is the, it's just a simple throw and grow. It's made by Evolved Harvest. This one actually has some radishes in it. They call it extreme. I'm sure it's got a lot of grass, a lot of different brassica, a little bit of clover. And then it advertises radish. So last year I just planted the regular throw and grow and it worked well. So we'll see how this one does. Alright guys, so here all I'm using is just a simple, cheap, Scott's surf builder. Like $12 or $15 seed spreader. And I just walk through the whole food plot and then try and spread it as even as possible. And try and walk the same speed and get a good even coat of seed all over the whole thing. Next I fill up my sprayer with a little bit of Miracle-Gro and some water. And I'll pump it up here and start spraying the food plot. I like using this type of sprayer because it gives a nice even mist across it and I don't run the risk of burning out or putting too much fertilizer down on any of this seed. Basically what I like about this is it pretty much coats the seed real lightly so it kind of sticks to the ground. And then that will help give it a little bit better seed soil contact. I hope you guys have found this a little bit informational. Let me know what you think in the comments below. There we go. Let me know what you're saying. Yeah. Erin. I love diagnosing the pulse of this earth.