Mob Grazing: taking a look at the benefits of pasture cropping
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Fi7iozpMuvs
Nonprofits & Activism
 So this field was pasture cropped. So by pasture cropping what we talk about is stitching in an annual crop straight into perennial grass. So this was in March this was bale grazed and then we went in the next day and direct drilled in oats and brassica, barley. There's some vetch in here just sort of a wee cocktail mix. So what's exciting about this is this field itself is sort of your traditional rye grass clover mix where it's rather shallow rooted roots and then when you think about how tall these oats have grown up because they are sort of a meter ish high then you're seeing the exact same thing below the ground sort of mirroring it. So that's going to get a lot of carbon down the way and minerals coming back up the way in the form of animal feed. So we're gonna do a wee test dig see how see what's going on. So we've got sort of a block of oats here and a vetch, token vetch plant. So soil is actually really dry at the moment but the plants are quite healthy and they're green so they're can't be that stunted but you can see how you can see the roots. How deep the oats are getting down which we wouldn't actually get, well those oats are roots are obviously going a lot deeper but we wouldn't actually get that with our white clover and sort of your traditional rye grass mix. That's a aftermath from the forage rye that was bale grazed by the cows and we've drilled straight into it with the disc drill and here's our stubble turnip that was in with the oats. We've actually found when we've tried to drill oats in the past that a lot of Charlotte comes up through the crop as if it's like a natural companion crop. So that's where we got the idea of drilling brassicas in with the oats because in nature that's what we learned a couple years ago when we're trying to grow oats. Well there's all this brassica, our family of the brassicas coming up. And then we've got some vetch which is, where's it gone? Ta-da! Thanks Bob. So we've got vetch here so that's nitrogen fixing legume. So it seems to have worked really well in our soils. It grows naturally in the verges. So I think because it's grown in the verges then it should grow well in our climate and in our soils. So we might be able to see the nodes on the vetch to see nitrogen getting pumped back into the ground. Yeah so you can you can see there there's these little round nodes on the roots. So that's the nitrogen fixing point. So we are planning on using this for whole crop silage. So it should be quite a good good mix, good food for the yearlings in the in the wintertime. It's all totally organic. It's not had any fertilizer or any pesticides of any sort. And then the good thing about pasture cropping is, is if it's a disaster it doesn't matter. You've not killed off the grass so the grass can grow back and you've still got a crop for your animals to eat. So it's something we're trialing and hopefully we'll expand it. Hopefully we'll make it more successful and expand it out across the whole farm or or some of the better fields anyway.