Growing Edamame from Seed to Plate | Backyard Soybeans
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FL64-eN2r0U
Howto & Style
 G'day I'm Mark from Self Sufficient Me and I wanted to share with you my thoughts, experience, lessons learnt on growing edamame here in our own backyard garden. Let's get into it. I initially tried edamame or you could say edamame if you say it the way it's spelt at a Japanese restaurant just north of us up at the Sunshine Coast at Mooloola Bar. It was called Spice Bar, a really nice little joint. Edamame are basically immature soya beans that are either steamed or boiled in the shell. They were served as a side on that occasion but they are commonly served in a bowl on their own to eat and we really enjoyed the taste of them and found it pretty novel as you squeeze the shell and pop them into your mouth. They reminded me of boiled peanuts only edamame are much easier to shell. In fact you simply gently press the soft seed pod and the seeds inside pop out straight into your mouth if you want. I said at the time to Nina and the boys I wouldn't mind having a crack at growing some of these because they are really bloody nice and it was such a simple and healthy but tasty dish and this is what I really love doing. Going out finding new and interesting food and then bringing those ideas back home trying to grow them in the backyard and reproducing that you know on our own dinner plates. It's really satisfying and an enjoyable fascinating process for me. But then it wasn't until our trip to the USA last year when I was reminded about growing edamame when we purchased some for a quick healthy snack at LA airport as we were waiting in the departure lounge. So I got back home purchased some seed and was really keen to give them a go. I didn't do much research on growing them. I knew that they were obviously a legume native to East Asia and I had read that they grew well in hot climates. So I decided to grow some through summer here and to my delight they grew really well. I sowed the plant in rows close together about four inches apart on average in one of our raised beds and most seeds germinated. This was a nice surprise because I was worried that I might have sowed the seed a little too late into the growing season and even though they don't mind hot climates it may have been too hot still for good germination. Over the coming weeks I kept the plants well watered and noticed they started flowering quite young. Beautiful pea like flowers but very tiny. The plants grew to about a foot and a half high. They didn't need staking or support and were looking healthy with good pod development. Then the plant growth and pod development suddenly slowed down right at a time when I expected the pods to start swelling and be ready for harvest. What had happened was the soya plants contracted rust disease which I later found out was a common and mortal enemy of the soya bean plant. Initially I didn't worry about some brown blemishes or die back on a few leaves because that's normal in an organic garden like ours but it turns out that not acting early probably cost us a good harvest. By the time I realized the crop was failing it was too late to act because rust had taken over the plant so much that no amount of eco fungicide would have helped at all. However not all was lost because although many of the pods didn't develop fully some did and others were still fine to harvest smaller than usual. And being a legume the roots naturally fix nitrogen into the soil so these are a great crop to plant before you grow something else like we're coming into the cooler season now brassicas cauliflower cabbage lettuce all those types of crops will go good in this bed. So I think that's what I'll replace the soya beans with. So we were able to get several good feeds out of our endomami crop and to me that's not a failure. Next time I'll spray with a safe organic fungicide so that hopefully this won't happen again and I'll use it like a preventative tool to improve pod size and increase plant growth overall and have a happier plant. I have left several of the best plants grow on for seed collection so we can grow them again next season. This time I'll grow more because I'll have more seed and I will start them earlier in spring and see if they grow better. Maybe next year I can grow a ton of endomami. One last thing now I am a youtuber and I don't live under a rock so I'm well aware of the memes and the culture wars going on about eating soy and the derogatory terms like soy boy etc from eating too much soy. So please don't flood the comments section down below with all these terms thinking old farts here isn't going to understand what it's all about. Because if soy makes you skinny and weak then I'm obviously not eating enough of it. Thanks a lot for watching if you like this video give it a big thumbs up and also subscribe if you haven't already. Bye for now. Edamami. Why is that so hard for me to remember to say? Edamami. Edamami. Edamami. Edamami. Edamami. Edamami. Edamami. Edamami. Edamami. Can you sick?