Checking Trichome Stages - The Best Time to Harvest - RDWC Home Grow
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FNmEQ00AQAI
People & Blogs
 What's up everyone, welcome, welcome back. If you are new here, my name is Cory and this is Inside Hydro. We are getting super close to the end here. As you can see, the girls are ripening up quite nicely. We're packing on the weight. I'm doing my best to keep everything upright, but still things are heavy and leaning. I am not complaining. I like to see the weight being packed on. We have started flushing here two days ago, so I want to get a closer look at how close we are to finishing. This is really the only solid way to tell if your plants are ready to harvest, and that's by looking through a microscope. All the other methods, like the hairs turning orange, leave a lot of room for speculation, so I don't even bother gauging anything that way, and you shouldn't either. Since we have four strains and five different phenos here, all the plants do have to be checked individually, so that is something to keep in mind. Even if a plant is the same strain but different phenos, they could finish up differently, some being faster than others. So to get the best reading, we have to check each plant separately. Now in order to do that, I'm going to pluck a bud from each plant. I like to pull something from the middle canopy, which gives me an idea of the entire plant. By checking the middle, I know what's on top is probably a little further along, and what's below is probably a little further behind. Before we go any farther, I want to let you know I've opened up a complete grow shop on my website. You can find full grow kits, LEDs, and just about everything you need to grow. And it is all available right now. If you use code HYDRO at checkout, you can save 5% storewide. I will also be adding more products with time, so be sure to check that out. You can find the link below. Alright, so I have a bud cut from each plant. Personally, I like to use the microscope that plugs into my computer. I think it gives me a better picture, but you can also get a handheld jeweler's loop if you don't want to take any nugs off. This is just my preferred method. So trichomes have four main development stages. Clear, cloudy, amber, and mixed. Clear trichomes are the first to appear on the plant during its transition from veg state into the first week of flowering. Under magnification, the trichomes will appear either clear or opaque. During this stage, the plant is still forming THC and it is not ready for harvest. When a trichome begins to appear cloudy, the THC levels are beginning to reach their ideal potency and flavor. At this point, the plant is not fully matured. When the cloudy trichomes are covering the plant, THC levels are much higher than CBD levels, which means the psychoactive effects of the cannabis are more prevalent. Tricomes will begin turning amber in conjunction with milky trichomes. A plant that is covered primarily in amber trichomes will have higher levels of CBD, as much of the THC in the plant will have naturally converted to cannabinole CBN. Mixed trichomes are the sweet spot. This is when you have a certain ratio of cloudy trichomes to a certain ratio of amber trichomes. I believe the best time to harvest a plant is when 70% of the trichomes are cloudy and 30% are amber. Now, you could say the best time to harvest depends on if the strain is indica or if the strain is a sativa dominant and all that, but that's a luxury you can play with when you're growing the same strain over and over and trying to perfect it. But for us, since we grow new strains and phenols all the time, in a general sense, I'm looking for mixed trichomes with 70% cloudy and 30% amber. That is my sweet spot. At this point in time, we don't have enough amber trichomes for my liking. Usually it takes about two weeks for the trichomes to go from cloudy to amber. Since we already have some amber, I think we will be ready to harvest in about one week. I will continue to check the trichomes every few days to ensure we are ready before chopping. I set my grows up in a way that I can extend the flush if needed. Ideally, I want to flush for a week or so, but if the plants aren't ready, I will extend that flush until they are. So that is pretty much it for this one. I hope that helps. I will see you guys soon. Stay up. Stay high. Peace.