Is Your Soil Improving?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fPd5PJKdzl8
Education
 Hey you all, Farmer Jesse here. I often feel like soil health is one of those obscure notions that we feel can only be quantified through several soil tests over the course of several years. And sure, that's one approach, but soil health can be, arguably just is, a much more sensory experience than that. Yes, even scientifically speaking, there is research that says soil health is something you can indeed see or smell or feel or taste. And in today's video, I'm going to give you several things to monitor that have nothing to do with a soil test. Just simple things you can do in your own garden. So let's do this. What do labs do with all that soil anyway? It's like mountains of soil at these places. First things first, if you're not subscribed to this channel, make sure to hit the subscribe button. And if you are subscribed, you're awesome. And if you gain something from this video or any of our videos or any of our podcasts or anything else that we do, you can always support our work at patreon.com slash no-till growers. Or by picking up a copy of the Living Soil Handbook from no-till growers.com specifically, where the proceeds go to making you more content like this. All right. So the goal today is to give you a super basic and simple approach to evaluating your soil health throughout the year, but not just for kicks. Rather, so you have a better idea of how the soil is performing and or how it's improving. Soil improvement is something I'm personally thinking about a lot these days and working hard on. As we just moved to this new farm in 2020, the soil was very compacted and it's been a heavy lift. So monitoring our success is really important to me. Plus, I'm always trialing different no-till techniques. So for me, I want to see what is and is not working in my new context without having to get a soil test every few weeks. I can't afford it. It's very time consuming. That said, the methods described here in this video are not meant as a replacement for soil tests per se, especially the Haney test, which I'd rather like and we'll discuss more in a later video. But rather, this video is intended as a practical and dynamic way of evaluating your soil health in situ. That is to say, you can check your soil health while you're stupidly busy running around trying to get everything done that you need to get done in a day on a farm. Soil tests require time and money. Most of what I'm going to describe today do not. They're free. There are a couple tools I will discuss, but they are not requisite. A trowel and at least one of your five senses will get you pretty far. But if you want to level up your nerdiness, I will discuss a couple relatively affordable tools you can use towards the end of this video. First, let's give a quick definition of soil health. The NRCS, or Natural Resource Conservation Service, defines soil health as the continued capacity of soil to function as a vital living ecosystem that sustains plants and animals and humans. Though that definition does not include bugs and insects and microbes, I guess it's pretty good. About as good as any. But in terms of what soil health looks like physically, perhaps nothing embodies the idea of continued capacity of soil to function quite like the earthworm. Earthworms are both beneficial to the soil and indicative of soil health. They live off of the microbes that primarily live off of the soil organic matter, while also enriching the soil with nutrients, shredding organic matter, improving water holding capacity, as well as water movement. Worms are incredible. If your practices are both beneficial to soil microbes and create soil organic matter, earthworms will be happy to let you know about it. Moreover, earthworms do not survive well in dry soils, in soils that are overly compacted, or in soils that are tilled too much. So if you are digging around and not finding a lot of earthworms, the problem could simply be one of those issues. Not enough irrigation, not addressing your compaction well enough, or you're simply overly pulverizing the soil, killing the worms and making it harder for them, literally and figuratively, to get around as the soil particles compact back together after the tillage, after rain, etc. How many earthworms is the right amount? Though I know some people have opinions on this, anything I say here will be relatively arbitrary. So let's just say that as long as you are finding some earthworms in your native soil, down to about 8 inches, that's a pretty good sign that your soil practices are headed in the right direction. If you want to go so far as digging a hole and counting the earthworms every year to see if that number is increasing, go for it. But a few worms per shovelful is a good sign. I think it's genuinely a good idea to just go and look for earthworms. Sometimes you think your soil practices are better than they are. I learned this lesson a long time ago where I thought my soil practices in one spot were really great and I could find zero earthworms. So it's good to evaluate. Earthworms, of course, aren't the only macro sign of soil health. The presence of a diversity of bugs and insects, provided they are not the pestilent ones, is a really good solid sign of healthy soil. So that would be like mites and beetles and spiders and anything that is generally not classified as a pest. Herbivorous, oh I like that word, herbivorous. Herbivorous pests like cucumber beetles, for instance, are the trash collectors of the insect world and feed on weak plants that are not photosynthesizing at a high enough rate. Their presence suggests a need for more attention to soil health, which I discuss here in this video if you're interested in learning more, and of course in the Living Soil Handbook. A diversity of other visible bugs and insects, however, ants, beetles, etc. suggest that the soil is able to support them and support what they eat, which means you are at the very least headed in the right direction. In fact, on our farm, the hardest thing about production is simply getting all the good guys out of the salad mix. These ladybugs and spiders and the like love to hide in our lettuce, symbiotically defending it, but also getting in the lettuce. So that's fun. Seeing and hearing bugs is a really good thing. In fact, I think the best farms early in the morning and later in the evening should be loud. With insect and frog and toad and bird noises, I like that it's sometimes hard to shoot a video here because of the noise. That's a really good sign. And one note on birds, especially the flycatchers, if you are seeing a lot of birds, that is a really good sign of soil health. Why soil health? Well, for predator species, they need thousands and thousands of prey to survive. If they are choosing your farm, that means that your farm has enough bugs to support it. But also all the things that support those bugs, including microbes and flowers and vegetation and soil organic, right down to soil organic matter. Real quick, important shout out for bird nerds to download the Merlin app from Cornell. I'll link it in the show notes, but you can just set it up and it will pick up the bird songs. It will hear them and list them so you can keep track of migrating birds, but also nude bird populations that take up residency in your area. It's super neat. So check that out. Hey, me again, a few days older, sweatier. So I was editing this video and I realized like I should probably, for accuracy sake, point out that you can probably have pretty good ecology without having great soil practices in your garden. You could have great hedgerows. You could have woods that surround your farm. You could have meadows, all that stuff and still like not do a great job with your soil practices within your garden. But the better your soil practices within your garden, the more compliment it will pay to your local ecology. That's probably the better point. Just wanted to temper my enthusiasm and of course be a little bit more accurate. Merlin app is still awesome. Yep. All right. So moving on, let's talk soil physically. Some soils are naturally just darker depending on what their base material is. But generally speaking, healthier soil is visually going to look darker. Carbon is a dark element. And that means that if you're increasingly adding carbon to the soil, which you do when you have good soil practices, the soil should increasingly look dark. And that darkness should become increasingly visible further and further down into the soil profile over the years. Increasing soil carbon around the roots is easy enough as long as you are following living soil practices. Increasing soil one or even two feet down takes a lot of work and time, but that should be the goal. Soil tests come in handy here because there's no easy way to monitor your soil if your soil is getting darker year to year on your own without some sort of data. However, especially in highly compacted areas, that shift towards darker soil should be more and more clear over time. I mean, clear as in visible. Clear soil is probably not the best thing. Especially if you have a good soil probe that, you know, taking pictures of that is a great way to see the gradient changes and the darkness is, and that the darkness is getting deeper and deeper into the soil over the years. I have a few spots that we've been working on here on this farm and we can see the change just sort of happening. It's not overnight and it's not over a year, but it's visible and it will slowly increase if you're doing things right. Poor clay soil can be gray or even greenish. So the less of that that you find, the better, and it will slowly loosen and darken as carbon life forms and, well, death forms, definitely a thing, add up. Now, clay soils will take a different route than, say, sandy soils, but the end goal, the end result will roughly be the same. The darker, the better. Sandy soils will always likely feel a little loose and gritty, and clay soils will almost always, even when at peak health, feel a little bit sticky. That's okay. You're not trying to fully supplant the rock particles. Those will always be there to some extent. You're trying to get carbon between and around them as much as possible. All right. Some other visual ways to monitor soil health. And I should note that if you have other non-soil test ways that you use to monitor and measure soil health, put them in the comment section. YouTube videos are just like snapshots of ideas. Snapshots that, well, move, but it's impossible to fit everything or even remember everything I want to say. So yeah, always feel free to lend a hand. I've got some great commenters as well. So also, if you're watching this, make sure to read through those comments for more ideas. Anyway, another way to see the health and development of your soil is by the change in texture and structure. Humans can pulverize and create a sort of tilth, obviously, with tillers and spaders and such, but we cannot physically do anything that creates soil aggregates. Wait, have we tried singing to the soil? Oh, we've tried that. Okay. That doesn't work either. So we can't physically do anything that creates soil aggregates. Well, aggregation is all on the biology and how well we steward that biology. Soil aggregation occurs when, effectively, gummy secretions created by microbes and worms, et cetera, along with plant roots and fungal hyphae and so on, wrap soil particles and organic matter together. This action creates a fairly strong structure called soil aggregation or soil aggregates that are very porous and can both allow water to pass through easily in heavy rain events or to soak it up in drier times. And they are exceedingly important. You know, they're full of nutrients plus food and habitat for soil life. They keep soil in place. This is often demonstrated in what is called the slake test. Uh, I'm not going to tell you how to do a slake test as there are like a thousand video demos on it on YouTube, but a perhaps easier method, one you can do with a sieve and a bucket of water is to take a small sample, put it in a sieve and lightly just dip it into a bucket of water. As you improve your soil practices, that bucket of water should turn less and less brown with the soil particles falling off of your little chunk of soil. The goal being for the, essentially for the water to not turn all that brown. You want the soil particles to stick together and stay together. That is indicative of good soil aggregation, staying together and taking on water because that's what you want it to do around your plants. And it's indicative of good soil life because that's who's making it aggregate. It is frankly really hard to grow in soil that's washing or blowing away. So the soil aggregates are critical. In fact, aggregates are an enormous reason no-till is so important as well, because although microbes and such do a good job of wrapping these soil particles and organic matter together, the aggregates can be very easily torn apart by machinery. Anyway, you can use that quick test I described or the slake test I didn't describe, but is essentially the same thing, to monitor certain practices if you'd like. Notably, when I'm talking about soil, I'm not talking about the compost that you put on top of the soil. If you're doing like a no-dig or no deep compost mulch system, what I'm talking about is the physical native soil below any mulch that you have. So ideally right around or right below where your roots are growing. That's roughly four to eight inches down. I don't know what that is in Celsius. So long as it's not soaking wet or bone dry, the soil should lightly crumb apart in your fingers. It should not slick and it should not just fall through your fingers. It should crumble lightly when you pinch it. If you have good aggregation, you have created a soil environment ideal for microbial activity, and you should pat yourself on the back. Which I'm not entirely sure how to do it. Oh, there it is. Oh, that's nice. Back in 2007 ago, I visited a small-scale biodynamic champagne producer named Bertrand Guthreau. Shout out to Voet et Sorbet. Amazing wines. And one of the things we did on his farm was get down on our hands and knees in the vineyards to literally smell the soil. And then we smelled the soil of his conventional farming neighbors and compared the two. I remember I wasn't really a farmer at the time, so I remember not really knowing what I was looking for at first until I smelled the two soil samples together and was like, oh, Bertrand's soil just smells good. The aroma was just that ineffable thing that we can't quite put a finger on, but our brains give us the big thumbs up. And there's actually a reason for this, or a cause at least. Healthy soil contains innumerable microscopic organisms, and some, if not many, create volatile compounds that we can smell. So an abundance of soil life can be very fragrant. But more interestingly, some research suggests that organisms like Streptomyces might create these compounds, such as geosamin, or geosamin, or however you want to say it, to attract arthropods and springtails. And in the desert, camels, which is interesting. And the idea here, presumably being that the bacteria want to spread their spores so they hitch a ride on these larger organisms. The benefit for us will be healthier soil because those arthropods and springtails and microbes will add to more soil organic matter, which is better for our plants. Also, perhaps linked or coincidence, a lot of our antibiotics are derived from Streptomyces as well. So perhaps it's also a sign of soils that contain fewer human pathogens. To be clear, that last comment about pathogens is not based on any scientific research I've done or seen. That's just literally me making a random connection that could be totally far off, but perhaps opens the door for other explanations why we find that smell so attractive. As always, keep in mind that just because something makes sense does not mean it makes science. Anyway, a nice earthy smell tells us that our soil is at very least working. If the soil smells metallic or sour or like raw manure, that means it may be leaning more towards the anaerobic side. That is to say, the side that does not have enough access to oxygen and thus potentially favors pathogenic organisms. And you have some work to do decompacting it and improving the drainage if that's what you smell. One of the last signs I will talk about today is just success. Do the plants look healthy? Do the leaves of the fruit that they produce taste good? Are they riddled with pests and disease? Do I ask too many questions? We may never know. But what we do know is that plants cannot thrive in depleted, abused, compacted, or overly dry soils or poorly draining soils. Can you sort of trick the plants with chemical fertilizers? Sure, for a time. But the plants won't lie eventually. Plants are the windows into the soul of the soil. Whoa, we should trademark that. What do you mean cheeseball? Here's another cool one to look for. This is called a rhizosheath. You can kind of see these little dreadlocks on the bottom of the beet. That is a sign of bacteria aggregating soil particles and compost particles around the roots to help regulate oxygen so they can fix nitrogen. Sort of similar to how a pea creates the nodule that the rhizobium bacteria live in and they fix nitrogen. It's kind of the same thing, but just on a beet plant. Not just on beets though. It could be on pretty much any plant. Having kind of dirty roots like that is a good sign. There are a couple tools you could play with, like the refractometer and the microbiometer or microbiometer. I'm still a bit on the fence about how much these tools actually improve upon the soil health indicators that we can simply pick up with our own senses that I've described. But if you're a nerd, they are at least very fun to mess with. The refractometer measures the sugar content of leaves called BRICS, B-R-I-X. I can maybe do a more in-depth breakdown of using a refractometer at some point. But the idea here is that most pests, and it is really almost all of them without many exceptions, cannot eat plants whose structure and fruit have a high BRICS level. A high BRICS level means that your plant is photosynthesizing well. So you can crush a leaf or some fruit with a garlic press or your fingers or whatever and squeeze the juice onto this screen. Then hold the refractometer into the light and then that gives you the BRICS reading. Very generally speaking, 12 BRICS is considered the safe zone, but it will be different for different plants at different parts of the day. More on that another time if you all are interested. Another tool I do want to shout out though real quick is the microbiometer or microbiometer, which measures the bacteria and fungal ratio and a few other things of your soil or compost tea or whatever. It's a nifty tool, though I'm not entirely sure how accurate it is. But again, maybe that's another video I can explore a little bit more. And the founder just passed away in June. So shout out to Judy Fitzpatrick for working to put the power of soil management back into the hands of the growers. So thanks, Judy. And I'll put links to both tools in the show notes. I also spoke with Jeff Lowenfels of the Teaming with Microbe series. Great books. About this tool if you were eager to hear a little bit more about how it works. Also a great episode of No-Till Flowers podcast from my buddy Jenny Love just went up recently with Tom Dykstra all about BRICS worth listening to. Anyway, I wanted to keep this one short and simple and helpful. So maybe I accomplished at least one of those things. Put your thoughts and ideas for how to measure and monitor your own soil health as you grow in the comment section. Like the video if you like the video. Subscribe to the channel if you're a nerd and want to be awesome or both. Support us at patreon.com slash no-till growers. Pick up a copy of the Living Soil Handbook directly from no-till growers.com. When you buy it from us, the proceeds go to making you more content like this. Thanks for watching. We'll see you later. Bye. Don't judge me. Starting in the meatball杯