Small #Aquaponic Indoor or Patio Mini Garden
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FQ2aQel4L0A
Education
 Hello I'm Chad Hudson with with Endless Food Systems. We manufacture aquaponic kits. That's the combination of plants and fish together and produces a mini ecosystem. Today I want to introduce to you the Eden which is our small indoor system. So the Eden has a fish tank down here and you can have any kind of fish in here you want. Goldfish or tilapia if you want to eat the fish. There's a pump that brings the water up and constantly overflows into the clay pebbles. So this is full of these clay pebbles and inside the clay pebbles you actually wind up with a bacteria growing in there. The bacteria takes the fish waste and converts it into a plant food. The plants then purify the water again so you never have to clean your fish tank. You never have to exchange the water and you certainly don't want to clean your pebbles because that's where your bacteria are living. Any aquaponic system is generally going to grow plants twice as fast as a standard garden. It's going to use 95% less water because you're not using any water. The only water you lose is to evaporation and you can plant five times as dense as a standard garden. That's because the roots are being nourished from the water and not the soil so the plants aren't having to fight each other for the nutrients. There's a few safety features that we've built into the Eden. One of them is adding these support legs here so that a child cannot fall in and drown. Now it's still wise you know to watch your children and make sure that they're safe around this thing but that's one of the safety features we tried to build in. Also the lip of this is very secure and I've got a measurement tool here. You can actually pull up to about 50 pounds on the edge of this and it won't tip over so a small child that comes around grabs hold of the lip should be safe. In addition we've got a screen that you can put around this to keep your cats or dogs or any other animals from getting in there and messing with the fish. Aquaponics is about the easiest way to grow vegetables that I know of. You don't have to water your plants you don't have to feed the plants because it's all self-regulating. You don't have to change out the water it's self-cleans because it comes through the pebbles and gets filtered there. All you really have to do on a regular basis is feed your fish and harvest your vegetables and your fish can even go for seven days without eating so if you need to take a vacation or a trip don't worry about it it'll be fine. I often get asked what can you grow in aquaponics? The answer to that is everything. This is cinnamon basil. These flowers are great you really don't need to let it flower. You can cook with this put the leaves right in your pizza or spaghetti whatever you're cooking. Tomatoes you can grow things that climb on the trellis. You can have cantaloupe and watermelon that come over the edge let them grow on the ground. So really just about anything will grow in these. I want to show you how to start a seed in these systems really pretty easy. We just take a cotton ball we saturate the cotton ball then we take a couple of seeds. This is a butter head lettuce. We're going to put the seeds right on the cotton ball and then we're going to put this just below the surface. In fact if you want to come and take a look here's a watermelon plant that I planted about four days ago and you can see it's sprouting right there and that's just a couple of seeds sitting on top of a cotton ball. I really like the added ambiance of the Eden to any room a living room or an entryway. These are available in several colors so you can use it as an accent piece. Of course the sound of the water flowing and releasing humidity into the air and the plants providing oxygen to a room. It's all very peaceful and soothing concept. The more you find out about genetically modified foods and pesticides the less you want to eat it. So that much more important to know where your food is coming from and what better way than to grow it yourself. If you're into juicing or the benefits of that this is a great way to grow all your own vegetables to juice with. It will save you a ton of money. Just a couple of things that we're growing here. These are jalapenos. You can grow any kind of jalapeno. This is Swiss chard. Got some strawberries down here. Now this celery took a celery stalk that my wife juiced the other day and I just took the stalk and buried it. And this is about six days of growth right here. It's growing about an inch a day or better. This is eggplant. Now eggplant's going to climb and so I would need a trellis behind this. Let this climb up it. There'll be eggplant. Probably just this one plant will be able to harvest oh every three or four days something off of it. You know Robert Kiyosaki defines a liability as something that takes money out of your pocket and an asset is something that puts money into your pocket and that's really the difference in an Eden versus a television or a lawnmower or something that's a doodad that takes money either out of your pocket or in five or ten years it's worth nothing. The thing about an Eden it's going to produce food for you. So it's going to take about one to two years to pay for itself but after that it's saving you money on a monthly basis because it's producing vegetables for you. So it is an asset in all truth. When you order an Eden you get everything you need. There's absolutely nothing that you have to make a trip to the store for. It comes with these clay pebbles and they last forever. It comes of course with the tanks and the stand and a magnetic drive pump and that pump is encapsulated. All the electronics are inside so there's no way it can short out on you. It also includes several heirloom seed packets to get you started growing. Detailed instructions tell you exactly how to get your seed started which I showed you a little bit already and all the detailed information you need to be successful with these aquaponic systems. Order your Eden today and become food independent.