Sunday Gardener: Planting Bulbs in the fall
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fqudGmKAagU
News & Politics
 Hey, it's Ava Marie and it's time for Sunday Gardener. I'm here at Valley View Farms and I'm here with Carrie Engel. Hello. Hi there. This is, we all need maybe a little pre-planting. I'm the type that maybe I do it last minute. But when you're planting bulbs, you really got to think about it ahead of time because these will bloom in the spring, yet we're planting them now in the fall. It is, and to me it's like, it's what gardeners are. We have more hope than anybody else and more dreams than anybody else because we take these little brown blobs and put them in the soil and expect these lovely, lovely gardens later on. I think it's fantastic. I love that. Yeah, well, it's exciting. I guess it's like delayed satisfaction because you're waiting for them. So what are all the varieties people can plant? Well, you'd certainly, daffodils and tulips are probably the number one and two largest ones. But these I've chosen because they're great for pollinators. The daffodils don't necessarily do that and the tulips really only some varieties do. So crocus are great because they're going to start blooming in February, March. So if bees are out, they have some food. They've got something to go in and work on. The galanthus or snowdrops, they're another nice early bloomer. And so is the Siberian squill. When you get to the tulips, you want to go to what they call the species tulips. So these tulips aren't going to be like the Darwin hybrids that grow like 15, 18 inches. These are going to stay kind of short and squatty. And to be honest, they're deer resistant, which is great. They still draw the bees, which is great. And they also come back better than other tulips do. They're more of a true perennial than some of the other ones. So I really like them. We don't always get cold enough for some of the regular tulips. Things like grape hyacinths. I love those. Yeah. As I was a kid, I would pick them all off. I wonder how many people's gardens I was ruining walking to school. I'm sorry. All the alliums, they draw things. That's something that blooms a little bit later. And then the Dutch iris, these are short little iris, unlike the German iris, the big tall bearded iris things. When I hear short, I'm thinking easier to grow and faster blooming maybe, or I don't know. I think a lot of that. And you can just, they're smaller bulbs. So instead of digging a single hole for each one, you can kind of dig a trench or just like a little bed and just drop all those in there. So you have some products here. How do we prep these? You know, if you have a lot of bulbs, this is called Soil Perfector. It has sort of shale-like little stones in it, so squirrels and chipmunks won't scratch through to get your bulbs. Mine ate mine last year. They did. Things like this. This is a deer and rabbit repellent. You can take your bulbs and dip them in there full on and plant them, and then the rodents won't get them, I guess I should call. Bulb planters. This is just dig it and go. The bulb planters, I like those a lot. Attach them to your drill and go on. But nice and easy. Now's a good time. Get started now, and you want to thank your future self in the screen. That's right. Love this. Very cool. Thanks for the tips. Thank you. I've got a Sunday gardener. And if you'd like to have your gardening questions answered, you can now email our Sunday gardener team. Just email plantquestions at WBALTV.com. We'll see you next time. Bye.