Quick Tip for Last Planting Dates of Hybrids
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FrME0xMvZfw
Science & Technology
 Hey everyone, Mike Krieghouser, Phil DeGromis here covering counties in Northwest and North Central Kansas. I wanted to show you a quick tip that I use when looking at last planting dates for hybrids as you run into planting delays, weather delays, anything like that, that could happen. So we're at pioneer.com and we're going to go to the tools and apps. Once we get there, we're going to click on the GDU calculator, drawing degree unit calculator. Once we get that going, select the location that you want to run. Also make sure you have this custom GDU layer toggled on. As you can see, it turns this red line on, which is just gives the number of the GDUs going across and then we're going to cross reference those with our 10 year average, which is this brown line. And you can look at 2018 to or last year where it crossed to find out what day we will get to black layers, what we're looking at here. So the 2760 is actually a 113 day hybrid we have in our lineup. That is the GDUs to black layer that is from planting. So what we're going to do is we're going to slide our green bar over to the date. It's always about a day behind. Today's the 8th, so we're going to use the 7th. And then we want to slide this and go, okay, we had some significant rains. We're probably going to be 10 days out from planting. So first, what we want to do is come here at the beginning. And it'll actually give us a forecast of from May 7th to May 17th, exactly how many GDUs that were forecasted to have. So right here, it's saying about 70. So the next thing we want to do is come up here and actually add 70 to this number. So we'll change that to 2830. And then you can see our line shifts a little bit. So then we come across here and where this line intersects, we can click on it and look at our total GDUs. So basically, if we plant on May 17th, we have an expected black layer date on the 22nd here. So that is about 10 to 15 days ahead of kind of where our freeze date is for Colby. So we should be in pretty good shape. And if you look back at 2018, it crossed that almost not quite a month earlier, about 20 days, 25 days earlier. So hope this helps and you can use this for making some management decisions on last planting dates for hybrids. Thank you. That concludes this Pioneer Growing Point Agronomy Video Podcast. Visit our page on pioneer.com and follow us on Twitter and Facebook for more agronomy insights.