How to Grow Tomatoes - Tomato Farming | Tomato Cultivation - Complete Informations
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FSFBPtRO4HU
Education
 You may need to adapt the techniques to the variety of tomato chosen, the planting season and sowing method. The narrow paths will help with irrigation and drainage. Broadcast 80 grams of NPK fertilizer and 3 kilograms of organic fertilizer every 2 meters along the length of the bed. Prepare seedlings for a plant population of 26,600 plants per hectare. Place one seed per hole and don't sow too deep. The depth equals the size of two seeds. Cover lightly after sowing and water it gently. Place the trays in an improved nursery. Ensure good ventilation and maintain constant moisture. Drench seedlings with a starter solution after 10 days if needed. When seedlings are ready after 21 to 28 days, harden and transplant them. Hardening is done 5 to 7 days before transplanting. A good seedling has well-developed roots. Transplant the seedlings at a suitable height, not too deep and not too shallow. Space the plants 50 centimeters apart in one or two rows per bed, depending on the variety specifications. Water after transplanting. The trellis should be in place two weeks after transplanting. Use the available materials in your area. Adapt the style according to the area's conditions. The trellis will help hold the plant during the fruiting stage, stormy or windy days. This avoids the fruit from touching the ground, resulting in higher quality produce. Check our Net Trellis Technical Guide for more information. Apply fertilizers regularly in small quantities at the tip of the root. Follow the recommendations provided in our crop guides. Regularly observe the field. To prevent disease from spreading, always remove the infected parts or whole plant and weeds. If problems are observed, discuss with local experts to find the best solutions. Refer to our crop guides. Tomato is ready to harvest 60 to 70 days after transplanting, depending on the variety specification and market preference. Harvest fruits in the morning or late afternoon and handle carefully. Place the harvest in a shadowed, well-ventilated area. Ear's annual荒