vermicomposting documentary
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fShgR2nazAE
People & Blogs
 Thank you. I am Dr. Vee Mahariyapand, Assistant Professor of Zoology, Ayanada General Animal College, Sivagasi. I am very glad to talk about the preparation of vermicompost from the waste. So vermicompost is a natural process by which the earthworms can convert the organic waste into the organic manure, which in turn contains more, lot of NPK, nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium, that is a very essential element needed by the plants. So I am here to talk about how to prepare the vermicompost by using the native species of earthworms. So India has the largest potential to have more number of earthworms. So far 3600 species of earthworms are identified globally. So out of which nearly about 500 species are identified in India alone. So we are the, India is a country where we have a lot of number of earthworms. So out of which 500 species, there are number of species, more number of species are ready to convert the organic waste into organic manure, that is vermicompost. So we should have the clear idea about, the basic idea about the preparation of vermicompost from the organic waste. So in order to prepare the vermicompost, we need to have the organic waste, biodegradable waste from the, our kitchen or market waste or garbage or municipality waste or the agriculture waste, etc. So all the biodegradable waste are ready to convert into organic manure by action of the earthworm. That process, entire process we call it vermicompost. But we have to do that scientifically by preparing the vermicompost by using of the earthworms. So to start to initiate the vermicomposting process, we need to collect all the organic waste from the various sources and we have to put it in the container, we call that vermicompost pin, where we have to do that pre-digestion process. So pre-digestion is nothing but a, without adding of any materials, that is only vermicompost, we have to compost the waste alone with the water. So then naturally the microbes do that composting, that we call that microbial composting. So after once the pre-digestion is over, we have to get ready for the vermicomposting process. So to initiate the vermicomposting process, we need to add the dried cowdung in such a manner that to have a layer on the waste. So after putting the cowdung on the waste, we go to sprinkle the water. And after the water is, the waste is wet, then we need to introduce the earthworms which is suitable for the vermicomposting. The ebichig earthworms are the more suitable for the vermicomposting process. What is the ebichig earthworms? The ebichig earthworms are, live on the surface, surface of the soil. So which are more suitable species to convert the organic waste into the waste material. That such species we go to select, namely some earthworms, ebichig earthworm species are, the icenia foeteta, urelyse egenii, lamitomaruti, perionics excavatus. These are the some species which are readily using species. So those species we go to, at least any one of the species we go to introduce on the layer, let's say earthworm top layer. Then after putting the earthworm into the container, we need to wait for some 30 to 45 days. So that is a conversion period. So through, during that period the earthworms will eat on the organic materials and they lay or excrete their excreta. That excreta contains really rich of microbial load, natural microbial load and NPK activities. So that after the 15 days, 15 sorry, after the 45 days, that once the process is completed, then the compost is ready to harvest. So while harvesting process, we need to have a layer from the bin and we can sieve or otherwise we can directly, we can put it into the plants to have the nutrients. So after putting the vermicompost into the plants, so we need to add some water so that really the plants will take up, intake of all the nutrients so that we will get the good result of that, in the farm of fruits and the yield. Thank you.