German farmers share tips on increasing agricultural productivity
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fsT_-UZ6X_g
News & Politics
 One of the big challenges that many Ugandan farmers face is the sale of fake seeds, pesticides and other agricultural materials on the market. Joseph Mare is a farmer in Gaza, Wakiso district. He was once a victim of fake seeds which turned out to be a disaster. When I bought the Chinese cabbage, it was actually even on the park you would see Chinese cabbage. When I planted the two acres, what I got at the time of harvest, it was something similar to Chinese cabbage which is just a long type. No one could buy that on the market. But Mare didn't lose hope, he chose to change his farming methods after learning the hard way. The wrong side comes in when you find those dubious guys on the market, the traders. For them they are not really concerned about the farmers themselves, they are looking at making a profit. He urges for the farmers to be extra careful when buying agriculture products. If you find these guys really selling you counterfeits, find a way to, you know, get it done with it. The 29-year-old farmer was among a selected few who were given a real opportunity of meeting a delegation of German farmers. There is a contact from our academy to Uganda and other African countries and they work together. The group urged the government to create an independent department to specifically legislate all agriculture products in order to promote quality. The whole seed and crop protection market is controlled very strong on the one hand side but also very safe on the other hand side for the farmer by the government. So there is only a very small amount of seeds and pesticides that is allowed by the government or even by the European Union. They also called on the government to organize agriculture trips to countries that have excelled in farming in order to teach and inspire Ugandan farmers. The size of farms are different. In Germany we have 2% of the people in Germany have to do something with the agricultural sector. We have to train with the young farmers here in Uganda to exchange ideas and also to have exchange visits also in Europe for the Ugandan all East African farmers to learn also from the other side. The group will proceed to other districts like Massaka and Imbarala.