This Organic Pest Control Remedy Is A SCAM! 3 Natural Insecticides That WORK And One That DOESN'T!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FTpCxlI7nu0
People & Blogs
 What's going on gardeners? It's Saturday, June 18th, and it is a hot, humid summer day here on the southeastern coast of North Carolina. Today, we are going to put to the test four different natural and organic insecticides and remedies that organic gardeners love talking about and promoting for natural pest control in your garden. But, do they actually work? Are they legitimate? Or are they junk? Well, let's find out together. If you're new to the channel, please consider subscribing and hitting the bell to receive new video notifications. And check out our Amazon storefront and spread shop in the video description for a list of the gardening products I use and awesome custom designed apparel and other gear. Your support is greatly appreciated. After searching around my yard for some of the most common pests that I get in my garden, I was able to find three of my most annoying pests. Japanese beetles, some kind of orange spotted looking bug that just loves my kale plants when they start to flower. And my arch nemesis, the leaf-footed bug. So, I was able to capture them in both of these jars. So, each of them has a similar sample size of bugs in them. So, I'll be able to test different types of pesticides out on them, as well as natural remedies, and see what really works. And I wanted to make sure that I have a diversity of different insects because some insects are stronger and weaker than others. So, some remedies may work on the weaker insects, but not the stronger insects. You'll also notice that I drilled holes in the lids of both pickle jars because I want to make sure that none of the bugs suffocate. I'm trying to keep them comfortable. So, I picked a really nice shady spot in my sunroom, and I picked a cooler day. I have all of the windows open, so it's actually quite comfortable in here for June. I don't want them to succumb due to heat stress. I want to make sure that we give each of these remedies and pesticides a fair comparison. The first pest control method that I will put to the test is the dish soap spray method. I can't tell you how many times over the years people have said to me in the comments, why are you using those pesticides? It doesn't, you're wasting your time, you're wasting your money, you don't need to use them. All you have to use is soap and water, and that will kill the pests instantly. So, to try that, I'm going to use this non-antibacterial dish soap, and in this spray bottle right here, I have filtered water that I took right out of my fridge filter, to be fair. So, I'm going to pour a little bit of this dish soap in there, probably about a teaspoon's worth, and now I'm going to shake it up really well, because I want to make sure that it gets really nice and sudsy. And hopefully that you can see right here, this is full of soap suds right here. This is all suds on the top. And to make absolute sure that we get nice soapy discharge from this spray bottle, I'm going to make sure to clear out what's in the hose. And I want you all to see what comes out of that is really nasty soap. So, that is as, oops, spilling it all over. That is as soapy as you get right there. So, we're going to try this. Now, I want you to see the time and date that I'm starting this experiment. It is June 18th at 3.31 p.m. right now. So, the first thing I need to do is I need to jostle around this dill pickle jar, because I need to confuse and disorient the pests so they don't fly away. Now, I'm going to shake up the soapy water, and I'm going to try my best to spray them all down. Now, as you can clearly see, all of the bugs have been coated in the dish soap. It's very sudsy in there. So, I'm actually going to try and tilt this. And I want this just so you can see a little bit better. Now, we're going to time it. Again, it is 3.33 now on June 18th, and I want to be able to see how long it takes to kill them, if at all. I cannot believe what I'm seeing right now. I didn't even get a chance to turn the camera off, and the pests are already dead. Look what time it is. It's 3.34. It's been not even a minute. This literally instantly killed them. They're all dead. It killed the Japanese beetles. It killed the leaf-footed bugs and whatever that funky orange, the orange-spotted pest was. I am just absolutely stunned right now. There are no signs of life to anything in there. Wow. I'm so stunned by what I just saw that I need to take the spray bottle outside and see what will happen if I just try a quick contact kill. Because it could just be that maybe they were sitting in the soap. Let's see what happens to that leaf-footed bug right there that you just watched me directly spray with that soapy water. Look, there's another one there. Two of them. Nothing yet. It's been a minute and 20 seconds. One minute and 40 seconds. Wow. I think that guy is just about dead. One minute and 52 seconds. One minute and 54 seconds. This one's also barely hanging on. I honestly can't believe that dish soap is this effective. In two minutes and 23 seconds, this guy is pretty much dead as a doornail. The second remedy that we're going to put to the test for pest control is one that every organic gardener seems to talk about, and that is neem oil. Now, neem oil is different from neem extract that they sell in lawn and garden stores, which is largely a scam. The thing that makes the neem oil so toxic to insects is azadiractin, which you only find in the pure cold-pressed neem oil itself, not the extract. So that is exactly what we've purchased right here. We have organic cold-pressed neem oil. Now, just like the last experiment, we have the spray bottle that I just meticulously cleaned out, which had the soapy water in it, but I cleaned that out and I also made to spray out the trigger so there was no residual soap. Now, a lot of recipes say that you should emulsify the neem oil in soap because the soap will help bind it to the water. Obviously, we are not going to do that now that I saw how incredibly toxic regular dish soap is, so that would ruin the integrity of the experiment. We're just going to place the neem oil directly into this water bottle, and I'm going to drop one dropper full into this 20-ounce bottle of water. And I'll give a little bit more for good measure just because I really want to be generous with this experiment because I've never really cared for neem oil, and I want to see if I can put myself to the test and prove myself wrong. Now, we are going to begin the experiment, same as last time. It's 3.49 p.m., so you can really see what kind of time frame we're talking about. And we really want to keep shaking this because, obviously, oil and water won't mix. Now, we're going to spray it with this neem oil mixture. You can see how brown that water in the back is because that's how much neem oil I put in there. And it's already been over two minutes, so already this is far less effective than the soapy water. As you can see, everything is still alive in there and crawling around. The third product that we'll be trying out for insect control is my broad-spectrum insecticide of choice, and that is natural pyrethrin extract. Now, pyrethrin is extracted from the chrysanthemum flower, and it is extremely toxic to insects. It is a contact killer. Once it touches the insect, it disrupts their nervous system, causing death in minutes. And it's the most broad-spectrum natural insecticide that I'm aware of. One of the downsides of this insecticide is because it's so toxic to all insects, it will kill pollinators and very quickly. However, there is a responsible way that you can use this for broad-spectrum garden protection. What you want to do is you want to wait until the sun sets and all of the bees leave the area because bees are diurnal. They go to sleep at night. So once it gets pretty dark out and it's dusk, the bees are generally gone. You can go out and you can spray your garden. That will generally kill only the bad pests because the good ones are usually gone by then. And because it is a natural insecticide, it has a very short half-life. It breaks down very quickly when exposed to oxygen and sunlight. So it dissipates quickly overnight. It oxidizes rapidly. So by the time the sun comes back up, the pyrethrin is generally inert and you don't have to worry about the pollinators. So once again, I cleaned out my spray bottle and I filled it with 20 ounces of filtered water from my refrigerator filter. So we're going to shake up the pyrethrin and we're going to fill up a one teaspoon measuring spoon. And we're going to pour that in. And then make sure that we fill up the nozzle by clearing it out. Now on the pickle jar on the left, that's the one I sprayed with neem oil. You'll see everything is still alive and walking around in there. It's 412. So no effect with the neem oil thus far. However, in that time, I filled up my dill pickle jar yet again with new pests in order to try out the pyrethrin and test its effectiveness. Here I will spray everything in here. And that sprayed everything with the pyrethrin. And once again, it is 412 p.m. So we will see just how effective the pyrethrin is. And here we are one minute later. It is 413. And if you're looking here, you'll see everything is already dead except for that one Japanese beetle that certainly will be dead soon. It's not doing too well at all. Pyrethrin is extremely, extremely powerful. It's already killed all those leaf-footed bugs up on the top. Those other two pests are still swimming around in it on the bottom. It is now 432 p.m. And everything is finally dead from the pyrethrin. The Japanese beetles and the leaf-footed bugs were killed all within two minutes. But that yellow-spotted bug, that thing took a long time to die. It probably took a solid 15 minutes or so for the pyrethrin to kill it. So whatever they are, they're very tough. So surprisingly, the soap suds were something like 10 times more effective at killing that pest. You'll also notice that in the neem oil jar, everything is still alive and kicking in there. Nothing's dead in there at all. They're just having a ball. And the fourth method of pest control that we're going to try is spinoset concentrate. Now, spinoset is a natural bacteria. It is completely organic and natural. And you can broad-spectrum spray all of your crops with it. And it kills a certain amount of the bugs once they ingest it. So it kills a whole bunch of different things right there. So we're going to give it the old college try. Now, it is 439 p.m. right here, as you can see. And I was able to go out and collect yet another sample size of insects. And I found another Japanese beetle, several more leaf-footed bugs, some squash bugs, and one of those orange pests as well that's crawling along the side. And I've been making this whole video over the course of about an hour while testing all of these different methods. This should terrify you how quickly I am able to go outside and recollect a whole jar full of so many different bugs. Hopefully, now you understand how horribly buggy and insect-ridden my climate is here on the southeastern coast of North Carolina. It is no joke. And we're going to pour one tablespoon of spinoset into this 20 ounces of water. And we are going to shake it up. And we're going to clear the nozzle to make sure that we get good spray. And just like so many times before, we're going to spray everything in here. And as a point of reference, it is 444 p.m. right now. So hopefully, you can see just how well or not well this pesticide is doing. And I am not quite sure what to expect from spinoset because I don't think it's an effective contact killer. It's more of an ingestion killer. So this may take a little while longer in order to see what the results are. And, of course, back here in our neem oil, nothing really going on in there. Everything is still alive. And just to prove to you that I am learning right alongside of you, it's 446 p.m., so it's been a whopping two minutes. And here is the spinoset. Everything is dead except for the Japanese beetle. So stunning to me. Where the Japanese beetle was killed almost instantly with the pyrethrin and that orange and black spotted bug in there took about 15 minutes to die. This time, everything else was killed instantly with the spinoset, but the Japanese beetle is still alive. So we'll see how long that one takes to succumb to the toxin. Okay, now it is 453 and everything that is inside here that was sprayed with the spinoset is dead, including the Japanese beetle. So, much to my surprise, the spinoset killed even faster than the pyrethrin. Really shocked by that. And, of course, the biggest disappointment is this neem oil. It hasn't done anything so far. You know what? I'm going to make it really tough on these bugs in here. And I'm just going to take a dropper full, and I'm going to make sure everything is floating around the bottom there. And I'm just going to put drops right on them. Yeah. Drops of this neem oil right on them. So no one can say that I didn't give this the fairest shake possible. I'm going to be honest with you. I've always hated neem oil because the smell is just horrendous. I can't stand the way it smells. So everything in there is now soaking in pure cold-pressed neem oil. So if this doesn't do anything, I don't know what will. All right. It is 458. And finally, they died. But that's only because I effectively smothered them with that neem oil. So as far as I'm concerned, that's really just the effect of a smothering oil. You probably could have had the exact same effect with something like vegetable oil. You could have just put that all over your pest, and that would essentially kill them outright. So I'm not giving the neem extract or the neem oil itself any credit from that. It's just the oil property itself. So if you use it as a smothering oil, it will work. But it's definitely not a contact killer used as a concentrate inside of water-based sprays. I have to admit, I am really happy that I went through with this experiment because the results shock even me. I haven't compared these things side by side before, and I'm really surprised by what I learned. The best contact killer by far was surprisingly the dish soap. That dish soap was nothing but the generic brand of dish soap that I bought at Aldi. It was a fantastic contact killer. It killed everything within a minute or two from the point that the soap suds touched the bodies of the insects. Radically impressive. I give it an A plus as a contact killer. As for the spinoset and pyrethrin, I give them both an A. They surprisingly did not kill as quickly as the dish soap, and some pests were clearly more vulnerable to one than the other. However, they did kill everything dead within 10 to 15 minutes. So they are an extremely effective contact killer for all-purpose pests. They're very broad spectrum. As for the neem oil, I did not find the neem oil effective at all as anything more than a simple smothering oil. Therefore, I give it an F. Neem oil is extremely expensive. It was almost $10 for that little tiny bottle. I can go and get a two-quart jug of Crisco for like four bucks at the grocery store and have the exact same effect. It's just a smothering oil. It doesn't seem to have any insecticide properties in and of itself, and it absolutely stinks. It makes your garden and your house reek. So I would advise that people avoid it. It's really nothing more than a smothering oil based on the test that I just gave. Yes, I could have sprayed things and maybe waited 12 hours to see what would happen. Maybe there would eventually be insect death. But why would I do that when the other things are so much more effective? It makes no sense. I consider it to be mostly useless. Now, that being said, while the dish soap was the most effective contact killer out of all of the remedies and insecticides that I used, you can't simply go around with a two-gallon sprayer and broad-spectrum blast your crops with soapy water. And that's because that soap is not good for your soil. It's not good for your plants. It's really only a contact killer. So if you need to mass spray your garden because you're having a caterpillar outbreak or some other kind of pest outbreak, you have to use the spinoset or the pyrethrin because they are safe to spray on the crops. They will not harm your soil. They will not harm the plants themselves. So by all means, if you have to use a broad-spectrum treatment and spray your entire garden for mass insect control, those are the way to go. If you need to spot treat, you can use the soapy water. I recommend not wasting your money on the neem oil at all. So those are the results of the experiment that I just ran, and I sure hope you found it helpful. If you did find it helpful, please make sure to hit that like button, subscribe to the channel, and ring that notification bell so you're notified when we release more videos like these. If you're curious about any of the insecticide products that I use in this video or any of the things that I use in my garden in general, they are all linked down below in my Amazon storefront link in the video description. And while you're there, check out my Spreadshop link for custom merch if you want to support the channel. Thank you all so much for watching, and I hope to see all of you again on the next video. I have no idea what Dale is dreaming about, but he must be in a field running somewhere. He's been running and kicking for the past, I don't know, 20, 30 seconds? Sitting here trying to watch one-bite pizza reviews, and I can't even, it's like I can't even focus with all this running going on. Oh, there he goes again. There goes that leg. We have an interesting character on our hands with this Dale, I tell you. All right.