Unknown Title
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FurAOY9Z0Ko
Unknown Category
 Hello everyone and welcome to the Growing Lentils in 2019 webinar. My name is Prue Cook, I work with the Birch of Cropping Group and I coordinate the GRDC funded Southern Pulse Extension project. This project is delivered by a consortium of researchers, agronomists, farming systems groups, growers and pulse experts to increase the knowledge of growers and advisors on sustainable pulse production, improving the Southern region's capacity to maximise future growth and profitability opportunities. The purpose of today's webinar is to give new and existing lentil growers a snappy overview of what to consider this season to best set you up for success. Now before we start the presentation, just a couple of quick housekeeping items in relation to using the webinar software. I've muted everyone's microphones, so please keep yourself on mute so that there's no background noise that might distract the presenters. We will have a question and answer session at the end of today's session, but please feel free to submit questions at any time. You can do this by clicking on, you should see a speech bubble icon. It should be at the bottom of your screen, but it might look different depending on the device that you're accessing this webinar on today. If you hit that, a text box will appear and you'll be able to type in a question. From there you can either send that through to myself if you want it to be anonymous, or you can send it to everyone and it can be answered publicly. If you have any technical issues or if you'd like to share this, then the recordings will be made available on the GRDC website next week. But you can also flick me an email, or give me a call. My contact details will be at the end of the webinar. and we can get you a copy of the recording a little bit earlier if you would like. Now just to quickly help our presenters, I've got two quick questions that I'd like to ask you to get a gauge on who's joining us today. Now hopefully you should see popping up on your screen some questions that you should be able to click and answer. If you can't see them, you get to take a little break for now. But it's just two questions asking your experience with lentil growing and where you're dialing in from today. So I'll just give you a quick moment to have a look at that and answer those questions. We've got some agronomists joining us today. We've got some from the lower EP, York and Mid-North. We've got a few from the miscellaneous category. We've got some high rainfall zone growers from Southern Vic or SA. A few more agronomists. And a couple of people who either can't see the question or aren't wanting to participate. I'll give you a few more moments. And then what we'll do, I'll just share the screen and we can start straight into our presentation for today. Okay. Okay, now I'm going to introduce you all for our first presentation is Dr. Jason Brand who is with Agriculture Victoria and he's based in Horsham. Jason heads up the GRDC Southern Pulse Agronomy program and has over 20 years experience in the Pulse industry. Over to you Jason. I'll just turn your microphone on and Jason will provide us all with an Agronomy update. Are you there Jason? Just having a little bit of trouble with Jason's audio right now. Are you there Jason? All right, what we might do is we might skip forward while we sort out Jason's audio issue. We might skip forward and go on to our next presenter who is... Unless Jason, unless you're there now. Okay. No? Okay. Jason, we'll try and sort out your audio and Navneet, we'll just make sure that we've got your audio. Are you there? Yeah, I'm there. Yes, you are there. Excellent. Just let me quickly progress through your slides and we will just revise the order ever so slightly and we'll come back to Jason a little bit later. All right. So Dr. Navneet Agarwal is... He joins us from Sardi today and his research centers on improving weed management in high-intensity break crop farming systems. And today he's going to give us an update on controlling ryegrass in lentils. Navneet, over to you. Thank you so much, Prue. Good morning, everyone. Today I am... It is my pleasure to... Navneet, can I just interrupt for a moment? You're very, very quiet. Can I ask you to speak very loudly and very close to your microphone, please? Okay. Yes. Good morning, everyone. Today it is my pleasure to share my research experiences with you regarding ryegrass resistance and its management in high break crop intensity rotations, including lentils. First of all, I would like to thank GRDC and Sardi for jointly funding this research work. Next slide, please. Next slide, please. My talk today will be focused on... Previous slide, please. Previous slide, please. Prove. Previous, previous... Previous slide, please. Yeah, yeah, thank you. Today my talk will be focused on where we are heading for controlling ryegrass in high break crop intensity rotations. And secondly, what are the potential options for controlling ryegrass in break crops? I will extend this information based on my results from the research trials on lentils. Next slide, please. Next slide, please. As we all know that there has been a significant increase in area under break crops, including canola and pulses in South Australia in the last one and a half decade, as is shown in this graph. This has resulted from improved agronomic practices, higher harvest efficiency, availability of new herbicide tolerant varieties like TT canola, clear field canola, and XT lentils, and higher pulse prices. Next slide, please. Next slide, please. double than what was five years ago in 2012. Next slide please. Next slide please. This change in cropping system has raised new industry challenges for us. Heavy reliance on Group A chemistry which includes clethodium in particular in bray crops has contributed to increased ryegrass resistance to these Group A herbicides. Consequently herbicides with different modes of actions which includes herbicides from Group D, J's and K's are used to manage dim resistant ryegrass in bray crops. Therefore there is a need for careful management of these alternate pre-emergent herbicides to minimize selection for resistant build-up to any single mode of action in high break crop intensity rotations. Next slide please. To have better understanding of resistance in ryegrass in high break crop rotations a focus paddock survey was initiated in 2019. In that survey a total of 45 paddocks were selected across different regions of South Australia and these selected paddocks had either either at least two imi tolerant bray crops such as PBA hurricane XT lentil or clear field canola in the last five years or the paddocks had two non-imi bray crops from conventional lentils, conventional canola, TT canola, field peas, chickpeas, faba beans or lupins in the last five years. This slide shows the results of herbicide resistance screening from these focus paddocks. Here blue bars represent confirmed resistance and green bars represent ryegrass populations with developing resistance. As this graph shows ryegrass bars found to be resistant to sulfonyl and ureas and dents in almost all the paddocks. A further high level of resistance to intervix and trifluralin was also recorded in ryegrass populations. But the key concern is that a total of 46 percent of ryegrass populations were confirmed resistant and another 21 population 21 percent populations were developing resistant to clathodem in these high bray crop intensity paddocks. Such resistance levels limits the effectiveness of bray crops as useful rotational tools in our systems. Next slide please. Further this graph shows that one quarter of the ryegrass populations were resistant to boxer gold and one third populations were found to have started developing resistance to another important herbicide secura in these systems. The only positive outcome was that all the ryegrass populations were sensitive to group D propizamide. Next slide please. So when I look back into the history of herbicide usage in those paddocks, the rank first paddock in resistance to group J and K herbicides had two times boxer gold and three times secura used in the last five years and the second rank paddock in resistance had three times boxer gold and one time secura used in last three years itself. So this is the scale of those group and J herbicides being used in those high intensity break crop systems which is really concerning. In the net shell, I would say that the concerns for ryegrass control have now not limited to group A and group B herbicides in break crops. Resistance development in ryegrass to boxer gold and secura is even more concerning for sustaining these pre-emergent commissaries in our high break crop intensity systems including lentils. Next slide please. Next please. Sorry. Now I would like to discuss results from research trials conducting during last two years for ryegrass management in lentils. Next slide please. Next slide please. In 2017, two research trials were conducted at Heart in Mid-North and Maitland in York Peninsula investigating potential new herbicide Ultro with active ingredient carbetamide and this herbicide is a adama product and belongs to new group E and is currently in development. So the results show that Ultro provided similar level of ryegrass control as achieved with propizamide, secura and boxer gold and further Ultro provided 98% reduction in ryegrass seed set over unweeded control at both the sides. Further, I would like to mention that in both the trials, I had PBA hurricane XT lentil variety at both the locations. Next slide please. Similarly, in 2018 at Heart, Ultro proved as effective as propizamide for controlling ryegrass in lentils. Next slide please. Next slide please. Yes, this is a very interesting slide. In the second research trial at Maitland in 2018, Ultro proved to be the best herbicide for ryegrass control followed by propizamide. However, boxer gold and Secura did not control ryegrass effectively and were not different to unweeded control for ryegrass seed set as shown in this graph. This trial site paddock was the second worst paddock for resistance to group J and K herbicides in my focus paddock survey as discussed earlier. So this illustrates that the magnitude of impact can result from the loss of these important herbicides boxer gold and Secura in lentils due to resistance build up in ryegrass. Next slide please. So at the end I would like to conclude that it is confirmed that resistance to in addition to resistance in dim mystery herbicides ryegrass has started developing resistance to group J and K herbicides in high break crop intensity systems and expected registration of Ultro in 2020 will make it an important tool along with group D propizamide for controlling ryegrass in break crop phase especially lentils. So we need to make sure that rotating more of actions which we use in high intensity break crop rotations we need to rotate those herbicides to delay the herbicide resistance build up and especially we need to use group D propizamide in break crop phase and save group J and K for serial crop phase. So at the end I would like to thank all the participants for listening to my presentation. Thank you so much. Thank you very much Navneet and my apologies for my poor driving at the beginning of your presentation there. I was a bit crazy in the control room with some audio issues and my phone and other bits and pieces. So thank you for putting up with that there. Now Jason we're going to try for you again. Can we hear you this time? Can you hear me this time? Yes we can Jason that's fantastic. Sorry about that and I've got no idea why it's part of the dump out so. Do you know what I'll take full responsibility for it and say it was my fault Jason. I wouldn't do that so it's all right. All right straight up. Oops what have I done? I've done the wrong thing. Okay. Straight up anyway. Okay we'll take a couple of steps back and just look at a bit of an overview of the season. The opening slide when we get there we're going to just show you a bit of an overview of some of the trial work that we were running up in the Mallee. So the trial site up at OEM last year. We'll go back to the opening slide because that's a nice one because it highlights... you got the one before that proof? Are we jumping too fast? Are you still with us? Yes you're coming back. Okay we'll start here. Okay we keep jumping. All right well anyway the first slide we're just talking about is we're doing some trials and there's a particular interest obviously as we move up into the Mallee to see how we can better produce lentils across sandy soils and the image on that original first slide was just looking at an overview of the site and then some trials we're running on sand hills where we're looking at a whole range of options from herbicides through to nutrition and even potentially amendments working with Michael Moody up there at OEM and that plot you can see in the foreground here is actually one of the new potential lines being tested and really highlights where lentils have gone to and that standability they have and that ability to grow in Mallee type conditions. Next slide please. So in review 2018 I probably can be summarised in a couple of words dry and frost for us certainly in Victoria but across a lot of southern Australia there were some good patches obviously but pretty much the summary here in Victoria was dry and frost so the photos on the left hand side there are actually from the Wimbra some high value ground down in the Wimbra and that is what our lentils look like and we'll reflect on the yields in just a moment and then over on the right hand side of the slide we're just highlighting some of the frost issues and I've got some chickpeas in the photo there but obviously the the frost damage seed of the lentils down the bottom there and you know this is from up at OEM and you know we were dealing with 80 90% frost damage in many of the trials one of the key things that came out of the frost work that was really really interesting in that photo there you can see two lines and on the left there you can see a line with that real yellowing you get from the vegetative frost damage similar to what we've seen in PBA hurricane many times over the last few years and there were some questions going around in industry is that related to the imi tolerance trait that particular transformation event that is being utilized to provide us with the imi tolerance well the two lines you've got there both have imi tolerance in them as you can see on the right hand side the line that we've got there is showing pretty much no vegetative damage from frost I'm not sure the actual impact of vegetative frost is actually huge on yield but certainly looks a lot better at least when your plants remain green after a frost event during the vegetative phase so but despite that yeah there was a huge amount of frost damage next slide please so just a quick snapshot of the season lower yields generally across the board for us so to give you an idea victorine yields uh odian and cario in that 0.1 0.2 up to 0.5 range and horshain 0.2 0.6 so nothing really exciting to speak of uh low lower prices obviously uh everyone knows what we sat there prices did jump up a bit uh through um december and january and so there were the occasional good catch on prices uh but certainly um the overall trend was on the lower end of lentil prices we were generally below the long-term average for prices uh low disease pressure throughout the industry um something we've always got to maintain and watch but generally low disease pressure but also growers are doing a great job in terms of managing at this point in time and obviously due to the frost events uh poorer grain quality although again um it's amazing how well things got cleaned up with sea cleaners and also in the harvesting operations so even if you see a sample like we've got there um which i think we estimated to be about 50% frost damage we were able to bring that back to about a five or ten percent frost damage just through um simple cleaning um equipment so so yeah um it was a really good effort by the industry to clean up what we have let's move on to the next slide so i just like to highlight this um and just to remind ourselves of um what the value of some of these crops are over the longer term and this is just based on our mallee site so it doesn't include the wimera and so the lentil numbers would be much higher again if we looked at um lentils in the wimera long term so it's just a reminder that obviously there's a huge variation from year to year based on price and yield and um so the figures you see here are based on uh the prices received in December January of the year the crops grown and based on the average yield of that site not not based on the highest yielding variety but on the average yield of that site in that particular year and curio is our low rainfall or medium low medium rainfall zone site and onions a bit lower than curio and so obviously highlighting the variation we've got over the years um and last year was the only negative year we've really had in terms of growth margin on lentils in that time period we've been up there so just a reminder of that if we just click onto the next uh click and if you look at the long term averages there so lentils and chickpeas stack up rather well in terms of the economics um because sometimes yeah we tend to just remember the last couple of years and uh or remember some of the issues that we might have had in just even just in last year and forget about the longer term story um and how well we've done out of these pulses in the longer term move on to the next one please so in terms of new varieties uh we have pva hallmark this will be a really good replacement for pva hurricane fits into that medium seed size category has the same tolerance to group b herbicides but with improved vigor and botrytis gray mold resistance so certainly has a good fit there and some improvements in terms of tolerance to soil types so may even provide additional benefits in some of the malle soil types where we run into boron and salt issues and overall higher yields so higher than hurricane less than jumbo 2 but certainly a great replacement in terms of the uh any tolerance coming through and um the photo down here sorry that's not meant to say pva jumbo 2 at the top there that's just an any herbicide applied across those two uh two plots and obviously you can see the damage there in jumbo 2 compared to hallmark in a season like last year um just highlighting the differences that we're going to have so let's move on to the next slide so varietal opportunities uh i just wanted to bring this one forward because this actually highlights hallmark as well so if you look towards the left hand side of the graph there this is some longer term malley granules across owen and curio for 2016 to 18 so it encompasses a wet year an incredible drought and something somewhere in between so uh quite a variation there and you can sort of see where hallmark sits out in terms of the percentage of the site main doing um really well compared to other varieties and also highlights the opportunities that there are with breeding lines coming through with that sipal 1604 coming out at the top of the chart there move the next slide please so moving up to 2019 considerations and obviously we're going to highlight disease uh because if it does rain we're going to get it again uh so if we start over on the right hand side if we try to spray mould obviously variety selection can come in pretty important there so you can get some quite big differences between the varieties jumbo two which has got uh full resistance to petritus grey mould as compared to a bolt but that doesn't mean the disease can't be controlled so there's some really good strategies out there now utilizing carbonism and other products uh to control petritus grey mould and happy to chat about that later on obviously ascochyta blight but again most of our varieties these days have um a reasonable level of ascochyta blight the key thing that we want to message out to industry there is to keep an eye on what's going on so have a look at the varieties out there and um if it is a resistant or a moderately resistant variety and you're seeing too much ascochyta blight in there make sure it's being reported back to uh the state body so here in victoria obviously uh with us in agriculture victoria and josh fanning and then in south australia through uh jenny davison and her team there at sardi so it's about watching what's happening with ascochyta blight um because we are seeing some changes obviously with the varieties out there and i just wanted to touch on uh we do occasionally see this barotemia in those high disease high disease years next slide please so herbicide damage uh in some regions uh this will be more relevant than others so if we've had a dry summer um particularly some of your carryovers from group i group b type chemistry particularly group b if you're not growing any tolerant um lentils like hallmark or hurricane uh group eyes uh certainly seen that many times um particularly in the mallee environments i remember going through some of those drought years where two and three years afterwards we were seeing uh group i residue damage in lentils so i know many people are well aware of these issues but it's worth all reminding ourselves and looking back in the paddock history uh you know and even asked in trial where we came unstuck last year in a paddock where um we've been told that group b's weren't a major issue um but then when all the records came out we found out that they were a bit more of a major issue and certainly a yield limiting factor for us even in the wimmera last year and then obviously group c damage particularly around the post-sowing pre-immersion or ibs applications uh it's an ongoing issue with lentils so it's all about sowing depth placement all those sort of issues uh at the moment obviously we don't have um significant levels of tolerance to group c chemistry next slide please the other thing i haven't touched on in terms of 2019 considerations obviously is price and just being aware of the price um janine might be able to comment on that in as part of her presentation uh coming up so like all pulses take selection and management are absolutely critical to growing successful lentils uh where possible growing them into a paddock where there is retained stubble they do benefit from uh retain residue and in particular standing residue uh improving harvest ability but also improving yields we've got data going back several years which indicate you know growing into stubble versus burnt stubble can potentially result in yields uh increased by 20 or more particularly in lentils and that's not including the harvest ability benefits you get from standing residues so paddock selection is critical knowing your background history in terms of herbicides uh and then your soil types understanding your soil types and essentially what varieties might fit into that so that leads naturally on into variety choice and what you're trying to achieve so obviously if uh group b or any chemistry has been in the background of that paddock it's probably going to be a good idea to stick to your um group b of tolerant lentils or your any tolerant lentils like your hallmarks and hurricanes and uh but obviously getting into some of the more high disease risk areas jumbo too uh fits strongly into that um and but then if you're confident in terms of controlling disease and it's a lower risk pba belt has a strong fit in some of the more mixed soil types um and ace has a fit in certain regions we certainly see some benefits on some of the acid soils so yeah there are um it's worthwhile thinking through variety choice very carefully um before you jump into growing lentils uh obviously starting out the season have your disease strategies in place before the season really important to make sure that those fungicides are locked in uh before we start the season you've got the product on hand because the last thing we want is to get canopy closure you're wanting to put out a spray control to try to spray mold and you can't get product uh because you know there's no supply in australia and we have run into those issues in the past so just keep that in mind obviously pre-emergent herbicides we've touched on previously seeding rates uh the longer term lesson there is that um with some of these newer varieties like your jumbo twos and that that are more bulky more vigorous we can get away with slightly lower seeding rates particularly on the wider row spacing so when we're out at 12 and 15 inch row spacings which a lot of growers actually are operating on in victoria now um dropping back to in in that 80 to 100 plants per square meter um certainly we haven't seen too many yield losses it's when you get below 80 plants that you start to see a bit more of a drop off in terms of um yields and uh inoculants and nutrition so look we know a lot of growers don't always inoculate but if we're going to grow lentils in a new area where we haven't grown them before on sandy soils or even starting to push on some of the more marginal acidic soils then these things are absolutely critical and nutrition goes alongside with that ultimately working alongside a good agronomist is essential for a lentil crop so i'd really encourage growers to be uh yeah getting in touch with their local agronomists and working closely with them and learning what works in their regions because it's very hard to sort of sit here and talk um broadly we can give you the real broad um ideas but um there are tweaks for each region and that's where the agronomists come in um and then i'm always open for a phone call i love learning about other parts in the industry so um that will be all for me thank you very much thank you very much appreciate it now we'll move on to our very last presenter for today and next we have janine saunet janine is the commercial manager at pbc near horsham and pbc specializes in the production of seed and grain processing and packaging through to marketing feed and grain both domestically and internationally janine i'll turn your microphone on also i think i'm experiencing a significant lag between between me hitting the next slide button and it appearing on the screen so just give me a couple of seconds for the next slide to pop up and hopefully uh that should all work are you there janine yes um is my mute off hello yes you're good to go good to go hello bruce okay we'll just flip there we go all right good morning everyone um just before i start i just might follow on a little bit from jason um having mentioned about the new hallmark xt lentil just a bit of a quick update on seed supply um there was we had significant seed crops across new south wales mallee wimera and in south australia as well but obviously it was a bit of a challenging year for seed production but overall we're with frost at the end um we're reasonably happy to have a good supply to suit um everybody's needs um but there was we're just managing a bit of juggle with uh a number of stores that do cover orders and just confirming final quantities so we thought we were sold out in january but then we were right in february and perhaps we're down to about uh five ten percent of supply left so if there's anyone who's still interested in um that particular variety there's potentially a little bit of seed left um they look may look to um do orders fairly soon um as we're working through the list and dispatching at the moment so i just thought i'd give you a quick update on that one um to the minute and um yeah so we'll move forward into um talking about uh where the market's at and just a bit of a background so i'll just touch a bit more on as jason's mentioned um our current situation in australia with our lentil production supply um if you look i put a much on the um slide there there's a graph of the last couple of decades of how the australian lentil area has grown um particularly in the last say five years with the introduction of the new pba lentil varieties which has um enabled the expansion into a new range of areas and high prices certainly drove the uptake of lentils um from the sort of 2014-15 to nearly to double the area um in 2017 with the high prices got everyone excited um we've certainly dropped back a bit this year um to 265 000 hectares but it's still the third largest area for australia so we've still got a significant area of growing to lentils an important crop in our um region um but certainly the production will be down um going to market this year um with generally low yields um so i'm not just sort of put perhaps an estimate of 1.2 tonne per hectare overall um looking at a bit over 300 000 tonne potentially um supply um there's sort of various guesses around but um that's sort of my rough idea and it's always a bit hard to know exactly what's on farm in terms of old season tons there's certainly a crop that people will store for good reason when the prices are low so um there's only guesstimates about what might be there but even if i mean it's probably immaterial until people sell it as to um how important that quantity is when they're prepared to sell it okay so next slide please pru so just looking ahead to i guess the world situation which certainly um it's strong into strong effects on pricing and demand um we've seen in i mean canada's our big competitor with red lentils um producing very large quantities and having a big impact on the market um and they've actually had fairly strong exports over their winter period because they've they've got from the previous few years they've certainly um stored a lot um had a lot of stockpile so um same sort of situation they've produced a lot people have their production's gone up as prices went up a few years ago and they've got a bit of surplus to move and they've certainly been actually moving a bit over their winter months and uh into the market the us has been being a bit slower australia certainly been a bit slower people not prepared to sell um and now the percentage of exports going out of lentils from australia has been a lower percentage than perhaps we would we've seen in in the past from the sort of october to january period um whether we're down at about um you know just a small percentage whether it's 20 percent or depending what the total volume is at the end whereas sometimes at this time of year we're anywhere between 30 40 plus percent of exports have happened so obviously people don't want to sell and that's fair enough so um a little um we'll move on to the next slide please prue okay so um without these are low prices at harvest um we didn't know where that was going to go but there was some upward movement um coming into january and um it was interesting just talking to growers that were you know finding out the prices we're at and when they're at 500 they're saying no i won't sell maybe wait till 600 i might sell but when they got to 600 growers said oh no i'll wait till it goes to 700 but never did so it dropped back down um just you know the market is what the market is it wasn't prepared to meet that those sort of prices and um so growers were happy to store for a while um in those in those periods we um saw that um the jumbo type was uh often sitting at a premium 20 40 or so um above the medium sized lentil just the variety that was selling and was required um and then again there was another print that the small lentils were at a discount to that down on that as well they were sort of maybe eighty hundred dollars off the jumbo type um in terms of what was um being offered at the time um over the past few months um so uh we certainly have a lot of products stored um some's moved uh the market's just very slow there's not really much happening um there is i guess anything that is happening whether we've where we've had had we have had frost events causing some you know high damage as jason mentioned in some areas of um you know maybe up to 30 percent effective with frosted um so very poor quality lentils and i guess they've been there's some currently selling for stock feed maybe around 420 mark uh has been up to 450 per tonne um but this is really it's not a typical situation that we will get these sort of prices for stock feed lentils often it's a bit lower in other years um because we've been underpinned by this higher stock feed market i mean really we've got cereals being sold for about 400 or so for stock feed as well so that's they're pretty pretty i guess it worked in fairly well um for those sort of quality lentils that aren't normally um going to export that they've been able to have a market to go to okay next slide please proof so just thinking about um you know if you're storing you've got new season lentils old season lentils sitting from previous year or years um just be thinking about um they're going to be perhaps in quality storage silo storage keep them in good condition um if there's some product in silo bags perhaps that's not much of a long-term option um whether they can keep the quality right or not i'm just going to think about those considerations um and when we're going if we're not sure when going to the market we never know don't have a crystal ball to say what the market's going to do and um think about when we do market it we've got the the lentils do slowly start to turn color um over time um which is just a visual indicator to the market that uh well what's how to what is the quality of these lentils going to be so visually you know your fresh season off the header it looks really um a nice clean bright uh lighter brown color um and after about six months they start they just start to turn a little bit sort of that six to 12 months um they come more in line with the product that's you know up to maybe two and a half years old that and when they start getting a bit over two and a half years old they really there's another sort of significant change in their color so it's just thinking about if you're marketing old and new season um not mixing them together and um perhaps marketing them as a separate parcel um because really it's about how the market will how they present the market in its appearance and at the end of the day the red lentils are milled and um it comes can come down to how uniform they split so if you've got new season old season you'll have different properties in terms of split split ability um occurring so that's why the market would like it separate um to go into the mills um and just dealing with off-grade lentils um just um jason indicated before you know there's potential for cleaning um up to potentially up to higher grades um depending how much frost you can get out if there was frosted quality in there um if it was 30 percent and only got to 10 might not make much of a difference into a market but if it got it up to five percent or under might make more of a difference in terms of finding a better market than a 10 off-grade um so just need to investigate for those sort of products whether there is cleaning options that will improve it significantly or not um and you know how where a market option might be or how long you might have to store it to make that make a higher quality grade okay next slide please fruit so in the global terms where the market's going to go it's on everyone's chatter it's talked about a lot what's happening in india what's going to happen i think it's months and months of chatter and speculation and um because it is a very important market um it is the second largest country in the world population wise and their key uh food item is pulses so including a large amount of lentils which are sort of so i put those pictures on the side um lentil dahls is a key food they eat every day and um but it's a it's a large population also produces a reasonable quantity themselves um but we over the years have sent um sent a lot of our product to that market and then so at the moment politics is getting in the way um some time ago they um that indian country had imported a lot of lentils and had huge stocks and um in the end they imposed some tariffs to reduce the quantities coming in and protect the local local farmers from a lot of imports coming in high quality imports um and so that sort of put up a bit of a barrier in terms of our price into those markets and continue our you know a bit of uncertainty in our exports to that country so it's all just on hot it seems like it's all just on hold until so this the government election which happens in late may and to the government the local farmer vote is very important so they don't want to upset the farmers before the election um um so there's almost be a bit of a hold this space until that happens and clears everyone's wanting that to happen and be done with and but who knows what happened how long it might take after the election for things to change but at the end of the day um the ball's got it the considerations will start coming to play that do they need to keep buyers to say well we're going to start needing to book some lentils and buy some but when because um price is king um their harvests will happen sort of sort of april may the area production is area is a little bit down there's speculation about their production is their drought effects or not or uh what are their supply stocks at so there's many different factors that are sort of all in the air at the moment um so it's a bit of a hold this space to where the market's going to go until um all these um things come to light but at the end of the day as i said the people still need to eat lentils and other pulses um but it's at what point the um buyers say well we're going to be running short of product or we need to buy money buy things in and uh uh whether the market will turn then time will tell uh so next slide please so just lastly i just thought i um uh just put up a 10-year just price lentil price trend it's just a bit of an idea um that as in all pulse um markets uh products that uh the dollars work in cycles and it's just how long the cycle takes and so this gives you an idea that we always say well what goes down must come up and then must go down again um and same with growers production when the prices were going up everyone produced increased area here and in canada the us um in response to high prices and then the next year they drop down again so production drops and the supply and demand cycle continues so um i guess at the moment i guess the closing comment would be well we've been we're at the down of the cycle so at some stage it will go up it's just a matter of time so thank you thank you everyone thank you very much janine that's fantastic all right guys i'll now move into the q a component of today so this is the opportunity if you would like you can type in a question so if you run your mouse over your screen hopefully you'll see a speech bubble icon pop up somewhere um if you hit that a chat box will appear and then you can type a message in to nabneet jason or janine um so i'll give you a few moments to run through that if you do have any questions please feel free to type them in we don't have any at this stage um but while you're thinking about questions to ask and getting them in if you're looking for further information on lentils then grdc grow notes are an incredibly comprehensive resource that you can access through the grdc website um also the grdc southern pulse extension project which this webinar is a part of has a number of activities occurring throughout 2019 which will continue to bring you the latest in pulse information one of our key activities is that we have a network of discussion groups across victoria and essay which is targeted at new pot new or newer pulse growers now those locations are on the screen if you're near one of these locations and you'd like to get involved click me an email my contact details will be at the end of the webinar and i can get you in touch with the group coordinator we'll also be having crop walks at southern pulse agronomy trial sites so that's the trials that jason was discussing earlier on and they'll be happening right across the region in late winter and earlier spring so keep an eye out for those activities and also this is the fourth webinar that we've run this week uh so one with the most technical difficulties so i apologize for that we have one to go which is chickpeas which will be happening at 12 o'clock victorian time today so that's 11 30 for people in sa um if you would like to access webinars for the recordings of the webinars that we've run previously so that's for faber beans vetch and field peas please let me know and we can get you in touch with those and please feel free to join in with the chickpea webinar which will be happening after this one but if you've liked today's event and you don't mind the webinar format please feel free to suggest other pulse topics that you might like covered in greater depth later on in the growing season and we might look at rolling some out throughout the year i haven't seen any questions come in at this stage and looking at the time we might wrap it up there but please if you have any other suggestions or requests for things that you'd like to learn about if you have any questions that you think of later please let me know and i can touch base with our experts today um but what we'll do is wrap it up there thank you very much to all our presenters uh phenomenal presentations today and thank you very much to all of you for participating i hope you all grow some magnificent lentils this season thank you very much thanks if you have our experience and please put more information on in the program Thank you and please thank you I'll wait yeah