Paddock Grazing Duration | Multi-Species Rotational Grazing With Red Devon Cattle and St Croix Sheep
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FxbXRwYsZ-g
Pets & Animals
 Good Monday morning to you, Jason here, Birchfield Family Farm, Oxford, Ohio. Hey, sweetie. Grass-fed Red Devon cattle, St. Croix sheep, too many chickens to count, layers, broilers. Dabble in a little bit of everything here on the farm. Everybody's hungry today, we gotta do some moves. I got a good word for you, though. This comes from Amos, chapter 9. The days are coming, declares the Lord, when the reaper will be overtaken by the plowman and the planter by the one treading grapes. New wine will drip from the mountains and flow from all the hills. I will bring back my exiled people Israel. They will rebuild the ruined cities and live in them. They will plant vineyards and drink their wine. They will make gardens and eat their fruit. I will plant Israel in their own land, never again to be uprooted from the land I have given them, says the Lord your God. Okay, we've got some hungry sheep in here. We have lots to do today. Several different moves to make. We're in the process of coming across the farm with these sheep, heading back out to our paddocks. Cattle move, sheep move. Lots to talk about, lots to do. Let's get into this. Okay, first up is a cattle move. Let's head down. We've got them in the woods still. And take a look at paddock one that we're going into. While we're on our way out there, I wanted to talk a little bit more about this drought that we're in, in the beginning stages here. Grazing and drought, just a tricky, tricky thing. But this chart, I believe this was originally out of Texas A&M. And it has to do with the percent of your leaf volume removed or grazed on the above ground plant versus the amount of root stoppage below ground. And just really, really interesting to look this over. You know, what this is telling us is we can pretty much take up to half of the above ground plant before we really start negatively impacting that below ground activity. I mean, look at this. As you go from 50 to 60 percent, I mean, look at that. Look at that jump. And then you go up from there. You know, what are some of the implications of this? Well, if you're overgrazing, obviously not a good thing. But if you're doing this in drought, specifically if you're set stock grazing in a drought, you're dead in the water. I mean, there's just you're done hanging up. So I think I think it was somebody on my last video maybe made a comment up more north Ohio. I think they were from and obviously experiencing the same conditions. And he had said being something about being very, very careful about what we're doing now. And I think that was spot on. You know, very, very mindful thinking through this. You know, OK, what taking our time and being wise and making good moves. And, you know, that's what we want to what we want to do here. But, you know, obviously I'm looking right now. I don't want to take any more than half. That's that's kind of the implications of that that chart and trying to be mindful of that. So with that said, we're here at cattle. So let's take a look at these guys and get them moved. I had mentioned last time we were down here, the fly, the fly pressure. And this is this is actually the first time I'm seeing them. And they we got to get them moved. They look like they need some some room and fill here. Anyway, came down here last night and we we mixed up. Just went very, very simple here. The flies are just horrendous and you can see he's got some back now. But just mixing up a very simple mixture of apple cider vinegar and some a few squirts of dish washing soap. Just dish soap. And you can see here, you know, when I spray that. I'm trying trying not to get it in the eyes, but that was that was very effective last evening. And I even I even I'm noticing today he does have some around his neck area, but I'm noticing that's that's definitely helped out a ton with the with the fly pressure. Very simple. We buy apple cider vinegar in bulk five gallon buckets through I think it's vinegar guys. You know, it just gives some temporary relief. You know, it's not going to it's not going to give you 30 days like some of the chemical fly sprays, but I'm not interested in that stuff. OK, taking a look at paddock one here. This is what we're coming on to. We've got quite a bit of growth up in there. You know, this is where it gets really tricky to me estimating forage, available forage, what you want to take, what you want to leave. You know, we've got to go off of dry matter. Typically, about three percent of cattle body weight is what they need in dry matter per day. You know, we can kind of back into this and figure out, you know, how long we should be here. You know, this is a quarter acre paddock. The tough thing is estimate. We need to estimate a height. And you can see I've got spots here where this is just nothing. You know, you've got down to the soil, but then you've got, you know, probably 14 to 16 inches up in there. You've got probably six, six to eight down in there. But then the wild card is the woods, right? This wooded section here is included and they're going to eat a lot of this honeysuckle and stuff like that. Three percent of their body weight right now would be about 168 pounds a day I need. So 168 pounds, let's just say, including the wooded stuff and everything, there's an average of 12 inches on the pasture, which might be a stretch. You know, you can get a grazing stick to more accurately measure this. I should probably pick one up or make one. But let's just say we had 12 inches, including the undergrowth consumption. One inch of pasture growth is equivalent on a normal setting, normal to pour. It's equivalent to about 100 pounds of dry matter per acre. 100 pounds per acre per inch of pasture growth. Obviously, that can vary. So, you know, looking at that, if we had an average of 12 inches, we have about 300 pounds of dry matter on this quarter acre. Now, we just went over our chart and, you know, obviously I'm not wanting to take more than half. And so, you know, figuring out our 168 pounds per day that we need, 300 pounds available, we're going to be taking about 56 percent. About 56 percent. Again, tons and tons of estimating here. I think, you know, erring on the side of moving them more quickly now would be wiser than trying to stretch. Obviously, in this drought, we want to conserve here as much as possible. But, you know, aiming to take 56 percent. Let's see how this goes here. You know, we can always skip them quicker. Now, you know, one of the questions is, well, could I put out hay if I needed to increase that? You know, I could. I could, but I know my cattle's behavior. And as long as there is any type of green material on the ground, if it's not yet a putting green, they will not touch that hay. And they'll take a second, third, fourth bite of this pasture for sure. And so, they'll overgraze, you know, even if I put hay out. So, it's not really, not really an option. A 12 inches estimating that could be a little bit off. But the really cool thing is we can flex. Yeah, because right in here, I mean, there's virtually nothing in the shade. I do have some honeysuckle that they'll pull down, but that's not a lot. So, yeah, I mean, let's roll with it. I think an improvement would be, you know, picking up a grazing stick so that we can measure more accurately. Again, the challenge in this paddock is you have such a varying degree of growth. You know, we had the chickens up in the corner towards the water up there, and that section is great. You know, 12, 14, 16 inches of growth. It's thick, whereas this stuff down in this area where they were not leaves quite a bit to be desired. Enough talking. You ready to move, big boy? Yeah, see? Look at his where I sprayed that vinegar, apple cider vinegar and dish soap. There's nothing. No flies. I think we put out a recipe a while back. It was pretty complex. Some essential oils, and, you know, I don't know. So, the more I get into this, the more benefit there is just keeping it simple. You guys ready? Let's go. Come on, Pat. Come on, Moose. There goes the big boy. Whew. Come on, Moose. Yeah, flies also are drawn to testosterone. So, your bulls are going to have more fly pressure than the cows. She's got some there. I need to spray her again. Yeah, it looks like they're going straight for the white clover here. Can't say I blame them. That looks tasty. Look at that. Look at that bull. Oh, he's into it. Just loving life. How is it, buddy? How's the salad bar? Yeah. What do you think, Daze? Yeah, do we have that spray bottle? I'm going to hit them again. I want to talk about one other issue here before we move on. You know, so many times on the farm, we have one issue. The farm can be a complex place, right? Let me just say that for starters. So many times, you know, we get an issue in one area, and then we, maybe it's just human nature. We kind of overcompensate and create other issues. I think that was the case here. You guys that have been following for a while know that almost a year ago, we dealt with our first and our only case of grass tetany. Lost a heifer. Heartbreaking. Really got some bad advice from a feed supplier. Told us just to put out kelp and Redmond salt. That was all we needed. The pasture would make up for differences. And sorry for repeating this information. I know some of you have heard it before. But that was, that was, that cost us the life of a heifer. That mineral ration. Simply because when the grass gets green, potassium levels go up. You've got this equation, potassium over magnesium plus calcium. When that ratio gets out of whack, you deal with something called, I believe it's hypomagnesemia, which is essentially a deficiency in magnesium in the cattle. And it can be, it can be lethal. And it was for us. And so you start researching, right? And get a hold of Fertrell. Talk to a rep. Okay, what, well, you know, they have a beef mineral that's higher in magnesium that we should be putting out. Our issue was, because we run multi-species, we needed a mineral that would be good for both sheep and cattle. And that was pretty challenging there. Talked through that with a Fertrell rep. It pretty much came up with, hey, you know, you really can't put out the beef mineral for the cattle if you've got sheep in there. Because there's a higher copper content in that beef mineral. So we settled on sheep neutral balancer for Fertrell sheep neutral balancer for a mineral. Eight percent magnesium or something. So that was, that was way more than what we needed. A couple issues. So this spring, if you remember in April, we kind of were seeing some heat stress. Seemed like, you know, we had mid-80s. And cattle were just panting and just, I mean, they, you know, and so notice that kind of going into mid-spring here. Just seems to be some heat stress. Start to look at them and really kind of, kind of zero in. And I noticed that the hair coats just seemed a little bit, seemed to take them a little longer to slick off this year. They just, they just weren't slicked off as early as they, they usually are. The cattle have a need for copper. And it's that copper that keeps that, allows them to slick off and lose that hair quickly in the spring. And that's what you want. And just, again, seeing that progress was pretty slow. Go back to our mineral program again. And the sheep neutral balancer has no copper or very, very little. Have plenty of mag, right, to the extent that we may even have been causing a little bit of unnecessary scouring here with that 8%. Really only need about three. So here we are. Here we are noticing the effects of a copper, what we think is a copper deficiency. Now, we had a forage test done a few years back. It was actually last year. And, you know, we did have some copper in the forage. I think it was 2% or below. But, you know, I'm just, so we're, I'm going to run. I've been running cattle and sheep separately here for now. That's one of the reasons why I'm keeping sheep separated. Another reason is we had a late, a ewe that lambed late. She's a first year. And so I've got that small ram running around. And I think, you know, using that electronet on the lambs, I like to do that when they're young. I tell you, it's, it's, there's always something. There's always something. So I think, you know, looking back, we saw that overcompensation with magnesium. Well, that started to hurt us on the copper front. So I have, I have, in our mineral ration here, I have started using Fertrells. And I'm not affiliated with Fertrell. It's just what our feed supplier carries, the brand. They have been good, though, to talk with, useful information. But we did switch over when the sheep are separated here. Won't do that forever. But while they are, we switched over to Fertrells Beef Nutribalancer. And I've, they are slicking off. Yeah, I'm pretty, pretty happy with how they're looking now. And, you know, it makes a big difference having that, having that coat on versus not. We saw some really pretty abnormally high temperatures here for spring. Not just that, but very low humidity. Were we 90, 93? And, you know, like 20, looked at the weather station, 23% humidity. The other day, I'm like, man, this is, this is like Arizona weather, right? We don't normally see humidity levels that low. So very, very dry. But the point is, you know, you get focused and dialed in on one thing and forget to kind of look at the entire picture. You know, having that mineral right, especially in a grass-fed program, it can be, it can be very important. And as always, you know, we're learning, learning as we go. So going forward, you know, I think we are okay when we see the green lush stuff. And what caught me last year was we saw that tetany in the fall. Typically, I'm looking out for it in the spring like crazy. But in the fall, we had, you know, a couple inches of rain over Labor Day last year. And that grass just, and, you know, those potassium levels shoot up. And then, you know, there's actually, we sent a forage sample in, and there's a ratio that they can quantify. And you can tell if you have tetany-prone pastures. The other interesting point, doing some reading, some research from the 1950s, Voisson, I believe it was, pointing out that areas that have been in tillage, that you'll see a higher incidence of grass tetany in areas that have been tilled. And so I, you know, see producers all the time talking about, you know, tilling and reseeding and all this. And that, man, I will not, I will not do that, not do that here. But interestingly enough, that area, that paddock where we had the tetany, that had been in row crop corn. So it had been tilled. You can still see the furrow marks out there. You know, I think we'll probably stick with that sheep NutriBalancer and continue to put that out as long as we run sheep and cattle together. But I do believe it's good for the sheep. And sheep do need some copper, right? They do need some, just not what the beef mineral mix has. So anyhow, that's our learning curve here. But so that's a long, kind of a long explanation for where we are with our mineral program here. On my way back to move sheep here, take a look at sheep. And I just can't help but stop and observe what we've got going on here with the cattle. Again, and I know this is going to seem like harping because I mentioned this so much, but I want to drive this point home. We ran the laying hens in this spot simply because it was close to this water. I had their tractor right out in here. Look at all this bushy grass right where she's at. And here they are, you know, up in this spot. I mean, this is pulling us through, you know, those laying hens. It's so easy to poo-poo the chickens, right? Oh, they're small. They're a pain. You know, they crap. They get everywhere. They crap everywhere. I get it. I'm, in that regard, not a big fan either. You know, they're so hard to keep in and keep contained. But look at this. I mean, look at this. Grass growth, you know. And then you go out in here and they were not out there. So here we are in drought seeing more growth, seeing a quicker recovery because of those chickens. And if you can swing it in a grazing operation, run them. Get an Eggmobile. Get it going. Get it going. I've got to figure out this year, and you guys have heard me say this, but how to get a longer hose and get them out. Just amazing the difference in grass growth even just after a year. And it's pulling us through, pulling us through this drought, buying us time, quicker recovery. Okay, real quick here, checking in on the meats. I know this is a longer video. Broilers, meat birds here. I just wanted to speak to them. First of all, these guys are doing really well. Just got everybody moved and fed. But I wanted to say I did add a second bell water. And I just, I tied that into the first. Now, we're keeping kind of like a little, a couple gallon, you know, container that you would fill. And, you know, challenges to that. I love this, though. This has worked out well because both of them are up off the ground now. They both automatically fill. And then these two bell waters, and those fill as the hens drink. So everything is on demand. But I wanted to say on this hookup, I used a splitter. And on our, if you guys saw our reverse osmosis video on maple syrup, maybe I'll link to that. There is a link in there to some quarter-inch tubing. That quarter-inch tubing fits very, very snugly right inside that black tubing that comes with these plussen waters. So I'll see if I can, see if I can link right here to that. And it works really well. And then just having that splitter. And that splitter takes it from the bucket. You know, drill a hole in your bucket. Takes it to the bell waters. And obviously those just need to be lower than your bucket. Just build a little stand here on the back of the tractor for the, but that's a seven-gallon bucket. Because I wanted to be able to hold more cold water at one time. Just so it takes longer to heat up. So they're not getting as much warm water during the hot days. But that's worked really well. Don't have to pull that other water out, right? Everything's up off the ground. So nothing's, you know, matting the grass. Okay, here we go on the sheep. Samuel, the shepherd there, is going to send him to us. Okay, so the goal is from over there. Going to come down through here. And then we will whip around to sheep paddock number one here. Right in through there. I've got that eighth of an acre sectioned off here. Let's go over these numbers in just a bit here. But also sheep and cattle. It's been 30 days. 30 days since we've come off of both of these paddocks. Again, that's more critical for the sheep. And that rotational grazing not returning to the same spot for 30 days is going to help. It's not going to eliminate, but it's going to help with those parasites and sheep, specifically that barber pole worm. You're trying to outlast that barber pole worm life cycle. Looks like he's gotten into some trouble here. Let's head up there and help out. I should have known better. Typically, when we move animals and they're hungry, when you try and go long distances, it is more times than not when they're hungry. It's just a disaster. They're just everywhere. Okay, he's got them. He's got them going in the right way here. See if I can get this. Okay. They're wanting to stop to eat. Everybody's hungry. We did put out just a little bit of hay here before the move, but nobody wants to eat hay this time of year. Give me that fresh grass, they say. Okay, here we go. These lambs, they've got so much energy. They just jump straight up in the air out of nowhere. I told my wife the other night, I said, can you imagine having that much energy where you just got to jump straight up? Got a few lambs this year with coloring. That was a little bit of red tint there on the head. Originally, I thought they were just dirty, but that's some coloring coming through there. Yeah, there you go. Go through the wire when you can go right through the gate. Good grief. I think there's a scripture about that, isn't there? Enter through the gate, sheepies. Okay, so we made a little makeshift grazing stick here. You can see, you know, at the base, kind of four-inch mark there. No graze. Really don't want to graze any bit below there, but I've just got inch marks here. You know what, every three inches. Let's kind of, let's take a measurement here and see if we can kind of back into how, you know, how long we should be on. This is an eighth of an acre. We've taken a quarter acre paddock, divided it in two. Again, the premier electro net, 164 feet. So if you have two of those 164 footers, it's right on about an eighth of an acre in this type of a setup where you've got it all the way out in a square. So let's take a look here. You know, putting this down here, you're supposed to pull up. I mean, we've got, yeah, we've got all kinds of forage here. Let's just, you know, we're thinner over in the other spot, though. So let's just do some conservative, some conservative estimation here. You know, we're running 10 mama ewes with lambs. Let's just say, and this is an overestimate because we have a few that haven't lambed that are much less weight-wise. But let's say we need, let's say we have, each animal is 100 pounds. So let's just say, for ease of math here, so 1,000 pounds of live animal, live sheep weight here. Let's say, you know, with the cattle, we assumed 3% dry matter forage was their need per day based on their weight. Let's up that, let's say 3.5% since we have these lactating ewes. On 1,000 pounds, you know, pretty easy math there, 3.5%, 35 pounds. So these ewes need 35 pounds of dry matter forage per day. Looking at the paddock here, if we say, you know, each inch of growth is between 100 and 200 pounds of dry matter forage per acre. Each inch, 100 pounds per acre on the low end. Now, this is pretty thick here. You know, let's, again, for convenience's sake and erring on the side of being conservative here, you know, let's just say, I mean, we had a measurement of up to, you know, 16 here, but we're thin on the other side. Let's say 10 inches, just for ease of math here. So 10 inches, but let's say it's 150 pounds, somewhere in between, since it's thick, between 100 and 200 pounds of dry matter per acre. 150 pounds, that would give us 1,500 pounds of dry matter forage per acre. Divide that by 8 because we're on an eighth of an acre and we're at about 187.5 pounds of dry matter forage on this eighth of an acre. Now, so how long can we be here? We need 35, 35 to 40 pounds. 40 pounds would be 4% of body weight. So, you know, if we want to leave half, again, going back to that chart, you know, I would say, you know, half of 180 is 90, 30, 60, 90. You know, between two and three days, I would be curious, you know, if we could, since we're estimating conservatively, if we could get three days. Three days would be nice. Three days, again, taking half, leaving half roughly. Again, with the sheep, it becomes a little more important than cattle with trying to hit that 30 days rest before you come back to the same paddock. You don't have to use one of these. It's just a makeshift grazing stick. I think they make official grazing sticks that where they have measurements on them and they also have dots. And I think you can stick, take the stick and kind of stick in this way and you can look for dots. And those are going to kind of tell you where you're going to be out on that 100 to 200 range in terms of the thickness, right, the density of your stand. And with the drought here, it just, it becomes about being more conservative, you know, trying to leave a lot of this down. I think one of the toughest things in the beginning, you know, as a beginning grazer, it was, well, you know, I want to use everything that's there. You know, what do you mean leave half, you know, or this trample, right? I hear all the time this trample. Well, you know, you're wasting, you're wasting forage. Well, that's really not the case. It's not the case. It's not wasted. It's organic matter. It's covering your soil, keeping that soil temperature down, keeping the moisture in. It just becomes paramount in these drought types of circumstances. And, you know, kind of stepping back and looking at the big picture, I think at some point in time we'll be thankful for drought because it's causing us to step back, causing us to get a little more precise. You know, just last year I was just running three days on a paddock, you know, just because it was convenient. And, you know, drought and hard times, they really cause us to focus in. And I think this is, I know this is the plan of God. These hard times, they don't come randomly. They don't come for no reason. They come to sharpen and to make us better and to improve. And I think if we can hang in there, if we can keep the faith, we see the goodness of God. We see him using the bad things and bringing about the good. You know, would I be here making this video about faith and hard times and the goodness of God without a drought? You know, maybe somebody, this is important for somebody to hear today. So point is, you know, hang in there, keep learning, do all you can, but keep the faith. And in these hard times or these challenging times, they're not random. They're not for no reason. And the Lord in his goodness, he's accomplishing things. If we can hang in there and, you know, keep pursuing, keep following, keep the faith. He's good. He's faithful. He's loving. He's kind. And I have hope because of that today. So thanks for hanging with us today. And I hope you have a good one. I hope you're at peace today. And we'll talk to you next time. We'll let you know next time how these numbers pan out. Take care.