From the Farm: Agribusiness Star Maroa-Forsyth FFA Chapter
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fxsBGgnr5bk
News & Politics
 Welcome back. Turning now to our From the Farm segment, our ag reporter, Stu Ellis, joining us in studio. All right, good morning, Stu. I know you were at the FFA convention a couple of weeks ago. Will we get to meet any FFA stars who were honored? Well, we've got two of them. Count them. Two of them in this WCIA viewing area. We've got one of them this morning. Taylor Crouch of the Merrill Forsyth FFA chapter, honored as the FFA star of agribusiness. Congratulations to you. Thank you. Now, for folks who are not familiar with the FFA organization, what has Illinois FFA recognized you as? I was the state winner in ag sales entrepreneurship, and I was also a star over Illinois for star ag business. You are one of four stars all around the state. So you have had a tremendous FFA career here at Merrill Forsyth. But basically, in learning and setting up multiple agricultural businesses, tell me what all you have been able to achieve. Yeah, so in the ag business, I pretty much run two small businesses out of my house. I live in Merrill, so kind of a small town, but I run two small businesses. So the first one is Petals and Blooms, so I run a floral company. I do weddings and funerals, homecomings, anything you can think of. I recently just joined a farmer's market in Wapella. And then my second business is called CF Supplies, and I buy conditioner, oil, and shampoo. It's called Hog Fathers from Tulsa, Oklahoma. And I was the first retailer in Illinois. I'm now one of, I think, two. So that's pretty cool, and I sell all over the United States. Okay, so we've got two things here to focus on. First of all, the flower entrepreneurship that you've got. Are you producing these flowers, and are you acquiring them and then reselling them? So I wholesale buy all my flowers from Bill Doran Supply Company out of Springfield. They've been my supplier the whole time I've had the business. And then how do you purvey those? How do you sell them? Are you selling them on the street someplace, at shops, mail order? How do you sell them? So I do a lot of weddings. I normally have four or five weddings a year that I do. So that's basically just customers coming to me saying, hey, I want some flowers. And then another thing that I recently started is I joined the farmer's market in Wapella. And I've been doing that for, I think, about two years now. But I've had really great success up there in Wapella, and I've loved it. Okay. And the other products that you sell, hair conditioning, various things, this is for show cattle. For sure, show livestock, really, isn't it? Yes. Tell me, how did you get involved in that? So I actually bought and used the product for three years before deciding to become a dealer. I did that just so that I could have my own background and basis on the product and how it works, to be able to have my own success with the product, to be able to tell other people about it. So in all of this process, what have you learned, and where is that going to take you? I've learned a lot about the business and marketing aspect of my businesses, which is why I am going into agricultural business and marketing. I'm going to be a freshman at Lincoln Land Community College here in the fall. So it's really just helped me to grow and progress, seeing that it will be something that I'll take into my future. Which included agribusiness here at the University of Illinois as soon as she gets done at Lakeland. So Thursday, I'm going to introduce you to the Illinois FFA Star Farmer for 2025. And those recognitions, those stars across Illinois, great impetus for FFA students to really excel because the honors are just tremendous and their name has carried on for a long time to come. You're right. It's definitely a big honor. Stu, thank you so much. We'll see you on Thursday. You can, of course, catch this segment and all others. Just head to our website at WCIA.com.