How To Install The EZ-Flo Mainline Fertilizer Injector
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FYfBTuDiLwM
Education
 You may not be familiar with the term fertigation, but fertigation simply is an alternative way to fertilize your plants and lawn through your irrigation system. A typical fertilizer injector system, like the EZ-Flow mainline units, have a tank or concentrated fertilizer, commonly in liquid form, is dissolved in water, then distributed in small doses with each watering cycle. There's plenty of scientific research that supports the advantages of fertigation as compared with traditional fertilizing techniques. Fertilizer absorption rates are greatly increased when fertilizer is delivered in liquid form, leading to healthier plants. Environmental concerns regarding runoff are virtually eliminated, and it's also safer since fertilizer is delivered in micro doses, eliminating exposure to harmful chemicals as you work in your greenhouse, nursery, or garden. The EZ-Flow systems that are available at Ewing are very simple to install and maintain, as you will see. There are various sizes of the EZ-Flow mainline system to choose from. Depending on your needs, the capacities range from one and a half gallons up to the 25 gallon high capacity model. Keep in mind that the larger the tank, the less often you will have to refill it. The main components of the system include the EZ-Flow tank with a cap that allows you to adjust the feed rate, shut off valves that you'll use during refills, and a ball valve coupling that will be spliced into the mainline. The ball valve coupling has two ports on it, one for filling the tank with water and the other for injecting the dissolved fertilizer into the irrigation system. Be sure to select the correct size ball valve coupling to fit your mainline. The EZ-Flow tank can be mounted above ground or in a valve box. The important thing to keep in mind is that the ball valve coupling must always be installed at or below the level of the EZ-Flow tank. It is also important to have an approved backflow prevention device installed between the EZ-Flow system and your water source to prevent contamination of the water supply. The first step to installing your EZ-Flow system is to expose the mainline. Make sure to turn off the water supply, then cut a section out for the ball valve coupling. To make the job easier, we suggest using a slip fix on one end. Some EZ-Flow models include the slip fix option, pre-assembled, for added convenience. After the ball valve coupling is in place, attach the included tubing to the barb fittings on each side of the valve's handle. Each length of tubing is five feet long, so you can locate your EZ-Flow tank in a convenient place adjacent to your mainline. The black tubing for incoming water connects to the blue barb, and the clear tubing should be connected to the green barb. Be sure to use the high pressure tubing clamps, which are included, to secure the tubing to the barbs. Run the other end of the tubing to where the tank will be located, and make sure the tubing shutoff valves are in the closed position. The water supply can now be turned back on. At this point, screw on the blue and green caps to the appropriate port on the EZ-Flow tank cap, then disconnect the shutoff valves from the tubing. This is done by pressing the washer against the shutoff valve while pulling the tubing out. Next, remove the tank cap and fill the tank with an EZ-Flow recommended liquid or water-soluble fertilizer. Top it off with water so there is no air left in the tank, then replace the cap. To purge any air that might still be trapped in the tank, you'll need to reconnect the black tubing to the shutoff valve. Don't forget the washer. Then, open the shutoff valve slightly until you see a steady stream flowing from the clear tubing on the opposite side of the cap. Close the black tubing shutoff valve and connect the other side. Next, open both shutoff valves and check the system for leaks. Once you've done this, you're ready to dial in the feed rate. The most common setting is slow, but your feed rate may vary depending on the type of fertilizer used as well as site requirements. Now, your installation is complete. Just water normally, and the EZ-Flow system will take care of the rest. Remember to fertilize responsibly. And if you have questions and would like to learn more, stop into your local Ewing branch or visit us online at EwingIrrigation.com.