Organic Sound and Sensible Project - Siembra Farm Our Path to Organic Certification
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fzMdYD0WXYw
Education
 User Content Audio and active Student And Ruby Visit J Fe Press The path that brought me to organic growing, I think had a lot to do with growing up in South Florida where there was a real food desert. You know, always kind of longing for that connection with, you know, real food. I think that experience just left me with a hunger for, you know, food and any food that I did find in South Florida, the mango trees or the orange trees, just felt like this real sacred experience. Moving up to Gainesville, there is actual farmland and there is actual farmers and it is, you know, something I discovered that you can do as a profession. When we're dealing with people at the farmers market, I think there is a lot of trust there because they can see us and, you know, they can form their own kind of ideas about how we grow and I think they mostly believe us. But there still is that whole process of kind of explaining, well, we're not certified, but we do grow organically, you know, under the organic standards. I imagine that there's people that just don't even buy from us because they don't quite trust that and they'd rather go to, you know, the farm a couple stalls down that is certified. At the market when there's a rush or when, you know, we're busy, not having to kind of go through that whole process of, you know, explaining and having the organic seal, you know, on our banner at the farmers market would offer that level of trust. As we've grown, we felt like there's really demand for organic produce and especially once we're getting into any wholesale where there's a middleman, you know, we're not there to represent our produce, our faces aren't there. And so having that organic stamp will allow us to get a better value and allow the end consumer to have that confidence. You know, there's other wholesale outlets that, you know, I hear from other farmers like, oh, this guy wants to buy as many as you could possibly grow of X, Y, and Z products, but they have to be organic. Filling out the application and starting to go through the process of keeping track of what we're planting and where we're planting it and what we're harvesting, you know, we've kind of started implementing some of these systems. So the organic systems plan for us has involved dividing up our field and labeling the different sections of our field. Basically we just have a planner. Here's a high-tech farming log. And then we just write down on the day, like, you know, spread compost, what we've planted, what we've seeded, how much we harvest, how much we sell, and then how much we discard. So the hardest part about organic certification for me has been the record keeping. You know, it's not my strong point is record keeping or paperwork or I never did my homework in school. So that kind of feeling like I need to do my homework after, you know, I've done my tractor work or whatever, that's been the hardest part. So in the rare occasion that, like, I have to use, you know, there's a variety that I can't find organically and we go with a non-organic, untreated source, what proceeds, what would be the, you know, what documentation or what, you know, what will the inspector need to see. It could be as simple as handwriting in a notebook. You could even put it on the computer on a spreadsheet or something. We just keep a log of the different seed companies you've contacted and what the result was. And it's a thing a minimum of three. If you're just seeing an untreated non-GMO seed, then it's okay to use. But you have to do your homework first. Yeah. Yeah. All right. Thanks again. No problem. Appreciate it. We had been composting stuff, but it was kind of loosey-goosey before, like, turn it and there's no temperature taking. It was just more like, I knew that was like bacteria and the microbial stuff and the compost is good. And it definitely added a whole other level to like go through this schedule and this process. I wanted to use like manure from local sources. The pelletized chicken manure is all shipped in from far away from industrial chicken farms and it's nice to be able to utilize, you know, local poultry and cow farmers and support them and, you know, reduce our carbon footprint by just having it shipped from the next county over. But yeah, it has to reach 130 degrees over a course of 15 days and within those 15 days you have to turn it five times. Then it's, you can, you know, it's, it's, you can use it and there's no harvest wait time. It's for immediate harvest. So you can side dress with it even or whatever. Good morning. You ready to have your inspection? Yes, sir. All right. Do you have a place where we can sit down for a little bit? We just need to do just an interview. We'll do an open, a quick opening meeting. Okay. Do you by chance have a copy of your application? No. Okay. I submitted it. Oh, you did. Okay. All right. We'll make sure we get you a copy then. I turned it in. Okay. Yeah. You should make sure you keep a copy for your records. I think I do have a copy on that. I think our sales will grow having the organic certification. And I think, you know, that our bottom line will be more profitable at the end of the year. And, you know, we'll have more income, more savings, more money to start our next season with the organic certification. To be honest, we'll continue starting to pay-raき our show now, the final rating is locked up over seven to eight hours and then? We'll come to the basic finish. We'll be working first. You can't just grab it, man. We'll do the game. That's what you'd love with today. Let's keep everything. We'll try it. Oh, you've got the final rating at all about 8 dokes, destroy this season. You can't sacrifice your numbers at all. So when we turn down and keep our kitchens out, we'll take away and put down on the Entscheidung or whenever actually March. You can't close the seat and avoid the hurt car in death. It will feel no moreiphany that I can catch them. You can keep up his knees from the detriment to that I can't信ite the change as well. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. It's a very tangible thing to show your customers. That's perfect. Good morning. Hey there. This is all organic, right? Yep. How did you decide to get certified? Um, you know, just to offer that extra degree of confidence for the buyer that we are actually doing what we say. And you know, a lot of people know us and trust us, but for anyone who might be new to the market or just wants that guarantee that the food is safe, there's not any funky stuff, and that we really know, you know, a lot of people might say organic, but do they really know what that means? I mean, this is kind of that guarantee that yes, we really are organic, you know, and we're not just offering, you know, we're not just saying that we don't use pesticides or whatever. To have the certification is a very tangible thing that you can just present and, you know, certified. Certified.