Making and Testing Goat's Milk Cream Soap Penny Adler SD
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G-PVYT7a17U
Education
 Music Hi, my name is Penny Adler and I am a soap artisan on the 444 farm where we have goats that we use to make in our soap. And I started with bar soap and ventured into a little bit of liquid soap but found out my love is cream soap. And that is what I applied for the grant for. I made cream soap and I had a failure where it separated. And at that point I wanted, I didn't know what caused the failure and so part of this grant was to figure out how to reduce my risk of that happening again. So the grant is for creating sound or good manufacturing practices. They're not any rules or legislated to us, they're just sound manufacturing practices that a manufacturer will follow. And that allows the customer to feel comfortable that they're getting a good and consistent product every time. So the cream soaps is different from bar soaps and it's different from liquid soaps. It's kind of a combination that it uses lye that each of them uses. But what it does is it adds a super cream. And these cream soaps will be in a jar instead of a bar or instead of a pump. And the cream soaps have a lather that just, I compare the lather to somewhere between like a pudding and whipped cream. And it's just this wonderful luscious lather. It's not real bubbly, it's creamy and it's just, it makes you feel good during the whole experience of using it. And it just is fabulous. In the past I've done some, what they call product testing at the point of manufacturing. Which basically says that at the point that I was done making the product that it was free from bacteria. This grant is going to allow me to do challenge, product challenge testing. And that basically says you've added a preservative. Is that preservative the right preservative? Is it going to do its job? And so it will actually, they will try and make the product fail by adding different bacterias or whatever to it. And that product testing is $500 a piece. And so that was just a huge thing in order to do as much product challenge testing as I wanted to do. That it will help with that. After mia man leaving. So that's pretty simple. I see you, my beloved medal in the post. I probably did want to do it toelt the or without bringing glassines or p Carnivus. He won't stop buying for of the red ones without bringing back destiny. Here we go soon. I'll walk the riddle ahead of her andilikers say a little bit. My family<|it|> for our customers is a пожалуйста omers for just an anyway. The firstFA суд Beispiel takes advantage of everything outside of the car. We love you. Else she'll wish to havegil or the reward and an amazing bite, and it's spent seit 10 and 15 minutes. And for your district VANry 3 0огandalsusi is constrained 1.