"Barbs in a Barrel" Easy Chaining Guide
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g1qBa9Sj7lM
Gaming
 A few people have asked me about barbarian chaining. The truth is I'm an amateur at barbarian chaining compared to some of the free-to-play professionals like 12-inch pvp-ness. Go and check his channel up. But this is an option of how you can generate a lot of say loha necklaces. I use really what I call barbs in a barrel which is kind of like chaining but then a little different. So first as I log on or as I'm doing other things in my account I will summon the barbarians around my account 1 through to 12. What you have to imagine is there is a clock ticking somewhere and you can usually summon three barbarians and then that clock will start once it gets to a certain time you can all you can do another barbarian or if a certain amount of time has passed you could all you can summon another three barbarians. So what you need to be is busy so this is only I would only look to use this method during the loha event. So whilst I'm summoning barbarians I would also be interested in level 21 barbarians. Why am I interested in level 21 barbarians? It's because level 21 is when they get the extra 10 gems. So 20 gems goes to 30 gems reward. So I'd send my best march out to go and kill that and then I would try and do some chaining. So where's the level 12? I've got a march here, let's have a look what's in it. It's got well all my siege ones out at the moment so I've got 24,000 in give or take of tier 2s so that's what I'm going to try and chain with. So pick out the 12, go over with your loha and let's get the skill to go. Now my loha for chaining obviously has the extra damage to barbarians but he's also got the rejuvenate which means they will cast their skill more often. Now there we go I think that's going to hit a few but if I move just over here a little bit uh maybe a bit more. Then you see when you're moving you have to press on it again so that the little camp sign comes up and then stop. Now this should hit a few. Now the loha event isn't on but if it was that would already be three loha necklaces, four loha necklaces. Now we're going to get a few of them. Let's now just try and move back a bit. Okay well I messed that chain up because I needed to get the 11 in. So let's now go back to the start. I want to stand over here because I want to block barbarians summoning there. Let's go through again so level 12, 11 is already there, level 10, and level 9 is already there, level 8. Nice. I should be locked out now, 7 is already there. Yeah I'm locked out so the clock has started. Let's go and see my level 21. So let's look for another level 21. There we go. See the level 17 there, only two possibility of 20 gems where the level 21 is a possibility of 30 gems. I mean it would be nice if I could hunt the level 25s but of course my marches I'm only tier 3. Now what I would now do, but I'm not going to because I'm making a video, I would now go on to my farm account. Here's one of my farm accounts, go home free to play. And as the Lohar event is on, it's a great opportunity to obviously fill up on wood and food. I would then go on there and do 5 lots of, kill 5 lots of mark, 5 lots of level 11 barbarians. Why level 11? Because of course at level 10 you can only get 10 gems but at level 11 it goes to 20 gems. So my farm will 3 marches to level 16 so it will 3 march then for 5. I'll then swap back to my main. I should be able to now summon more barbarians. There we are, a 6. I can't do a 5, oh a 5. Now that's enough for, go and check my level 21. Still fighting but let's see if we can do a chain. I need to wait a little bit longer because I say really I want to try and summon another 12 after I kill this one. This one's also a bit far away so let's go over and try and pick it up. And we're going to try and turn it. So let's start the fight. Now what's interesting and what you might not know is remember you can retarget this 12 one if you need to. So if it moves away a little bit, look, so if I retarget it, it doesn't cost another 30 XP. Sorry, XP, AP. So this is quite a far walk. Let's stop there. That should get a few. Is he going to fight? And we should get the 11 because I didn't get the 11 last time. There we go. That's got a few. Let's try and get the 10 now. Just move back a bit. Oh, I've killed the 12. So summon 12. Really fast. There it is. Let's see. Oh, that's wrong barbarian. Can we cast, cast, cast? Oh, never mind. I think my march is a bit too strong. Usually I use 40,000 tier one. So I didn't realize there was such a difference. Anyhow, the 11's there. 11, 10. Right. Back to Boudica. And I want a level 21. To be honest, level 22 would do. It's not as tough as they come. But I reckon I can take that one to one without too much health loss. Then I'll now go back to my farm account. Let's see. Let's try summoning again. So 10's there. 9's there. Now I usually do this at the gym on one of the bikes. So I'll bike for half an hour or an hour. So seven I can't do. So now let's imagine that I go to my farm. I'm now going to kill another five or six level 11's. Three march them. Say I don't care about AP on my farm. Log back into this account. By the time I log back in, Boudica would have finished killing this one. And I'll be setting up the next target. So let's keep doing. There's a level seven. There's a level six. Can't get a five yet. Back to Boudica. About to finish. There we go. Half-barred Boudica goes. Now here, if Boudica had Sun Tzu, I could have got a free level 20 here. But I don't really want to kill this march. So let's now have a little look at some of the reports. Uh. That's only a few on that one. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven. I mean it's seven Loja necklaces. And it's zero skill doing it this way. Now, in a minute I will do some real barbarian chaining. But this first just shows a spot that I've got. So to get a spot, what I do is I follow the river. And I look for mountains near corners of rivers. So there's a corner of a river. There's a mountain. There's a spot. Corner of a river. No spot. Follow the river. This one's going to end. Okay. There's a turn. No mountains. Oh, that's not too bad. Turn. No mountains. Oh, that's not too bad. Turn. No mountains. Turn. No mountains. Turn. No mountains. Maybe a spot there. No. Oh, here we go. There's some mountains by rivers. No, probably not good enough there. Maybe there. Anyhow, I follow the rivers down. And every time there's a corner, that's where I look for the possibility of a river. Oh, there's a level 21. Back to my march. Down to 11,000. Four's there. Oh, there's a level 21. Back to my march. Down to 11,000. Four's there. Three's there. So, let's kind of try to get a little bit of a river. Maybe there. Maybe there. Anyhow, I follow the rivers down. Maybe there. Anyhow, I follow the rivers down. And every time there's a corner, that's where I look for the possibility of an option. Oh, there's a level 21. Back to my march. Down to 11,000. Four's there. Three's there. So, let's kind of try and pull the 12 in, but I'm at half health now. It's only 11,000. That's nice. He's coming my way a bit. Really want to pick up the 11 in the first splash if you can. Put that to it. A bit more across. Now, that should get the 11. And then when the 12's dead, you want to try and summon. I'm going to save you low skill. There we go. That's got all of them. Let's go up a bit here. Oops, that's the wrong march. Sorry. Okay, I think I'm going to die. Take a few of them with me. So, even with 11,000, I managed a few kills. That's not too bad. Let's now put the march back out. So, I think this march is too strong. Oh, good. I've got some level. There we go. Right. Well, let's see if I can just do the 11, 12's. Whoops. Be careful of that. You always want to pick out the 12. Where is it? Let's see if we can do some proper chaining. So, just grab it there. Move across a little. Stop. Eleven's running away. That's not going to do that. I think we can do some proper chaining. I think we can do some proper chaining. Okay. There. The drop is running away. 이해. This. We can cover the 12. This'll be two different ones. So, just grab it there. Move across a little. Stop. The 11's running away. running away. That's not going to get anything. Hopefully that will get the 11. There we go. So we're waiting for the 12 to die and then we want to get the 12. That's the 12 dead. There it is. That was a bit of luck. That's the 11 and 10 about to die. So let's try an 11. Move back to get the 7 there. Oh, there's the 11. Move across. So I say I'm not too skilled at this. There's lots of better people better than me. So there we go. That's the 11. And we just need the 12 to die. I don't think it's going to let me get another summon in. Let's start going. Move around a bit. There it is. There we are down there. That should do it. I've only got 14,000 left. That's 9. There's the 11 right the way down there. That's Andy. I think I should be blocking this bit out with other marches. Is that going to hit? What do you reckon? Should be. Yeah. But to be honest, I'm going to die now. So I'm just going to see if I can take these two. So if I'm going to die, I'm going to try and add in some little ones. There we go. An extra kill. So that's 10. I'm gonna die. I'm gonna do a three before I die. Nope, that's 10. So that's 10. I'm gonna die. Can I do a three before I die? Nope. Yeah. nope got the two which would have been a loha necklace and i'm dead there we go let's have a look at this one one two three four five six seven eight nine ten eleven but of course of important ones it's twelve ten eleven twelve eleven twelve and that eleven killed me so there we are that's barbarian chaining in a barrel obviously you then go back to this one look for a level 21 remember you can't do the search especially if you buy a river because it would just send you on a wild goose chase so it looks like i'm gonna have to cross the river 18 22 i'll walk over and get that one and of course it'd be back to the farm before you go to the farm obviously do your summoning before you do your summoning block out where you want to block out and repeat and that's how i got to 700 odd loha nexuses in two days and that wasn't even that hardcore but that's what i did and of course there's a whole load of loha nexuses that you see i cleared all the ap on my farm because i don't need it for kvk hope this helps somebody uh and a bit of a basic watch but if it helps somebody that's fantastic you you you