Hustler's Bale Feeder is "Designed for Farmers and Efficiency"
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g6s3_RkouX0
Autos & Vehicles
 So we've got a couple of dairy farms on the coast just north of Omaroo. Milking about 2,300 cows. One farm's 250 hectares, the other one's 350. About seven years ago that's when we bought our first chainless Hustler bale feeder. We've recently upgraded the 5000 series. We bought one for this farm last year and we just bought our second one for the dairy farm up the road. We bought the new bale feeder from Stills Farm machinery just around the corner from us. The biggest benefits we find with the Hustler bale feeder is just the easy use. It's just designed for farmer and it's designed for efficiency. The loading system is just second to none. It's so quick. We're feeding out 12 bales an hour, faster than most big silage wagons. The build quality and the strength of the unit is just absolutely superior. You never bend anything, never break anything. The new feeder has the kick out side so you can clean it out really easily. So it's great to know the guys are thinking about it and making changes as they develop the stuff. The other great little benefit is you're out in the middle of the paddock and now we've got that really handy standard bin for the netting and the wrap. Just one of those things that Hustler has really thought about it. It's great. I mean my main driver is efficiency and if we can feed out, you know, 12 bales hassle free in an hour with one wagon, one guy, it's just a dream and it saves a packet. We can't fault the Hustler gear. It's absolutely brilliant and it does everything we ask it to do. Once that standing and it's just an accident he uses as a carpenter. If we are working on all these buildings, we're working. So that's what we're looking for? How do we have a team of casserole? What made you mean by a car computer drive? We'll meet up all this. In everyday bummer takes care of. We can see a mirage group of different puzzles. We can see進化 campaigns for different ways, in my life. If simple things don't tend to have to take care of these Anyこ-erop or, couple things. We incorporated on our own stuff. We were having to go to our brainEST parler. And see if we can go to our bright bank or maybe a severe ticket. If we can think of these areas we can manage theseuous carriers we deploy them.