HORSCH Live 2021 - Biological Control of Pests and Diseases in the Grupo Progresso
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G8n9VuWkApo
Autos & Vehicles
 Transculate by Hello again and welcome back to Horsch Live directly from the Horsch headquarters in Germany, the Sitzenhof. For those of you who haven't joined us earlier today, I'm Johannes and I will be your host for the English language sessions today. Well, a quick reminder on what is Horsch Live. Obviously, we would have loved to have you here in person, but because of COVID-19, this apparently isn't possible, unfortunately. So we thought about a creative solution to interact with you anyways, and this is Horsch Live. Fortunately, this new format actually gives us a chance to present you an even larger and more international seminar than ever before. So a special welcome to the international audience and thank you very much for joining. We hope you enjoy the next session. Before introducing our next topic and our next guest, a quick remembering very quickly on what this is about. This is Horsch Live and so we hope not only you will hear from us, but that we will hear from you as well. So please ask all your questions via the chat function of your channels and we will try to answer as many of them either after the sessions from the presenter or via the chat function directly. So we will be here to our next speaker. Actually, the two upcoming presentations will cover a topic that Horsch has been dealing intensively with for about two years now. And that's called biocontrol or biological plant protection. What is it about? It's actually the biological control of pests and diseases through the targeted application of an active biological agent. Something that here in the EU is somehow still a niche sector, but in other parts of the world like Brazil, this is already widely accepted and commonly used. Our next two guests will share insights on this innovative and interesting technology with us from two different perspectives. The user's perspective as well as the producers. Gregory Sanders will make a start and talk to us about the practical use of biological agents in large scale farming operations. Gregory is director of operations of Grupo Progresso, a family structured group of agricultural companies that will harvest close to 100,000 hectares in two harvests in 2021. Their operation is focused on the production of soy, corn and cotton. Gregory will talk to us about using biological control as an element of their integrated plant protection system and will share information about related opportunities, challenges, cost effects and benefits to biological management as well as intended future steps. Welcome Gregory. I am Alexander. I am an agronomist and operation director of Progresso Group. Progresso Group is a group of companies, familiar companies and individual growers that are established since 2001 in the state of Minas Gerais in the southeast region of Brazil and also in POE, the northeast region of Brazil. We grow cotton, corn and soybean and we have also a business of soybean seeds. And I would like to thank you a lot, Horch, to give me this opportunity to participate in this live, inviting me and my company to talk about what we are doing. In this presentation that we will award biologic control in our company here in the POE. Some of the main characteristics of Progresso Group is we are pioneers in cotton planning with high technology in the POE state. We started planting cotton here in the year 2003. We built our own gin in the year 2006. And since that we become a reference in cotton here in the region of Cerrado and POE state. We are one of the reference in quality of soybean seeds in Brazil. We get recently we've invested a lot in our unit here mainly in POE. And use of new technologies to make possible to produce soybean seeds here in POE in a place that is very hot and offer a big challenge to get a good quality in soybean seeds. We are known by being innovative in our production process. We always to be pioneers in the region we are operating. We have some discovery by ourselves, the way adjusting our process by our own to make possible the way possible to explore the crops we are in this region. We have a characteristic of share a lot of the knowledge. We learn everything we learn here in the region. We used to share with other growers. And we, for us, it's a way to make these mistakes we made and other people want to do this. And we can, at the same time, when we share, learn a lot of things that it would cost a lot in our mistakes. So this is a characteristic we have, is to share everything that we learned along all over the years operating here in the region. And we are avid to new technologies. I must say, we are the second horse customer here in Brazil. And we are very proud of this. Talking about our farms. We have Ouro Branco farm located in Paracatu, Minas Gerais State. It's the only farm we have in the Minas Gerais State. It's the first one the group established in the year 1997, before it became really a group. These farms nowadays, 2,600 hectares. Normally we have all the area planted with soybean in the first harvest. And almost 70% of the area planted with corn in the second harvest. We have another farm, the Peninsula. It's the little one we have located in Guadalupe, PoE. With 682 hectares irrigated area. It's very strategic for us to, soybean multiplying and give speed in new varieties of soybean that is being developed. We have Imperial Farm located in Sebastião Leal. The area total is 10,780 hectares planted area. Normally this farm we make one harvest and the second harvest only crops to cover the soil and make straw in the area. We have Rainha da Serra, a farm located in Uruçu, Piauí. With 14,300 hectares planted area. Normally this area we can plant total area in the first harvest with soybean. And something like 10 and 20% of this area along the years we can cover with a second harvest of corn. And the rest of the area, the same of Imperial. Covering with a crop to make straw. That is very, very important in our region. We have the youngest one, a tropical farm located at Baixa Grande do Ribeiro. Nowadays 17,400 hectares planted area. We can make something like 15% of second harvest with corn. And this area is to be consolidated. This next season it will reach the mark of 21,400 hectares. And we have the Progressive Farm. That is the first farm here in Piauí State. The most important area. The biggest planted area we have in one farm. And it's 36,000 hectares. This is where we concentrate our industrial structures. We have a cotton gin. We have our unit of seeds located in Piauí installed in this farm. Main activities of the group, as I said, soybean, corn, cotton grow and soybeans. The last season, 2020-2021, the current season. We will have in all farms in Piauí and Minas Gerais State. A total of 68,300 hectares of soybean. 9,000 of corn first harvest. And 3,900 of cotton. And as a second harvest we will have 16,400 hectares of corn. 1,100 hectares of sorghum. And this soybean irrigated, 850 hectares will be in the peninsula in the central pivots. To multiply new varieties that are in the pipeline to be registered for the next harvest. The soybean seed business, we have a unit in Oro Branco farm. With a structure of 120,000 sacks of 200,000 seeds. Like one sack like this. Normally for you to have an idea, you can plant one hectare of soybean with this number of seeds in one sack. So this structure can cover 120,000 hectares of soybean. All with all this capacity in a structure where we can keep all the seed storage in a cold chamber. And our main unit is located at Progresso farm. And a structure to 1,200,000 sacks of seeds. Really impressive. We have concept this structure since 2004. And nowadays we are ampliating this structure. Building a new big chamber. Cold chamber to storage ready seeds to go to our customers. I would like to talk a little bit about the history of biological control in big crops in Brazil. In the years 80, we had introduction of use of baculovirus to control soybean caterpillar. The Anticarcia gematalis. And that time, the growers used to pick up the Anticarcia gematalis that seems to be affected by baculovirus. And freeze all these caterpillars. And then in a certain moment, put all in a mixer. And then put this solution of caterpillar mixed in a big mixer inside a plane or terrain sprayer or a plane. And spray all this solution in the soybean crop. And this time it used to have very heavy work to pick up this. And to make all this process. And we have suffered a lot with the effects of weather. And so, in a way that the response of this kind of treatment by using baculovirus should be very preventive. Not so you couldn't use this as in the point where the caterpillar was giving you damage to your soybean. Where you would lose money. It takes a long time to control the caterpillar. So, this failed along the years. And the growers stopped using this kind of technology. Then in the years 90, for big crops. We know it's a very popular dipel, bacillus thurigiensis. And a commercial solution ready for use. But it was efficient. Not so much if compared with the chemical control. But it was a way to reduce the impact to interesting bugs present in the crop. But the cost of using dipel was so close to the chemical control. That doesn't make sense at that moment. If you compare the efficiency. And you compare the cost. It represented that time. And it didn't work. There was not so many growers using this technology at that time. Then in the year 2000. The beans. Soybeans and cotton growers. In some regions. Some more cold weather. Regions where we have a high altitude. When you have a temperature below 15 degrees at night. This main tree crops started suffering a lot with Sclerotinia Sclerotiarum. This disease. Caused by these fungus. Had a. Have a very difficult. And very. Expensive cost to control. By managing fungicides. And that was an opportunity. For. The biological control. By using trichoderma. Arsianum. To get succeed. And since that year. That year. Until now. We have. A lot of growers. In this main tree crops. Using constantly. Year by year. This kind of fungus. Or making. Buying this from. Companies. Specialized companies. To produce. Or some. Producing. This by their own. In their own farms. And we have. A big change. In the. Biological control. In Brazil. By the year. 2012. When we had. The introduction. Of. Helicover. Parmigra. In Brazil. At that time. Nobody. Was. Ready. To deal. With this new. Caterpillar. Caterpillar. Very resistant. For the normal. Insecticides. We were. Being. Using. And. To control. This. This new. Caterpillar. We should. Use some. Insecticides. That was. Very expensive. At that time. And. The helicoverpa. After. Its. Introduction. In Brazil. Leave. As a. Legacy. Many. Growers. After. That. Started. Using. Biological. Control. As a way. To control. The caterpillars. And. This. Created. A. Constant. Demand. For. All. The. Biological. And. This. Environment. This. New. Environment. Created. After. This. Event. For. New. Startups. To. Have. The. Recent. Most. Recent. Is. Segment. Of. Business. Was. Some. Companies. Developed. Some. Solutions. For. The. Growers. To. Produce. Their. Bio. Control. Agents. Inside. The. Farm. In. The. The. The. The. The. The. The. Honors. For. The. essence. coeurance. What. The. Healthcare. Us. This. Any. Comments. To. The. The. Commwoodments. Your. Communist. Next. Parts. To. Sí. Yes. Then. The. Last. Jared. The. of 2,000 liters each. So we have a capacity to produce at the same time 40,000 liters of bio agents at the same time. And this contract, this agreement, leaves us free to buy any source of any bacteria to any other company to be multiplied inside the bioreactors that are accommodated with them. The year 2019, we, by using an existing building, we installed 20 bioreactors of 2,000 liters at Fazenda Progresso, centered between other tree farms to produce and deliver all the bio agents to other farms. And then, November 2019, we started up this structure. Very simple use by mixed mixing the multi-bacter kit and the desired bacteria you need. We could produce at each bioreactor 2,000 liters of the desired bio agent. After producing, we put all the solution in, of each bioreactor in two IBCs of 1,000 liters. And after that, analyze storage in a cold chamber water, or direct use by spraying with our plants. The main use of each produce are for caterpillar controls, nematoids, and leaf diseases. And we've felt a lot the effects of reducing the impact. So this structure is very simple and we are using this spraying in our plants as the same as other chemical insecticides and fungicides to control the main bugs and diseases we have in our crops. With less impact on the environment we are controlling the environment we are controlling now, white flies, the complex of caterpillars, sting bugs, spider mites, and diseases by using these biological products at the same way of chemical we used to do before. The multi-bacter technology creates a very simple table for any agent you want to multiply. In the columns you have all the agent, a commercial product that you you can buy to use as a source of of this bacteria, the time of multiplication, the amount of commercial product to per each 2,000 liters of the desired product you you may multiply. And also you have the shelf life of the product at the ambient temperature, the shelf life extended at more or less 50% when kept when you storage this this product at 12 degrees Celsius and you have the target for each agent. You have a target a specific target on the crops and also the dosage of each each product to to control the target. For instance this table the product will help you to plan everything you need to produce, how long will it take and how long will it be available for you to use. Like the first column, the Bacillus thurigensis variety Azawai, the commercial Chantari, it takes 48 hours to to be ready. The amount you will use is 4 kilograms of commercial product to produce 2,000 liters of the the product and if you keep this at ambient temperature 8 days duration. If you put in the cold chamber 12 days of duration and the purpose of this product is for spodoptera species and pseudoplusa species and you take between 3 or 4 liters per hectare spraying to control these caterpillars in any crop. It could be soybean, beans, cotton. And here we have the nine main agents we work with in the last season 2019-2020 and here you are some volume of each agent we multiplied. The total amount of bio agent we produced on our bioreactors was a total of 1,210,000 liters of bio agents. Most of them with a purpose to control the caterpillars. Talking about advantages, so many you can save a interest bug that help you in the the pest control. And biologically you feel this a lot. We can feel the increase of spiders in our crops even in soybean, even in cotton, by using this kind of products and reducing the chemical control. And talking about money so you can see that we are not going to be saving. I find a very simple way to compare what's being saved in terms of money. Not to mention another advantage and other benefits of the use of the biological control that are difficult to measure. We didn't measure that. But talking about money, like soybean last year, we sprayed biological, it was an average in soybeans of 2.5 sprayings only using the biological control with no chemical. So 2.5 sprayings, I changed the chemical by biological with the same result of the chemical, biological, but with economy of 4.1 dollar per hectare. If you multiply by 2.5 and the area, a total economy of 488,000 dollars, almost 489,000 dollars in soybean only considering the caterpillar control with biological. In cotton, we had a little bit more sprayers. We used 4 sprayings, removing the chemical control, only biological control. So the chemicals in this kind of purpose are a little bit more expensive. So the reduction was 5.85 dollars per spray, multiplying that by 4 sprays and the area 4,500 hectares. We have an economy of 105,000 dollars. So the total considering just this crop, these two crops and this control of caterpillars, we have something like 594,000 dollars. So the pandemic of coronavirus, we have something like 594,000 dollars per hectare. So the pandemic of coronavirus, we suffer with that because we couldn't get any more sources to multiply. We had a multi-bacter kit, but we didn't, we couldn't buy the source of bacteria, mainly the Bacillus turigencinsis and Saccharopolisperospinosa for the use in the coverage crops that we plant in the areas that we don't make this second harvest. We plant millet, we plant Brachiaria, and we could have a higher economy, a higher saving of money, if we could use that point that we intend to use in this next harvest. So we are in the rain season 2020, 2021, we are about in the middle of this rain season. So we are estimating economy much higher than the last year. So in soybean this year, we have a little, we felt a little lower pressure of the crop in the year. estimating economy much higher than the last year. So in soybean this year we have a little, we feel a little, a little lower pressure of caterpillars in soybean and also cotton, I don't know, but I estimate to be the same. So talking about soybean, we believe we will use 1.5 spray in the total area, removing the chemical control and using the biological control. So the economy of a little bit higher this year because the dollar is increasing its value against the real and the cost of all the biological was in real. So this year the economy is a little bit higher than last year in terms of prices of products. So multiplying 5.02 1.1, 1.5 spray to in the total area of 49,900 hectares of soybean treated with biological we will have a economy of 375,000 dollars. This year we removed the first chemical fungicide spraying. We changed this by using the bacillus subtilis. So we removed one chemical spraying in the first in the vegetative phase of the soybean and introduced only the bacillus subtilis. So a considerable reduction of costs. 6.44 we reduce the cost in this spraying. One one spraying in total area we have a savings of 321,000 dollars. About cotton, this year the area is 3,900 hectares for spraying because the difference of costs become higher. 7.04 dollars per spraying by changing chemical to biological. So if you multiply this by four and by the area we had 109,000 dollars of economy. And this year different to the year 2019 and 2020 we will do the control of caterpillars in other crops like sorghum, millet and brachial. The total will be 50,400 hectares. We estimate at least two sprayings for economy because the products, the chemical insecticides we use in these situations are a little bit cheaper than the other than the cotton and the soybean will be a reduction of cost of 2.06 dollars per spraying. Multiply it by two and multiply it by the area we will expect 207,000 dollars of economy. So estimating all the use only based on what I changed by chemical to the biological. This year we expect saving 1,014,000 dollars of savings by change the chemical to biological with no with no loss of performance. We had some changes comparing the season 2019 to 2020 to the season 2020, 2021 that is in course. We removed the Chrome Bacterium Subsugae from our program because the efficiency of this kind of agent, you should at least spray this weekly and this is impacting in our operation mainly in the plains areas to be sprayed is very, very high. And doesn't make sense to us to continue with this agent that requests so many, so many sprays because normally the use of biologics goes with other products, goes with fertilizer and there is no significant change in our process of production. So the first, as I said, the first chemical fungicide spread in soybean was changed by chemical to the biological in most of the varieties of soybean. So this gave us a significant reduction of costs but we didn't see any change in the performance of the control of the fungus disease, leaf disease in soybean. And we are concluding our microbiology laboratory to have a sample of each production bioreactor and analyze this sample to ensure we are having a good quality product to be sprayed in our areas. We plan some changes for the next season 2021-2022. Agrobiological company that we make that agreement, we have a contract, we have a contract, is developing a feeding kit to produce fungi agents in the same bioreactor at the same system we are multiplying the bacterias. So by this we will have some new agents that are very important in our production. Like we will be able, if this work, we will be able to produce Balveria baciana to control white fly on soybean and cotton. We will be able to produce Isaria fumozorozae to control daubulus mites. That's a very important bug nowadays in the corn that requests a lot of sprays to control this pest. And you have to take too much care of the corn. You have to protect against this bug because it transmits some virus that can make a disaster in your corn. So we expect a very significant reduce of costs in the control of these main two pests, white fly and daubulus mites at corn. Daubulus mites at corn and white fly and soybean and cotton. And we plan to start producing Trichoderma arsianum. And the purpose of this is to use in the planting forum during soybean planting operation. To reduce the nematoids, to reduce the soil disease that attack the roofs of all the crops here in our explored crops. So, these changes for the next season will increase a lot. This money savings. We are expecting a lot of money savings by these main two new agents. These fungi new agents that we will be able to introduce in our control system. And that's it. Well, I would like to thank you all for the attention. I hope you enjoyed my presentation. And this can contribute to your business. And you can contact me via email that I show in the beginning of presentation. Gregory at fazendaprogresso.com.br or even accessing our social media. Live with us from Brazil. Gregory, welcome. And thank you very much for this very insightful and interesting presentation that you shared with us. How's it going in Brazil? We are starting to harvest. Very good. That sounds good. So, already good luck for that. Gregory, thanks for being available for answering some questions. And the first question isn't directly related to the topic you were talking about. It's rather with regard to the opportunity to do two harvests in one rain season. One of our viewers noticed that for the first harvest you plant around 81,000 hectares. While for the second harvest it's only, and that's still an impressive number, but roughly 20,000 hectares. So, what's going on with the rest of the 60,000 hectares? What's being done with them at the time of the second harvest? We used to plant some crops to cover the soil. We used to plant some crops to cover the soil. We need a lot of straw to protect from losing moisture. Here in Brazil it's very important to keep this. And we don't have a window, a correct window to produce corn in our area. That was the best world for us. And we use other crops that request a little bit less water to produce a considerable amount of straw. That's very important for us. Okay. Well, thanks on that. Coming to your presentation and to questions on that. So, you made it certainly clear that you're using an integrated system for plant protection. So, you're not really replacing 100% of chemicals with biological control. So, a question on that is, what's the ratio of biological control and chemical control? And what efficiency level do you see on biological control compared to chemical control? Okay. The situations we removed, as I was talking about in my presentation, for caterpillars and soybeans, we removed all the chemical control. But you have a sting bugs, white fly and other kind of pests. You can't control that efficiently in the system we have by using biological. But caterpillars, that is the test. So, the test we most spend money in the control, the biological substitute, changed every chemical to biological. Okay. And that other pests, we continue using chemical. But the fungicide control, we removed, we changed 25%, between 25% and 30% by using, substituting, substituting the chemical to biological. So, specific targets. Talking about pests, we changed 25% of control to biological. And the fungicides control 25% to 30%. Do you see an increase in that possibly in the future? Or will that stay at the same level for the time being? So, for these specific targets like sting bugs and white flies, we expect a better control by using fungus. The main bacteria that we are producing on farms are not efficient in the system we have. But with fungus, we have a better control by using fungus. The main bacteria that we are producing on farms are not efficient in the system we have. But with fungus, we have a better control by using fungus. We expect the next season. We expect to control these other bugs by using fungus. the next season. We have a better control by using fungus. This other bugs by using fungus. by using this new kind of agents. On one of your last slides you mentioned that one of the agents you used in the first season, in 2019-2020, you removed that. Can you tell us a little bit more about the reasons for removing that? What made you take that decision? Was it efficiency that made you decide to switch over again to chemical? That specific agent, Chromobacteria subsugai, was being used to control the stink bugs and white flies. But to be efficient, we should spray at least weekly. So at each seven days we would have to spray again the Chromobacteria subsugai to have efficient control. And our operational capacity of spraying with plants and other sprayers, we don't have this capacity to do weekly spraying all over our areas. So that doesn't make sense to continue with that agent. That's why we stopped using. And so do I understand right that there is an effect on workload for biological control or for biological agents so that you in general would say there is a higher workload when applying biological agents because you need to spray more possibly as well as more often? In this case, as I said before, I remove it because it would increase the number of spraying. But the system we are now, the changes we made from the last season to this actual season, we are not spraying more. We substitute the chemical by biological in the same spraying. Okay. And the main point is when you use a chemical, you have a need to spray, you go to your storage, you get the product and you spray. And with biological produced on farm is very different. You have to see the need, you have to produce the biological agent you need and you have to spray that. And you have a very lower shelf life of each product you produce if compared to chemical. So everything must be very synchronized to be successful in this kind of control. Did you change anything within your farm system to be able to do so, to anticipate when a biological agent is needed? Did you hire weather specialists or run your own weather forecast system or things like that to be able to adapt to that? Yes. Yes. We have to, like how do we say in Portuguese, to have all the area in your hands, to see, to know everything is happening, to control in the right point. You can't lose the control. You have to get the control in your hands of the whole area. That's the main difference. And you have to synchronize how long you take to produce the product and you have the capacity of planes. So everything must be, you have to be at least two steps ahead if compared to other systems by using only chemical. A question in this context is, do you spray the whole farm at once or do you check within the fields which area has caterpillars and really needs to be sprayed? Yes. Yes. That's what we do. We spray when needed. Normally when needed. The first, the first spraying between the first 40 days of this, mainly soybean, you, as on demand, but we have to enter spraying for the fung sites, mainly to protect from ferrugem asiatic. I don't know how to say that in English. It's a very important disease we have in soybean. Soybean roast, let's say like that. I don't know in the United States they don't have this. We have this roast and we have to protect from that. And at least 14 days, each 14 days you are spraying. And if you need to put something to control caterpillars, you put it. If not, you don't put it. Okay. That's the main point. As needed. Okay. Alright, thank you for that. Coming back to your integrated system. Since when exactly? So you mentioned in your presentation that you started to produce your own biological agents in 2019 for the first time. And was 2019 actually also the first time that you actually used biological agents or did you start the usage already before? Some agents we were using before, bacillus turigensis, we used it a long time ago, some situations. But it was our only usage. So we buy like DPL, I mentioned that my presentation, I for a long time used DPL. But the cost of DPL and the efficiency if compared to the other doesn't make sense at that time. And then we were present to Agrobiologica, the company that gave us all the support to produce on farm. And we started from zero producing to using a whole area at the same year. So we started because the cost allows us to do this. Okay. Coming back just quickly once again to the question of the actual application. One of the audience asked how many liters of water per hectare do you spray with 3 to 4 liters of bacteria? So in your table that you showed in your presentation, there was I think like you need 3 to 4 liters of product. With how many liters of water would that be sprayed per hectare? Normally we... Well, yeah. Here you are again. Well, we lost you for a second but you're back again. Thank you, perfect. Okay. Normally each agent between 3 or 4 liters per hectare. Like if I will use 3 agents, normally between 9 and 12 liters. But they spray... We can hear you, Gregory. You can continue talking, we hear you. So, by... The biological we use only by plants. Depending on the amount of chemical and biological we are going to spray. Normally it goes from 9 to 15 to 18 liters of total... Of total... Of total... Total liters per hectare. Total amount. Okay. Great. So, I think it's time for one last question. That would be regarding the economic effects. So, thank you very much first of all for sharing this profound insights on numbers with us and with the audience. I mean, when one looks at those savings that you mentioned... One has to ask oneself why is not everybody doing it this way? Because the savings that you mentioned and that you show are so obvious that normally everybody would have to do it immediately the same way. So, the question is... Is there any... Any negative effect that comes along with those savings? So, do you have less turnover, less revenue that you have to compare those savings with? Or is it actually the true savings and it's just a positive effect very generally? Yes, that is the only... The savings that can measure by changing the chemical, by changing the chemical by biological... And the cost of this change. Because the rest is the equal and the efficiency we are having in the products we kept in use are the same. We are not... We are not... There are a lot of effects of... We are not... When you use this you don't kill benefit... Benefic bugs you have in the crop. And there are a lot of things... The nematodes control... That we are not mentioning this. So, the difficult to... Is not really the efficiency. The efficiency when you have a... A synchronized production system... Are the same of chemical... But with a lot of savings of money. But the difficult is people... To manage... To have the... The control... To produce... The agents on farm... To build this. So, it's a... It's a... It increase you... The difficult... To... To... To... To deal with the problems. You have to... Another... Another... Another thing... That is a... Manufacturer to do the biological products on farm. It's an... Another activity... Another activity... You have to... To... To keep in your farm. Yeah. Gregory, thank you very much. I think... Thank you. That was very, very impressive to learn... And get these insights from you. For me personally, I learned that... That... That I think there's not that much... Against... Integrating biological control in your system. And I think it's definitely worth looking closer to it... Here in the European Union as well. Looks very promising to me. What you've already discovered in Brazil. So... Yeah. Once again, thank you very much for joining us. For giving us these insights. And... All the best for your harvest. And hopefully talk to you soon. Thank you very much, Johannes. Thank you all. Thank you all. Thank you. Goodbye. So, dear viewers. That was Gregory Sanders from Brazil. With... Yeah. Very impressive insights on biological control from the user's perspective. Horch Live will continue in about... Well... Already 10 minutes at... 6 o'clock... Central... European time. With our next guest on the same topic, but from a different perspective. So I hope you will join us again soon. And see you in a bit. See you in a bit. As always. As always. There are many ways to speed the world around to artificial knowledge. So... Yeah. We'll see you in a bit. Yeah. We'll see you in a bit. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye.