Agricultural Commodities to Invest In
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g_7JvZ9oFr4
People & Blogs
 So I think my other video about agricultural commodities totally went over people's heads. So that last video, not the video last, but the last for that, we were talking about agricultural commodities and their origins, especially out of share cropping and how it related to wooden nickels, which were a form of plantation payment that kept and has kept a lot of African Americans down. But in this video, if you want to invest in corn, wheat, soybean, coffee without actually owning a farm or having to be a sharecropper, of course, let me put you up on a few agricultural commodities that you can invest in today. First up is corn and the ticker symbol is corn and it tracks the price, the future price of corn. So as the future price rises, so does the stock. And corn is in a lot of things. It's not just the corn on the cob, right? You got to think of corn meal. You got to think of the corn extracts that are in a lot of our foods and is heavily exported. Next up is wheat, ticker symbol W-E-A-T. And this is tracking the global price of wheat around the world. So as bread goes up, you could potentially profit. Think Ukraine. Ukraine has a huge, huge wheat supply. That's part of the reason why Russia's after it. And then there is soybean. S-O-Y-B. Now this tracks soybean as it is actually a global cash crop. Soybean is in a lot of things in our food. Hate it or love it, but it is in a lot of our foods today. Now I can't leave you without talking about the ETF. ETF DBA. That is the one I recommend. I'm not a financial advisor, but that is the one that I recommend because I'll show you the holdings. And it has a lot of agricultural commodities in there. And why not use an ETF that wraps its arms around a lot of different stocks and helps you better manage your performance. As we know, food is always in demand. And these are agricultural commodities, ETFs and indices that actually move with inflation. They actually regulate shortages and they are triggered by global supply. So people with real wealth definitely invest in agricultural commodities. So now you know the game. Which would you invest in? Soy? Corn? Wheat? Let me know in the comments. As always, like, share, follow and book a session with me at theinvestorprofessor.com. Thank you.