How Much Money Can A Small Farm Make? Let's Talk Numbers
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gbDXUJPh4wM
Education
 So on this channel we talk about stuff that's really important about growing, about farming. And you know we've talked in the past about mental health. I think that's one topic that is really important with regards to small-scale farming. You know we often talk about how to grow stuff which in my opinion is really really really important. Learning how to grow your crops really well. But there's one other aspect where we rarely talk about and I think that's really important. It's farm economics. What are the right numbers to make the farm work financially? And that's a topic where there's a lot of gray area. There's a lot of you know there's a lot of different circumstances and there's a lot of different context. So it's really hard to say exactly what the right numbers are. You know each farm will be different but I know from having done this so many years and having helped so many farmers start up and set up their farms. Some of the ratios. Some of the guiding principles that you kind of need to have in your mindset so that you'll get there someday. So it all starts with that. Knowing the right ratios. So in the past like I was you know I was one of the first one you know in 2007 when you know I was excited about that to talk about revenues per acreage. You know at that time we were talking about a hundred thousand dollars per acre. And you know in that time that was big news. And that was that's kind of the first guiding point ratio that that came out. And then you know there was there's people before that they were talking about that. But the the total amount of sales per acre in my opinion is a really important guiding light. Okay that kind of steers the farm into the principles that you'll follow with regards to having a tractor or not. You know bio-intensive spacings greenhouse. The specs of the farm are clearly understood when you have that revenue per acre. And in my opinion the revenue per acre today should be 150. And we talked about this in the past. 150k per acre is kind of the where you want to go. It could be more and there's a lot of growers in the past that have exploded that number. Good for them. That's great. They might be amazing growers or they might have amazing markets where the prices for what they grow is double that of others. And so that's great. But 150k per acre I think today still is a good benchmark to kind of go with. But you know we can go further than that. And we can go and talk about yeah but that's great. But what's the bottom line? And the bottom line that we should be working with is the ratio of one-third, one-third, one-third. That in my opinion is the right ratio. And the ratio is one-third of that revenue per acre. And if you're on two acres you multiply by two. If you're on 1.5 you get it. Is one-third is labor. Labor is one-third of the operating cost of the farm. So if you have one, two, three people it should add up to about a third of the revenue generated on the farm. The other third is cost of operation. Seeds, compost, you know, bags, you know, fuel, mortgage and or depreciation on some of the things that you've bought. It's always better to get finance for what you want to do and to spread out the expense over five years. We can talk about that later. But that's a strategy that is really cornerstone if you want to be able to hit your ratios. Okay. So one-third is labor. One-third is cost of operation. And the other third is your profit, is your revenue, is what you make as the grower. And if that ratio is in your mind and that's what you're aiming to do, you'll probably get there. If you're not aware of all of that, if you're not thinking about these things, you might never get there. It's like having a target is like the first step into getting somewhere. It's like having a map. And these ratios, they're not too aggressive. They're realistic. And they will secure firm, sustained economic profit for the farm for many, many, many years. And so then from there, it's really up to anyone to see if they want to grow the farm, if they want to keep it like that. But these ratios are gold. And you should remember them. There's a lot of talk today about soil ecology, about no-till, about, you know, all these aspects of farming. People are geeking out totally about that. And that's great. But remember, the bottom line of a small, organic, diversified farm is how much money you'll make at the end of the year. That's really important. Because otherwise, your operation might be neat. It might be great on YouTube. It might be whatever. But it needs to work out financially. And you need to have the economic literacy to understand your farm as, you know, as a business. Because that's what it is. It's a business. And in small-scale farming, there's obviously not room for scaling up and having, you know, a growth that's exponential. That's not the goal. But just making sure that you're making enough to sustain yourself, to sustain your family, and to have a small, profitable, durable business. I think that should be the dream of everyone. That should be like their number one aspirations. And we should be talking more about numbers. And I don't think it's to go out there and kind of compare your farm with others and then throwing the numbers and saying, yes, I'm better than you. Because, again, coming back to context, some people have great markets. Some people have not so great markets. Some people are great growers. Some others are average growers. It balances out. But I think these ratios are helpful. I think they help understand, you know, where you can go. Like, on our farm, that's where we're at. Like, it's about three, you know, we're on an acre and a half. We're at 300 acres, 300,000 per acres. And if you split that ratios, that's pretty much our cost of operation and our net profit. And for some people that look at that from the outside, they're like, well, that's not that much profit. But, you know, consider the fact that, you know, the mortgage for the farm where we live is inside one of the third of a ratio. You know, the car or the truck, the fuel. There's a lot of expenditures that are around our lifestyle that goes into the operating cost of the farm. And I rarely talk about that because that's kind of like a, it's kind of, I don't want to get into trouble. But there's a large part of our revenue that is also cash money. Well, cash money still today is part of it. And that's worth a lot. It's, you know, it's worth probably a third more. So in the end, it works out. It works out to have the payments paid on, you know, anything that was financed, tools, greenhouses, you know, the mortgage on the farm. It allows us to pay the employees not that great of a salary. And that's definitely one topic that we could be discussing, you know, because I've heard it so many times. Obviously, the people working on the farm, they're probably paid minimum wage, a bit more. But, you know, we hire them. They come on the farm. They get a super nice training. Every time that they leave the farm, almost everyone that's been to our farm at least, man, they're sad that they're leaving because they had a great time. And, you know, they made money because they're not spending any when they're with us. So I'm pretty aware that our economic model wouldn't work if we needed to pay really good salaries to everyone. But, yeah, that's life, you know. A lot of the businesses out there, if they can pay great salaries for people, good for them. I don't know what they're doing. But, you know, we're growing veggies for the community. And we're working really hard to get there. And, you know, our economics don't allow us to pay people $25 an hour. It's just, it doesn't work. The numbers don't work. To all the young farmers out there that are hesitant to borrow money to start their farm, that really want to do it all on their own DIY, I think your heart and your courage is recommendable. But if you work the numbers out, you'll clearly see that it's much better to borrow money for what you need and then pay it back over the next five years. Even if you borrow $100,000 and you have a 10% interest rate, which is, you know, really not good. And the payback is over 10 years or five years even. It's worth it because the capital that you'll invest, acquiring tools, getting a greenhouse, you know, establishing a nice walking pack, washing pack area, all of that is going to generate income. It's going to save you time. It's going to make you more productive. And that's the money working for you. And it outcompetes the interest rate. So I believe in borrowing money for the business. And I also believe that you need to set up the farm so that at year five, you're really making, you're at the end. You know, the farm design should be done so that at year five, that's the farm. And you start with that plan. Where will that farm be in year five? Then you get the equipment and you set up the infrastructure, perhaps over two or three years, but you have the end planned in mind. And that's really important because that's going to avoid you, you know, getting too small of a cold room the first few years because you didn't think that you would get somewhere else, but you will. And the ratios that we talk about, it's at year five that they should get there. Not at year one, not at year two. Year one, if you don't lose money, that's great. Year two, if you break even, that's great. Year three, you should be making a profit. Year four, you should be making more. Year five, you should be hitting these ratios. But, you know, doing it all on yourself, taking all your cash money to buy everything, it's not good economic insights. You should keep some of your cash, borrow some of it, have a clear, precise picture of the farm that you're building. And you should have the ratios that we talked about in your mind. These should be somewhat your goals. And also, you should have, you know, proper, you should have proper budgeting. You should keep register, you should register your sales. You should know where you're at on a weekly or on a monthly basis. You should have sales and revenues in check all the time. You should have somewhat of a clear picture of your financial as you're farming. Otherwise, it's just, you know, I've seen it so many times. Growers that are dedicated, they're farming full on, you know, they're putting everything they have in on the farm. They go to market, they load up in the morning, they sell out. It's happening. They're always on a rush. Things are booming. So they're buying, they're purchasing, they're not thinking about what they're doing with the credit card. But things are going well until, you know, November, when they look at the bank account. And after the end of the season, there's no money in the bank account. And that doesn't mean that the farm isn't profitable. That means it's not run profitably. It's not, the numbers need to be checked. And you should have some guidelines of expense and revenues, some targets, profits and loss should be kind of in your mind. Not every day, perhaps not every week, but at least every month. You should look at where you're at with your numbers. And if you want to, you know, if you want to learn more about that, and I think you should, because again, coming back to my point, it's really exciting to geek out about cultivation tool. It's really exciting to geek out on soil ecology, getting a microscope to check out the microbes in your soil. That's all great, but that's not going to get you nowhere if you're not doing the math. And if your farm is not run, you know, with certain economic acumen. So there's resources out there. The Farmer's Office is a book that I like, that I would recommend. You can check that out. And you can check some, you can check this video that we made on farm profitability. That's it for this week. I hope you guys are well. I'm well. Things are growing. I'll see you next time. JM out.