How to Present the Value of Telematics to Customers
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gDOMl1aJNRU
Science & Technology
 My name is Darren Kennelly. I work for Berkey's Farm Store. I've been a precision farming specialist for about seven years now. And the interesting part about telematics is we do have a segment of the industry that is more interested in telematics, especially your larger operations, your fertilizer dealers, your co-ops who are interested in fleet management. Most of our producers, customers that don't have a large volume of equipment are not so interested in telematics now, but I think the point at which they would become interested when we started to really question the reduced downtime during the off season. And I think where that really comes into play is off-site diagnostics. So if a guy goes down, if he's able to make a telephone call and somebody that's miles away can access that monitor and try to find out what the problem is so that he can keep going sooner, I think that's where a lot of guys are going to see the value in telematics. At this point, we don't really see that value as much or the customers haven't even realized that. But I think as time goes on, they're going to start realizing the value of that piece of the puzzle, more than just a fleet management like a lot of customers or co-ops are seeing now. I think it's just selling the value. I think a lot of guys now when they think of telematics, they think that they'll be able to download their information from their tractor to their home wirelessly. And they're interested in that, but yet they don't see a great value in that because they can take their card or transfer it in many other ways. So they don't see a great value in that and I don't think a lot of them have really seen that value that can come from reduced downtime. So I think from a dealership perspective, we need to be selling that value in order to see, to be able to have them convinced of what that value could bring to them in telematics. I think where we're seeing right now is some of the more productive producers, some of the more advanced producers are starting to be interested in this and they will be the early adopters we'll probably jump into. And I always say the proof is in the pudding. And so when you get more and more people that are starting to do this, they're going to see the value themselves and they're going to start promoting it to the different friends and the neighbor farmers that they do have. And then from a dealer perspective, if we continue to push that, it'll continue to grow.