JCAST - Jordan College of Agricultural Sciences and Technology Fresno State
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GegEh6-16Wg
Education
 From the classrooms and laboratories to the fields and markets, the Jordan College of Agricultural Sciences and Technology delivers a comprehensive and interactive educational experience for the next generation of leaders. The close-knit relationships you form with instructors, the environment they provide for learning to happen has absolutely blown my mind and really made this a second home for me. Located in Fresno, California, one of the world's richest agriculture regions, the college offers students opportunities to learn science, technology, and management through hands-on experience. Here in the Valley, we have more than 300 different crops grown, and so being a member, being a student here at Fresno State and a member of the College of Agriculture, it allows me to really learn about all of those different types of crops, but the vast industry that I really want to be involved in. The Jordan College of Agricultural Sciences and Technology is led by Dean Charles Boyer. Charles Boyer, Dean of Schools, We're blessed by having over a thousand acre farm right next to campus and on campus so that we can have our students walk out of the classroom, into the fields or into the dairy and experience what they just talked about in class. You're in the classroom one minute and ten minutes later you can be out in the fields at Fresno State looking at an orchard, looking at a vineyard. If you want to be stuck in the library, this isn't the place for you. You want to get your hands dirty, Fresno State's where you go. Siblings Ryan and Megan Jacobson both credit their Jordan College education for launching their successful careers in the ag industry. I think most people don't recognize the significance of what science and technology plays in the day-to-day ag industry, yet when you go through a program like that it makes you that much more viable of a candidate to go out into the workforce and play an important part. Students and alumni of the Jordan College constantly say the program's success is directly tied to the close relationship between students and faculty. I love being able to come to a school where I can actually have a conversation with my professors and have a relationship established. I still utilize those professors in my professional day-to-day life and asking them questions and having a mutually beneficial relationship. The Jordan College houses a diverse array of departments and programs. The Department of Agricultural Business is nationally recognized for blending economic principles and business application in the agricultural and food industries. We focus, I think, at Fresno State a large part into things that are applicable in the real world. Every study we do, every class I've taken, everything is relatable to what's happening in the real world. The Department of Animal Sciences and Agricultural Education prepares students for teaching, communication careers, dairy, equine, and livestock management, as well as pre-veterinary medicine. Graduates of the Department of Food Sciences and Nutrition are ready for a wide range of programs. The Department of Food Sciences offers child development, family science, and fashion merchandising degree programs. Fresno State's Department of Industrial Technology prepares students for dynamic careers with hands-on experience using a broad spectrum of current and emerging technologies. Students in the Department of Plant Science receive a solid foundation for numerous agricultural careers. Many students also earn while they learn, through assistantships in university laboratories or internships with local farming operations. We've had an excellent record of working pretty closely with industry. We have some great industry partners. We've just had industry sponsor and donate funds to endow another faculty member in our department, another faculty position in our department. We already have one endowed position in the department. So industry has certainly stepped up to help the department and help our students in that way. All of our faculty in their research projects work very closely with industry and they really have a focus on most of their research on hands-on and very applied research. Students come from around the world to study in the prestigious Department of Viticulture and Enology. Fresno State is the first university in the nation to have both an on-campus vineyard that represents all segments of the grape industry and an on-campus commercial winery licensed to bottle and sell wine produced by students. Many varieties of Fresno State wine are available at the Rue and Gwen Gibson Farm Market where the community lines up to purchase student-produced products. I think the amount of community support that we have here at Fresno State is amazing. We have the farm market here that's on-campus and every time I go in there I see people that don't even go to this school that are in there shopping and supporting the Fresno State students. As Central California emerges as the new California, agriculture is in the spotlight more than ever before. The Jordan College of Agricultural Sciences and Technology delivers the education and experience to become a leader in agriculture and its related sciences. The Jordan College of Agricultural Sciences and Technology is on the cutting edge of the new California, driving the research, technology, and innovations that shape our world today and tomorrow. The Jordan College of Agricultural Sciences and Technology is on the right side of the American