Forest Harvest Methods: Restoration Thinning
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GGO553JEME8
Education
 There are well over 50,000 forest landowners in Oregon, each with different objectives for their forest. For many, harvesting trees is part of their management plan. In eastern and central Oregon, restoration thinning is helping to restore health and fire resiliency to overcrowded forests. This project is important and these restoration thinnings are really important because we are trying to help get the stands back to a natural state. Due to logging in the 20s and 30s, as well as fire suppression, these stands are very overstocked and lodgepole and white fur have come in and they are not resilient to fire. And so we're taking this opportunity to do these restoration thinnings, leaving the healthiest trees to create a healthy forest that's going to be resistant to fire, insect, and disease. Thinning is good for the trees because it's going to create more sunlight and there's going to be more water and moisture that's going to hit the ground, which is going to really allow the trees that are left to become stronger and healthier. In the next three to ten years, we're going to see a lot more growth on these trees than we have in the past due to suppression and overstocking. This project in particular is part of the Greater West Bend EIS Environmental Impact Statement, which is about 26,000 acres in size. There's a lot of things that go into it from the planning phase and areas to protect and considering all the resources. So once the contract is awarded and it's delegated authority to a sale administrator like myself, every day I'm out on the ground working with the contractors to implement the work that gets done on the ground. The unique thing about the stewardship projects that we're doing out here and the involvement with the Deschutes Collaborative Forest in order to make this stewardship happen is that the revenue that's created from the timber that we are cutting helps pay for the other restoration items and work we're doing out here on the ground. We need to work with industry in order to make that happen. They are a key piece in the restoration part of this and with this it's creating local jobs and it's creating wood that's going to a local mill here in Central Oregon. And so the benefit of the restoration piece that industry is providing is helping to create a healthy forest which benefits wildlife, protecting the community of Bend, as well as creating a resilient and healthy stand. Restorative thinning is just one harvest method used in Oregon's forests. Click to see how other harvest methods are being used to achieve landowner's objectives in a different corner of the state. Good. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.