Sows in gestation crates
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ghq_LCIgduk
Pets & Animals
 Music Hello, I'm Scott Phillips, a farmer from Missouri. And we are in front of the gestation barn. This is where the sows gestate and also where we breed the sows. Come on in, let's go look. We're in the gestation barn. This is where we breed the sows and then we let them gestate for the 114 days until they farrow. And we like to keep them in individual stalls. What the stall does, and what I like about the stall, it protects the sow from all the other sows. They can still socialize with the sows on either side of them. However, it's protected from that sow beating up on her. And she's protected from that sow eating all her feed. It's easier to take care of an animal when they're installed versus outside in a big pen. Having them here, you can look at each individual sow several times a day. You can determine if a sow is having any problems. And you can exactly track that sow when she's ready to have pigs. And then you can move her into the fairway house a few days before she has pigs. It's easier to do it here. And then it's also easier on everybody that works here because a sow is a big animal. If you don't watch it, they can knock you down. They can really hurt you bad if you don't watch it. And if they're in these individual stalls, they don't do that. But a stall does not hamper the sow's movability. We do not see anything negative about a stall in the well-being of the sow. Our objective is the sows don't get sick. The sows get fed every morning. The feed is measured into this container in front of the sow. And then the sow gets all the feed that you give her. She doesn't have to compete for that feed from another sow. That's a good thing about it. And she doesn't have to compete for water either. Each sow has a tag so that we can identify that sow from all the others. And on that tag, we keep track of all the records of the sow. So we keep all that information with the sow on this card here. And we enter it into the computer every week. We want these pigs to be without stress. We want them to be comfortable. And if they're stress-free and comfortable, then they provide a good, healthy meat for the consumer.