INCREDIBLE Fruit Harvesting Machines
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gHVA_FyXvPk
People & Blogs
 Palenq Optimum. The multifunctional harvester by Palenq is fully equipped to perform all the functions for working in viticulture. It can be equipped with secateurs, precision scissors for cutting, various tools for removing leaves, and devices for tying up fines. Also, the harvester can plow the land between rows of grapes, removing weeds. Harvesting with Palenq Optimum is fast and completely eliminates the need for manual labor wherever grapes are harvested for the purpose of further processing rather than sale, as in the process of harvesting the grape recine gets totally destroyed due to picking by means of mechanical shaking. When harvesting, the grapes are immediately separated from the debris and collected in a container. The operator controls a harvester from the cabin, located approximately 4.9 feet above ground level. The cabin is equipped with a multifunctional touchscreen and has a 180-degree viewing angle. Victor Wormchuck FMR has been engaged in the production of machinery for picking fruits from shrubs for 25 years. One of the most efficient machines is the Victor Harvester. Most often, this machine is used on plantations of honeysuckle, currant, dog rose, and gooseberries. The machine is equipped with such settings as speed of the conveyor belts, regulating the wobble level and the power of thrust of purifying coolers. The vehicle perfectly copes with a collection of shrubbery planted on fields of about 100 hectares. The use of this machine ensures excellent harvest yield and high-quality berries. Harvesting is done by using special shakers located opposite to each other. With these mechanisms applied, the collection of fruit is carried out without harming the plantations. From one hectare, it is possible to pick 20 tons of fruit. Expand R5090 is an automated system for harvesting fruit and olives in particular. The Expand R5090 system for harvesting from trees consists of three machines. The first one approaches the tree and lays down the tarpaulin under it, completely covering the area of falling fruit. The second one grabs the trunk of the tree, which ticks and shakes it with a high amplitude, due to which the vast majority of fruits fall from the tree in a few seconds. Then the tarpaulin is rolled and everything on it automatically gets on the conveyor belt of the machine that coordinates the tarpaulin. The conveyor transfers the harvest to the container of the third harvesting machine. Once approximately 660 pounds of harvest are picked, it is transported to a place of storage or processing. Modi is modern agricultural equipment. Its main purpose is harvesting pumpkin seeds for food supplies and industry. It provides the most effective acquisition of resources and the lowest labor costs. The machinery is convenient in operation, highly efficient and appealing with its finishing and shape. A KEY-E 3000 mechanical drive enables high performance of the harvester. This product was created having applied years of experience in assembling pumpkin harvesting aggregates. Similar technologies have been manufactured for 20 years. The main instrument of these agricultural monsters is being equipped with a cylinder cage with semi-circular rods. Its diameter can be from 6.6 to 9.8 feet. Such a configuration ensures complete harvesting without any loss. Oxbow 9120 The company Oxbow has launched a model 9120 harvester for collecting raspberries which fully automates the process, is gentle on the bushes and does not damage the crops. The harvester has the shape of the letter PI. Its middle part passes above the rows of raspberry bushes, the shaking rollers grab the bush from two sides and mechanically shake it. Picked berries fall into the moving grooves of the conveyor and from there move along the tape to the boxes. The machine is controlled by two to four people, one driver operator and two harvesters who keep changing trays for raspberries at the conveyor and immediately store boxes with the harvest. The entire surface of the harvester has got 775 square feet of storage space. It is recommended to put an average of 25 to 30 boxes on each other. Thus, the machine can fit more than 150 boxes. Robotic Apple Picker An unusual robotic vacuum cleaner has been launched in the US. It is meant for harvesting apples. SRI International presented a new development, a machine that picks fruit from trees at high speed. The company assures that the use of a robotic vacuum machine guarantees the integrity of the fruit being collected. An active use of such equipment will help owners of farmlands expand their territories and increase labor productivity in the harvesting of apples. To pick one fruit, the device needs less than one second. Besides, the robotic Apple Picker can independently switch between the trees. It is also worth mentioning that the installed software identifies defective fruits and informs a farmer about the possible diseases in their garden. Thanks for watching. Stay tuned. See you in the next video.