Agronomy’s Role in Sustainability with Case IH | Full Episode 076
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GI_Fme9wXlQ
People & Blogs
 Welcome to Discover Ag, where every week we discover what's new in the world of agriculture. We're your hosts, Natalie Kovork and Tara Vanderdeusen, and together we bring you our professional farming opinions on a variety of trending topics in the ag and food space. We're ag like you've never seen or heard it before. And today is a very special episode, episode 76 of Discover Ag, and it is brought to you by Case IH, to the men and women at Case IH, farming is a way of life, a life they live every day on millions of acres across North America. Get to know the farmers who work at Case IH and see how they bring that perspective into everything Case IH does. Visit builtbyfarmers.com to see their stories and even share your own. Built by Farmers, Case IH, a proud sponsor of the Discover Ag podcast and a proud sponsor of this very special episode where we're going to be talking with one of Case's. Yeah. So welcome to episode 76. Like Tara said, it's a Tuesday. And so we have one of our interview episodes, one of our advocating episodes. And so we actually, it's with our sponsor, Case. So we have Dr. Allison Bryan here who's on staff at Case IH as a research agronomist. She's focused on soil management. She received her bachelor's in crop and soil science from Illinois State University and her master's and doctorate from the University of Illinois in crop sciences, where her dissertation focused on high yielding corn and soybean systems and managing crop residue in different ways. We are in extremely safe hands here. She's going to be very knowledgeable. Given the background that I just said, you guys might've guessed it, but we're going to be talking all things soil health, tillage, tips for successful planting season. Basically, we want everyone tuning in today to leave with a better understanding of sustainability and agronomy's role within that. So with that said, welcome Dr. Bryan to the Discover Act podcast. Thank you. I'm excited to be here. So I guess jumping right into this conversation, we want to start the conversation around soil health. And the reason for that is because I feel like in today's like headlines and news, we're constantly seeing conversation obviously around carbon and carbon sequestration. And a lot of that goes back to soil health and the importance of soil health. And, you know, one of our favorite topics is obviously cattle. And I love connecting that back to how cattle and manure play such a crucial role in soil health because of the organic matter. And so maybe from your perspective, start with why is soil health so important? Well, yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. So I think you hit a lot already on soil organic matter and how important that is to soil health, as well as the farmer's bottom line. It can actually really set the yield potential because it's doing so much. It's really helping enhance the soil aggregation, which is basically impacting your soil structure. Okay. So if you have proper soil aggregation and that higher organic matter, then you're going to be able to have water infiltration. So it won't be running off. So that's very important. You'll also you'll have that better pore space. So you can have both water holding capacity as well as air soil aeration. So when the plant is there, it can have access to anything it needs. Soil organic matter is also has a really big impact on CEC, which is the cation exchange capacity. So that is the ability for the soil to hold on to essential nutrients for the plant and make them then readily available to like when you plant that seed in the ground, the roots can access it. So that's really important, too. So if you can increase that or maintain that. And so a healthy soil is going to have a good amount of soil organic matter. So then that way it because it's really impacting the ebb and flow of the nutrients there, because soil organic matter has a part of it that can break down to to release those nutrients to be readily available. It's a whole system. So anyhow, pretty important part of it there. Soil organic matter is very difficult to change. So that's something that as a farmer, you want to make sure that you're maintaining it, because if not, things need to be done to adjust for that. And so if you have a high organic matter, that's a good thing. It's definitely hard to adjust. But basically, things that you could do to help enhance that is like you mentioned, the application of other organic matter. So when you harvest grain residue, crop residues left out there, and that is crop organic material that's going to help you maintain, but also the application of manure. And that's going to be another very lively. Microbes love it. And that's a very good source to maintain or even improve your soil organic matter over time. So that's a really big one. Other impacts on your soil health is particularly in on that soil organic matter. Things that can erode it would be soil erosion. So if you have areas that are highly erodible in your fields, that's where you'd want to potentially incorporate reduced tillage, which we've got options for that. But then also the incorporation of more of that organic material cover crops. And and that's where especially in those areas that you might want to incorporate that because the higher carbon, the higher organic matter can build faster. Okay. Okay. So we we covered a lot there. So we're going to circle back around and kind of break some of that down so we can go maybe a little bit more in depth and like a deeper level. But first off, I want to say I really loved how you brought in the bottom line portion of it. I think when initially when we always go into these conversations talking about like sustainability or regenerative agriculture, you know, whatever we want to call it. A lot of the focus is on, you know, the climate or the soil or the plants and the animals. And as it should be like that, that carries a very large weight in it. But I always think it's really important to loop in, you know, there's multiple pillars to the word sustainability, one of which is economics. And so, you know, pointing out that that is something that, you know, we should care about. That's something that building up our soil does in turn bring back to, I think, is like a really important point. Absolutely. I think to add on to that, a farmer isn't going to want to ruin their livelihood. And that's what their land is. So they're going to be cautious of this and making sure that they're monitoring these levels and that they're actually that's why the sustainability. It's a really hot buzzword right now. But it's also I think farmers are already making a point to make sure that they aren't losing their livelihood, whether it's the land itself or their their income, because it is their livelihood. Yeah. Go ahead. Oh, I was just going to say with the carbon market right now, that's a really big focus. It's it's I mean, carbon research has been going on for a long time, but right now it's people can get paid for it. Right. And so the carbon credit side of things, that's something that we're trying to at KCAH to make sure that we're we're trying to stay ahead of it or or make sure that we have the answers that the customer farmer might need. So, like, we're going in and we've already done long term research with cover crops and strip tillage. And so that's part of it. But then also different pieces of of say our tillage equipment. We're looking at the impact of if a farmer utilizes this practice, then what's going to happen to the soil carbon and how can they say they lose this much because of natural cycling cycling of the carbon. But then also of the tillage practice that they need to use because a farmer, they're going to select their tillage based off of so many different reasons. And it's it's going to be because of what they need done, whether it's managing crop residue or if it's they've got highly erodible areas where they need to maintain as much residue as possible. But they've got a really tight weather window in the springtime. So they need it to be warmer and drier. So they have to run some type of something or maybe they've got really like high disease pressure. And so they have to manage the residue. So we're trying to make sure that it doesn't matter what mindset the grower has, that we try to answer all all these questions with the carbon side of it. So we're looking at lots of different practices, the impact on the carbon cycle and then the input from the yield. So if you achieve this yield and you put this much carbon back out there in your residue, what's the offset? What's the carbon budget? And so that's what we're looking at to maintain soil carbon. So we're doing some research that's first of its kind, hasn't been done before with certain aspects of the carbon. I can't dive in too deep on that, but we're hoping to work with universities to to further this research. And it's going to be years and years. But anyway, we're just trying to stay ahead of that and make sure that we can answer more questions about the carbon side of it, because you've got companies paying these carbon credits. But if they don't know the baseline of what this particular tillage method is truly doing or impacting, then how can they pay you the right amount? So that's stuff that we're making sure that gets done for our customers. Yeah, I love to hear you say that, because I always joke that the carbon credit area right now is like the wild, wild west. Like nobody knows exactly what's going on. No one knows exactly how much you're getting or how much you're not. Like, how much are you actually removing? Like it is a very complicated system that is not as direct as people, I think, want it to be. And so I'm glad to hear, too, that you guys are kind of like helping farmers along that process, because I would say one of the number one questions Natalie and I get from farmers around carbon credits is like, I don't understand it. Like, how do I do this? Where do I go to sell them? Like, there's so many more questions than answers at this point. So to hear like a company like Case IH getting behind it and really like trying to help move that dialogue forward and be like pro farmer in that stance, I think is a positive and it's a place we need to be because it is an entirely new like, you know, area of agriculture that we're just getting into. And so it's exciting to hear there's research that you guys are teaming up with universities and moving that needle forward. So I've always heard or I read an article that stuck with me that there are five principles to soil health. I don't know if we'll go through all of them, but one of them is minimal soil disturbance. So I thought we could spend a little bit of time talking about no tillage. Yes. So. Maybe we could start with the like the importance of it or the benefits of. So I think that that that's a good. Yeah, I can do that. OK. So as far as I'd say that the conservation tillage side of things, the no till or minimal tillage, which encompasses strip tillage and reduced tillage like vertical tillage. Those are options that you can utilize. And again, I think it has so much to do with the mindset of the grower and that mindset's coming from their ground, their farms, because a particular field can even be different because soil is so dynamic. But the goal with with no till or reduced till is to maintain as much as that residue as possible to maintain and make sure that we're maintaining or growing that soil organic matter that we discussed previously. So that's kind of the goal there, because, again, soil organic matter has such a big impact on the water holding capacity, the water infiltration, reducing the runoff. Those are why you would no till. There are situations that if you have the climate that works for that. So if you have a milder winter or no winter at all, that's when no till is probably going to work really well for you because you won't have all this residue that's accumulated over winter or didn't break down over winter. And it's accumulated from the fall's harvest year after year if you try to go no till. Anyway, if you're warmer, you're going to have that residue. It'll break down no problem. And then you're going to have a warm, dry condition to plant into. So no till, I think, is going to be working in a lot of situations and will be valuable. Thinking about the carbon cycling, the natural cycle of the carbon, the natural occurrence of the carbon cycle is, it's going to change. Even if you're a no till during the year when it warms up, you are going to have decomposition and loss of carbon, even in no till situations. And if you're growing a crop on that, you're removing more carbon. So you could actually lose carbon in a no till situation. So it's not just always going to be perfect. So that's where some people want you to not just only no till, but also incorporate cover crop in that to make sure you're putting enough back out there. But that's because potentially you could be yielding a little less if you're a no till. Not all the time. But if you yield less, you're also producing less residue material to put back. So it's quite complicated there. But no till is definitely an option, not for everybody. And that's where other options come in. So say you're in a condition where you do have, it's a little bit too tight of a weather window for planting. It's a little too wet, a little too cold. But you want to maintain as much residue as possible because, you know, you've got some problem areas that are highly erodible. That's where you could potentially incorporate either strip tillage where you only just till strips of your field. So you're leaving so much of it, no till. And then so much of it just tilled right where you're going to plant the seed. So that's going to be the warm and dry part of it. So you could try that option or you could do reduced tillage from a vertical tillage perspective. It's a vertical till. It's really unique where it's a blade that is running with the direction of travel. So it is just like putting a little slot through the residue, like just doing a little slicing and dicing and then making just a little slot, not very deep in the soil. So that way you could potentially get a little warming up of the soil. And then you're definitely trying to kind of potentially break down the residue a little bit faster. And that's definitely an option if you want to go the reduced tillage route to maintain as much as possible. Yeah. So out in New Mexico, we do minimal till is what I would say. And then we double crop, but we've kind of converted. So double cropping is where we plant, obviously, something in the summer for people who don't know. And then something in the winter as well, because we're warm enough to do that. And we've kind of converted some of our winter to a little bit more cover crop style and then the minimal till. And we were working with Case IH on some new equipment. And one of the things that I found really exciting in this space as far as equipment and technology goes is that our farmer was talking about how for cover crops, the seeds are different sizes because it's a blend of a whole bunch of different seeds that we're planting. And the seeds would kind of sort themselves out. So you would have to do two passes over the field with equipment in order to plant like two different types of seeds and like two different types of grasses. And, you know, to really implement those cover crops and Case, the new equipment had it so that you could better like blend those seeds and better do cover crops with a single pass of equipment over fields, which obviously saves tons of fuel, tons of time for the farmer, like less soil disturbance. And I just found that really interesting of being able, like I had never thought about how like Case plays into our sustainability story, but like by improving equipment and gearing it towards sustainable practices and regenerative ag practices, we can be like moving our entire farm forward much quicker than we would have like kind of by ourselves. Yeah, I love that. And that's something we try to keep an eye on a situation like that, where for the equipment side, that's probably something we can easily do. We just need to listen to our farmers. And that's what we try to do to incorporate those practices. Something else that we've recently incorporated is a new vertical tillage or minimal till option. And that's our 435VT flex. And so it actually goes from that true vertical tillage where it's the most minimal till possible, the least intense, zero degrees blade wise, but it can go clear up to 12 degrees. So it can be more aggressive in areas that need it. So say you have a field that's not flat. Say it's got slopes and areas that could be highly erodible compared to areas that are really high yielding, have a ton of residue that can be managed completely differently than that on the slope. We now have a tool that is completely flexible and versatile. And it can actually change on the go where exactly you need to run these different intensities of tillage. And I think that's going to be a big, big game changer too. I'm hoping that we get more of the smart tillage incorporated. We do have that on quite a bit of our equipment where it has the automated tillage, which we call it AFS soil command, where you can actually control it from the cab. You can definitely change the angle with the 435VT flex, but I want more options too. But anyway, I think that's going to be a really good new feature that we've got out on the market too. So Tara and I were just on a podcast and we were talking about how technology plays such an important role in reducing our carbon footprint and making us more sustainable as an industry. But yet there is consumer, I don't want to say like fear, but just question often a time when technology is incorporated into agriculture in ways like this. And I just, it always just kind of frustrates me a little bit because I mean, just hearing you talk about, again, it's a great example of what we can do to be more sustainable on our individual operations that we wouldn't be able to without technology. So I think a big thing I really needs to work on is like making the technology portion, you know, I don't know, more integrated in or more. Yeah, from a consumer standpoint. And that's what a lot of my research, I have been able to get the ground truthing done. So then I can go and share with farmers what the technology can actually do for them, the value of it. So with one of our VT tools, I was actually able to take our technology and I created a tillage prescription. So that's something completely new. I mean, this is tillage is the very last thing to get into technology and become high tech and become smart tillage. So what we were doing with that was it's now automated so you can change the depth on the go, the depth of the tool, which is also a way to change the intensity of the tillage. The shallower you go, the less you're doing, disturbing, the deeper would be more disturbance. And so I'm now able to create a tillage prescription and plug it in there. And now it can be a peace of mind for a grower that it's going to be doing exactly what it needs to do, where it needs to do it, no matter who is operating. So if you've got that slope that's highly erodible, you can set all of that to zero degrees, no penetration. You're just going to go over the top of that with your tillage tool and then right where you need it, it's going to penetrate deeper because of the prescription and the site-specific tillage. So that's research that I've gotten to do. And I actually got to share that the zero inches where we needed to maintain as much residue as possible because it was more highly erodible. It actually increased our residue coverage. So that was like, I was like, why did, what is going on? This is crazy. But it's because it was actually knocking down the residue, the stalks. And so it was maintaining the roots. It was intact, but it was knocking it over. And so less rain and wind could actually get to it. And so, you know, rain detaching soil, that is the definition of erosion. And so we were helping prevent that just by altering the practice. So anyway, yeah, incorporating technology has been really cool. And I think from our side of it or what I get to do is kind of test it and then share it. And that's the biggest thing is we get a lot of hesitation because technology can be intimidating. And so we want to try to share the value of it as much as possible. And I'm like, if I can figure it out, you can figure it out. If I can do it, anybody can do it. We're good. Seriously, I'm making the prescriptions, but that's just based off of a topography map and our yields. And that's something we can either teach you to do or we'll do it with you or for you. One of the things that in this conversation I find just fascinating, and we say it a lot, is, you know, ag is just vastly different from place to place. And I feel like that's one of the benefits of technology is being able to customize. Like I love that you said prescription because, you know, every area is going to be a little bit different. And so being able to just customize what that farmer needs and then set the equipment up to meet those needs. I think that while Natalie and I are like thousands of miles apart, we're actually both kind of in really sandy climates or sandy soils with low organic matter going back to the beginning. And so, you know, what our needs are going to be on our, you know, either rangeland like Natalie or crops in New Mexico, it's going to be vastly different than someone say in Illinois or Ohio or anywhere else in the country. And so just being able to really tailor in those needs, I think is like at the root of regenerative ag. Like when we talk about regenerative ag and all these buzzwords that we're using, the root is like doing what's best for your soil in your location and your state. Well, and even going back to when you were talking about like the different forms of, or I guess the scales of, you know, till, no till, minimal till. I love that you looped into the conversation about how it's like a producer's choice. And that may even vary, you know, not just from operation to operation of what will be best and most sustainable, but even from like field to field on that operation. I know we were a no till operation, but we had to, we tilled last summer for one of our fields because we absolutely had to, it needed it. And so I think, again, going back to this spectrum of what regenerative ag is, and even within that, like the spectrum of what no till is to tillage and where we fall on that. And the spectrum of like cover crops and all of these different things, because it's not just a one size fit all for every single producer. Yeah. Similar for us, we harvest all silage since we're dairy cows. And so there is a need for tillage sometimes because of silage, like it's completely different than when you harvest it to grain. And I think sometimes even those like conversations are lost within ag that people, you get like so focused on like your style of farming and you're like, no, this, you know, this is how it should be. And it's like so important to remember that everybody's going to have like what degree they're able to implement on their farm and what their goals are. Everyone's goals are different. Because there's a lot of, I mean, just when I was in my graduate work, just taking courses and soil courses, they really hesitate to even talk about tillage. Like, oh, it's going to stop quickly because that's just not right. But the thing is, there's a lot of situations where it has to be incorporated because it's helping you set the stage on certain things, or it's alleviating compaction that's occurred, or it just needs a reset. There's so many different things that it's going to be happening. So we want to make sure that we can give the right method and make sure that it's going to be having the lowest, any type of impact, the lowest, any type of negative impact that could occur, that it's going to make sure that you can manage it properly. But we do have all kinds of options. And so we talked about the no-till and conservation till side of it. And we also have on the other side of that, where you have really cold and wet climates or like heavier soil. So it sounds like you guys are not in that situation. We are not in that category. If you want to send some rain our way, we will take it, okay? We'll take your organic matter and your rain any day of the week. Yeah, and that's because you guys, in that warmer situation, you're breaking down the material so fast. So you do probably have much lower soil organic matter. It's just a completely different type of soil. But where you do have a heavier soil and higher organic matter, that is going to give a completely different scenario for a grower, where they might need to be managing crop residue and really burying it, incorporating it. Or maybe they've got, maybe they yielded really high and they have a bunch of tire tracks out there from the grain car to the combine that needs to be hit somehow. Whether it's like if their option is to use tillage, there's those options as well. And that's also something that we've incorporated technology into because, well, there's, compaction can have an impact of 20 to, 10 to 20% on your grain yield. And the following year, and that's from scientific literature currently out there by universities. So you can have this 10 to 20% impact based off of compaction. So our goal with our technology was to try to be more productive. So in those areas that are cold and wet and have really tight weather windows in both the fall and the spring, allowing them to get to more acres faster. And so that's something that we did do research on. We've looked at our 875 disc ripper, which actually has this shank and has this point that is supposed to go underneath the compaction layer to help bust it out and alleviate the compaction. That's the goal with the tool. But currently, farmers, or traditionally, they'd be sending it out to the field, picking a really deep depth where they think the layer is at, and running it the same depth across the entire field. But now we can run site-specific, and we can just run as deep as we need to. And so when you're doing that, you're varying the depth, and so you're going across that field, and now you can go faster through areas. You're running shallower. You can actually go faster, but you're going to be reducing the amount of horsepower needed. So you're going to reduce the fuel cost and the fuel use, which is always a positive. So we're able to do all that just with the prescription and being able to be site-specific. And we actually saw some really good responses, even in yield, just being site-specific like that. But anyway, all together, we just try to be whatever – all these different mindsets, we want to make sure we're offering something that will work, even when you have the heavy residue or the compaction side of it. You talking about the size of the equipment has – I just – I feel like when we were in Puerto Rico at the American Farm Bureau and you guys had a booth set up with your equipment in site, I feel like the scale of farm equipment now is, like, staggering. Like, we have some big pieces of farm equipment nowadays. It's, like, amazing the ground that they can cover and what they can do and what they can get done. And this goes back to Natalie and I. Natalie watches Clarkson Farm, and he got, like, a really big tractor in his show. And I don't know. It just reminds me of that. But it's just – it really is crazy, the magnitude of what these farm equipment can do, how the technology is just so advanced. I think it would really surprise people if they could get inside of a tractor or any piece of farm equipment, like, just what it's able to do nowadays. Right. It always cracks me up, though, because when you get inside there, it's, like, there are, like, 15 monitors and all these buttons, but then it's, like, a rabbit and a bunny or a turtle and a bunny is the throttle. It's, like, at the core, it's so simple in some areas and so complicated in some areas within, like, a tractor cab. Yeah, it's self-driving, but you still say whether you want bunny speed or turtle speed. Yeah, universal. You mentioned the size. Like, last spring, I did a competitive benchmarking, and we were working with 60-foot wide field cultivators, which is just – this is crazy to me. Like, I typically utilize, like, a 25-footer when that's good. But, yeah, we're using things that are 65-foot wide, and these farmers are going 10 miles per hour with that. So, yeah, it's got quite some skill to it. Big equipment, big tractors, big price tag, too. But that's something – another side of it. Just lots to invest and make the right decision on what equipment, too. But lots to do on the farm. Yeah, that price tag. I think that one of the things – anytime anyone implements anything sustainability-wise, there is cost associated with implementing new technology. And I think one of the important things that putting farmers at ease is, like, the research behind it, right? Like, knowing that this has actually been studied. I think that sometimes there is different, you know, sustainability products out there. And if they don't have the research to back them up and farmers ultimately end up, like, investing them and it doesn't work out, like, that's extremely costly. And so just to know, you know, that so much is going on. You guys are working with universities and really, like, diving into these topics so that it's based on sound science so that when somebody makes an investment, this is going to be a long-term investment that is good for their business, good for their bottom line, and good for the environment versus, you know, something that's just going to be, like, a short-term gain or – and then ultimately not. Because I think with sustainability, we have to think so many years out ahead of where we're at just right now. You know, it can't be just thinking about the next year or two. It's really thinking in, like, five and ten years out almost at this point. Yes, we don't want to have any type of – we don't want it to be just a marketing gimmick type of situation. We put the logo agronomic design on quite a bit of our equipment, and that's because we have an agronomy team that goes out and we agronomically validate the equipment. And we're creating this proof that then we can – we're proving so many different components of our equipment, especially the ground-engaging parts of it and then the technology side of it. But then we're able to then take that proof and then share it and make sure that the farmer – or we just try to make the farmer comfortable with making these decisions because it is a very large investment. But, yeah, we take it very seriously because that's why I have a job is I get to do that. I get to be behind the scenes and do the agronomic side of it and really prove and validate to make sure that it's doing what the grower expects it to be doing. Yeah, I think that's a big part, it seems like, of your guys' business strategy is having the farmer input, making sure that farmers are at the table, like, that you know what they want, you validated it for them. So I think that part of your job seems really interesting and extremely valuable for the farmers that are purchasing your products. I definitely love it. I love it. I love research. So this word has come up a couple different times in conversation, but maybe we could go just for a few minutes, like, a layer deeper on cover crops, kind of their role, why they're important just from an agronomist standpoint. Yes. So cover crops, very important. I kind of think of it like a soil blanket. I don't know if everybody thinks of it like that, but I like it. Sounds so snuggly and warm. Yeah. Cozying up with our soil. Protecting the soil. But I think a big part of it is about reducing erosion. So making sure if we have, if we're doing row crops and you harvest, then you're, you know, you'd be leaving that soil fallow. So incorporation of cover crops is a big part of that so that we can always have something there to have on the surface of the soil, to cover it, to protect it, because soil erosion is, again, when, when you have detachment of the soil from rain or wind. So cover crops are important there, protecting the soil. It can also, when you terminate it, it's going to be releasing nutrients back into it. So it's part of nutrient cycling. It's also got that carbon in it. It's more carbon material that you'd be putting back out there to make sure it stays on your, in your soil. So all part of the carbon cycle too. I will say that, or I did mention that where we're, we've done research for the past several years out of our innovation group, looking at all different kinds of species of cover crops, different species, different termination timings. And then also, yeah, a strip tilling into it. So kind of a different method because some growers, they'll just plant right into it. And that can have quite an impact on your plants. Because if you, if you're encountering kind of different microclimates with this seed compared to this seed, like if they got hung up on residue and it's shallower, it's going to potentially be being exposed to warmer, drier conditions than a seed that got to the proper depth, and it's going to get more moisture and it might be wetter. So these two seeds, particularly, especially when you're dealing with more residue like that, can really have an impact. Because if this guy comes up, it's just like within a day, you can have on a plant to plant basis, like a 15 to 20% difference in yield just by that plant coming up a day later. And so if that happens across your whole field, that can cause an issue with your overall yield potential. So anyway, that's why we're doing a ton of research on the cover crop side of it to learn, okay, well, what happens if we terminate now and we plant it this way? What if we till it this way and we plant it in here? So we're looking at all these different practices that farmers are doing to make sure we can get the values behind all that. As you're talking about each of the seeds, like how different, like there's a microclimate, like within, you know, a couple of inches of each other, a seed being planted. It reminds me of that quote that's like, we owe our entire existence to six inches of topsoil. Like everything in our world is what we can grow in that like topsoil and how those little tiny seeds, you know, are able to thrive or not in our topsoil. I love that. That quote. So, yeah, because that's exactly what we've actually, we've done research, surprise, surprise. We've done more research and we actually looked at plants that came up at different times. We implemented some different practices. We try to create like this really smooth, kind of a perfect seedbed situation compared to a really rough seedbed situation with big clods and big air pockets, kind of residue all over the place. And we planted into that and we looked at the impact on like the plant stand itself and all along those lines. Basically, you've got issues when you deal with that when you're planting it. Like we mentioned, the seeding depth can have a big impact. It can impact that microclimate. But it can also be if you have a clod here and you're planting it, it's going to be exposed to kind of an air pocket and not get soil all the way around it. And that can have a negative impact, especially when it's the seed is trying to imbibe water, the moisture right when it's it needs to germinate. That can be where you start getting behind immediately. You are immediately cutting the trajectory of your yield potential right from the get go. So anyway, we've done research where we looked at plants that were different growth stages. So we went out pretty early and we looked at plants that were average for the for the for the field and we marked those plants. And then we marked plants that were one leaf stage or growth stage behind. And then we marked plants that were two leaf stage or growth stage behind their neighbors. And then we followed that all the way to grain yields. And we looked at, OK, so how much of an impact of this poor seed that have? And what we saw was on an individual plant basis. So compared to its neighbor, it had lost if it was one leaf stage behind, it had lost 50 percent of its yield potential. And then if it was two leaf stage behind, it lost 78 percent. So really precise research, but it's like 80 percent. Yeah. And so you're losing that just by basically not not setting the stage. And so if you can try to complement your planter as best as you can, we're going to advise that in basically every situation because of that impact. That is an individual plant basis. So obviously a farmer is going to care about an acre across the field. But if you can minimize that variability, it's going to be really helpful. And that's why we want to make sure that we're setting our tillage properly to give you the best seed bed. But then we're also setting the planter properly to make sure it's this whole the system is working the best it can. Awesome. Thank you for sharing that. So I think it's safe to say that research is one of your favorite things. Dr. Brian, maybe we want to take a second and maybe it's one you've already talked about. You want to retalk about it or maybe it's not. But maybe just share like something, you know, case is doing research into right now that's exciting or one, you know, that you're personally excited about or something on the horizon or just kind of, you know, something you want to share about case and research currently. Yeah, I can do that. Yeah. So. So. So. So we've done some research with our field cultivator, so we just we're talking about making sure we're setting the stage. And one of our tools is primarily only used in the springtime right before planting. And that's our field cultivator, our Tiger Mate 255. And so that tool is what is going to create. We want it to create the best smooth seed bed. It's going to be level. It's going to have not very many large clods. And you're going to plant into that and it's going to be complementing your planter. So what we did was we had it equipped with AFS soil command, which is where we have the automated tillage. So, again, where you can control it from the cab. But it also has an industry exclusive technology, which is seed bed sense. So what seed bed sense is, it's actually detecting the quality of the seed bed that's being produced as it's being produced. So you're getting immediate feedback as well as having it log for you to check out later if you needed to. But it's giving you this feedback on the movement of your your sweep or what's actually ground engaging. So if it was if it had more movement, it was tripping a bunch, then you'd be creating a really rough seed bed floor. And that's what you'd be planting into and possibly impacting the consistency of your seeding depth. So what we did was we took this field cultivator. We went through a field and we got all this feedback. We didn't make any adjustments. We just got feedback of if it was good, moderate or poor seed bed qualities that were being produced. And then we planted into that and we looked at the impact on the planter performance and the plants themselves and final grain yields. And what we saw was that where we detected a poor quality seed bed, we also had poor planter performance and lower grain yield. And then the opposite was true where we saw the good, the best quality seed bed. We had the best planter performance and the highest yields. It was actually a 12 bushel yield swing in our situation. So it was just it was really interesting to see that just how important it can be to make sure you're setting the stage. And so and that that 12 bushel yield swing with with the technology that only we offer is pretty like, OK, how can we use that? Something you can adjust like on the go, but also it's mapping it. So like say you had an area that was really rough. You could potentially go back out to that particular area and hit it again. Or you could alter your planter settings. Maybe you need to be more aggressive with your row cleaners in those areas where it was rougher. So we have all kinds of ideas to give our growers. But it's just we're trying to incorporate more and more technology that we can so they can just have as much knowledge as they can before they go into planting into it. I feel like Tara and I are a terrible audience for you because you're using these like large percentages. And we're just like watching. And these big numbers and bushels. And I know I know it's important. And like I can grasp the general consensus of it. But I feel like if you had a true farmer here, they'd be like, what? No way. Like they'd be so. But I'm kind of like, yeah, bushels. OK, like that's what we feed. We're feeding cows. We're going to feed a lot of cows. That's what Natalie and I are thinking. No, I feel like actually this reminds me of we had an advocacy episode with Jack Bobo. And he said that sustainability is like continuing to actually do some of the things we already are implementing the technology we're already working on, like implementing that. And you're talking. It just made me keep thinking that like we are advancing technology so quickly. Like I really think we're going to solve so many of our climate like issues by agriculture moving forward, like moving in these directions of just being so precise, being able to maximize, you know, soil health, organic matter, being able to maximize yields like it's incredible what we've been able to do and like where we're headed. I think that's what I'm leaving this conversation with is just being really excited about the future technology in farming and agronomy. I agree. I think the technology is it's just going so fast and the incorporation of it. I love it. And like you said, the precision of it, that's what's going to be really helpful with the sustainable aspect. So like being able to maybe have cover crops and precise put this strips, your strip till right here and precisely place your fertilizer into that strip and plant the seed right on top of that. That's everything that technology can do for you and being able to be really precise about it. That's that's what's going to be important to really just have a really big impact sustainably for our future. Awesome. Well, thank you so much for sharing today. We took you over time, but I appreciate you sticking around and sharing so much about what you are doing, the work that you're doing, the research and what Case IH is doing. So thank you for joining us today. Thank you for having me. Yeah. Thanks again to Case IH for sponsoring this episode and for Dr. Brian for joining us and for you guys for listening to Discover Ag, where every Thursday we cover the top three trending topics you need to know in the ag and food space. If you enjoyed today's episode, please be sure to tell a friend to listen, share it to your social channels or take a second to leave us a review in the podcasting app. If you want more during the week, you can always follow us on our Instagram at discoverag underscore or our personal channels at Natalie Kovorek at Tara Vander Dusen, as well as our YouTube Discover Ag, the podcast. See you guys next Thursday.