Mobile Welding Repair: Fixing a Broken Tractor Bucket Hook in the Field (No Shop Needed!) DP200
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gJNjgQCbSsw
Entertainment
 So this is what we got today guys. Nice, simple outside job. Beautiful temperature, about 68 degrees right here on the water on a lake. Customer just needs a hook welded onto the bucket of their John Deere 855. He said he has a hook with him and he's on his way here but somebody's welded that one on over there. They make actual hooks, bucket hooks that are cut like lengthwise, made for this. Hopefully that's what he has because you can get a lot more weld on him as well. But piece of cake. Just going to grind this down, clean it all back up, get it down to bright shiny metal. You can see my truck's like right here. I don't even have to pull the welder out of the truck. It's going to be super easy. What I do is I like to keep all my stuff set in this. I just unclip that, unclip that and then pull this whole thing right to the back and I got all my stuff. And I keep my my portable welder's right inside the truck. This is kind of a nice simple one right on the water. If you guys remember earlier this summer, I did a job, same thing on this lake. It was welding up a bunch of aluminum dock and I'll have a link to that video down below as well. All right, so I got the camera strapped on my chest. You guys can see what I'm doing. That's my point of view. One of the first things I want to do is start protecting stuff that we can protect, which is going to be these, you know, hydraulic lines here, these hydraulics. We don't want to get a spark or a weld spatter on those because that'll screw those all up. So we'll drape a welding blanket on it to protect them. There we go. So this is the hook that broke off from it and he said he had the hook. I was thinking maybe it was one of the ones that you just normally buy and weld on, but this is what he has. And I'm going to have to weld it on a little bit further back than how the other one is. I explained to him that I can't just weld this, like key it back into what was already there. It's going to have to go back a little bit further so I can get some weld on both sides of that. So it's not going to quite be even and match with how that one is, which he said he was fine. So I'm just going to clean this up and get ready to weld it. And just as a precaution, guys, I had him disconnect the bucket fully from the machine and disconnect the lines just in case because I didn't want to end up taking a chance and frying this. So I made sure that, you know, because I think these have a stainless reinforcement inside these lines. So even if you disconnect the bucket from the machine, it still could ground through the hydraulic lines. So I've made sure now there's no metal touching this bucket of the tractor just because I don't want to take a chance and fry any of the electronics. It's an older tractor, so it's doubtful that that would be a problem, but you're better off if you can avoid it and just disconnect it, you're better off. This is like, weld like a flat on this to help get a little more weld on it. So this is kind of nice. I'm liking this. I just spin around and grab my tools right out of the back of my truck. Pretty handy. Pretty handy. All right. Let's see. Choke it. Gas I just turned on. It's going to start kind of hard because I drained, I ran it out of gas last time just so that the carburetor's not sitting with a bunch of gas in that one. It's not being used. This thing runs so nice. I don't know if you can hear me. I'm going to be running Lincoln Electric, 332nd, 7018, and I'm probably going to cap it with 1⁄8 inch, but I'm not sure. We'll see how this welds first. I'm going to be using my Yes Welder DP200. We'll see how this works out. If it ends up giving me some trouble, I brought my Fronius TransTig 210, so we know that this will do it. I'm kind of hoping to use that Yes Welder as my all-around mobile welding source for just small projects, you know. One. Thank you. I got it set for 90 amps. I just turned my amperage up to 100. I got it. I got it. I got it. I got it. I got it. I got it. I got it. I got it. I got it. I got it. I got it. I got it. I got it. I got it. I got it. I got it. I got it. I got it. I got it. So now I run it out of gas. There we go. She is out of gas. That generator runs so good. And I'm very happy how this ran. And switch it to off. There we go. And switch the breaker off. There. That's it. She's hot out here today guys. It warmed up once the sun came out. So I'll take in and we'll chip the last piece of flux off it. And I used what five rods. So there's some junk ones down inside there that you see. Sometimes it's just better off if you end up sticking one. And then you end up breaking the flux back a little ways just to get rid of it. Not worth fighting with. All right. Let's see what we got. I don't see any undercut. I did have a little bit of undercut on the back. If you look right here. There's a couple of ones there, there and there. Just because this bucket is so thin that I was focusing my heat a lot up here and just trying to like wash it down. But that's going to be fine. Yeah, ideally you don't want undercut, but it is what it is. All right. Let's clean this up and we'll take a good look at this one. Oh, the slag peeled off this one. I wish I would have caught it. Sorry about that guys. I hit it with a grinder and the slag just peeled right off it. There. We are done. I'll bring you a little bit closer so you can see it though. All right. And here it is guys. All done. Chipped it all off. Cleaned it up. And we'll be all ready for him to use it next. And he's gone. So I just left him a little business card on his bucket. It's getting to be a warm one now. I want to thank you guys for watching. Thank you guys for tuning in. If this is something that you like, please don't forget to rate, comment and subscribe. New videos every Friday. Take care guys. See ya. See ya. See ya. See ya. See ya. See ya. See ya.