Why JM Fortier Uses a BCS Two-Wheel Tractor in his Market Garden
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gl_cOxfXzD4
Education
 Hi my name is JM Fortier and I'm a market gardener. I've been farming professionally for more than a decade on an acre and a half plot using as my main and only power unit a two-wheel tractor made by BCS. Today I'm here to introduce the tool to you guys and showing you some of the equipments, how they run, how they work best and giving you some tips about them and hopefully you guys can learn something out of it. The main feature of this tool is that when one power unit I'm able to accomplish many different tasks on the farm. One of the main reasons also why I think this tool is so awesome is because not only is it versatile and rugged it also is tailor-made to work on a permanent bed setup. We don't rely on plows or other heavy dirt moving machines we only rely on the BCS and some hand tools to finally prepare seed beds and do other chores on the farm like raise these beds and the whole concept behind that is to not overwork the soil. And so there's a place for all of these tools in my toolbox and today I'll be showing you how to work with these tools. One of the things that I like the most about the BCS is that all the tools that I wanted to use when I started market gardening the Harrow, the flail mower and even the rotor tiller, they're all standardized to 30 inch. Tailor-made for what we want to do here on the farm. One of the first things that comes to my mind talking about the BCS is the Honda engine. So I'm, I've been using the 853 model for all these years and so I'm not a mechanic, I'm not an engineer, I'm a farmer but I've never had any problems with these Honda engines. So they're professionally built, they're the commercial grade and they're really powerful. So I've never had a problem with that and if ever I do have a problem I know that I could be easily serviced in a small engine repair shop. One other thing that I really appreciate is that on the BCS there's no chain or there's no belt. So all the power comes from the engine, goes through the clutch directly to the implement that you're trying to use and so when you're using it at full throttle and you're clutching you don't even have a drop of power and again through all these years that I've been using this I've never ever ever had a problem with the transmission of the machine. So it's really rugged and well built. And the other thing that is really appreciable about the tool is that there's the handlebars can be reversed to operate the machine with front loaded tools or back mounted tools. So reversing the handlebars is pretty straightforward. You'll just pop out these these rods, squeeze the lever and turn it 180 degree. I'll put these rods back in. and adjust everything to my height and then we would be good to go.