7 major benefits of practicing mixed farming
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GnUK09L8Flc
People & Blogs
 Mixed farming involves growing crops and raising livestock. Livestock is where you raise maybe sheep, when you raise cows, when you raise your rabbits. So it also focuses on raising livestock on the same piece of land in a sustainable and integrated approach to agriculture. There is even risky diversification. Mixed farming reduces the risk of total loss from market fluctuations, pests or diseases of one type of farming fields and other can provide same income. Hello my people, welcome back to my channel. If you are new, consider subscribing. Hit that bell button so that you will be notified for every video that we shall be posting here on our channel. Today we are going to be looking at the benefits of practicing mixed farming. Mixed farming is one of the most profitable farming you can practice you as a farmer in order to come out with different crops, to come out with different breeds of cattle, to come out with different breeds of goats, to come out with different breeds of sheep. So in today's video we shall be sharing those advantages because on mixed farming you will be growing different crops, rearing animals because mixed farming also involves livestock farming, even poultry, you can do poultry with livestock farming, growing crops without wasting time. Let's go into that one. Improve the food security. Improve the food security. By producing both plant and animal products, mixed farming supports diversified diet, improving food security for the farming households and the community. With mixed farming helps the family helps the family to gain more food when it comes to storing food and even improve the diet because you will be benefiting from different crops, beans, cassava, or plant, corn. So you will be having different diets per day and also the community will benefit from meat. Through practicing mixed farming there is what we call sustainable agriculture. There is continuous farming. When you have different crops, you will be getting income. When you have different crops, you will be getting income from beans, you will be able to get corn. When corn is failing, you will be able to get income from sweet potatoes as long as you have the large gardens where you are practicing this farm. When you have goats and cows, if it fails, if it does not do well on cows, then you will be able to get in goat farming. So that is the good process of mixed farming. It is a better for every farmer who have big land to practice such method of mixed farming. It is one of the best farming that I like me as a farmer. Continuous income. With both crops, production and livestock farming, farmers can have more consistent income throughout the year as different products are harvested or sold at different times. Each crop has grown crops. Each crop has grown crops. Each crop has grown crops. You will find that in the case of corn, they will take around 4 months to harvest. In the case of beans, you will find that they can actually take 2 months and when it comes to cassava for them, they will be able to take around 1 year but others take 6-7-8 months. There is job creation. When you do mixed farming, make sure that you need to hire people. People who are willing to do the particular work on your farm because you are rearing the goats, you have the cows. You also have, maybe you are planting cassava. So you cannot work on those different gardens and even at the same time working on cows and goats individually. No. You need to have people who can help you on that process. To help you in labour. And this mainly works when you are doing mixed farming. Not only even if you have, even if you have the livestock farming alone, you need to hire people because you cannot do alone when you have over 10 cows on your farm. Not only if you have the cows on your farm. And this one will bring in some money to people to run their basic needs in life, especially for those ones who you are hiring. Number 5. Number 6. Economic efficiency. Integrated farming can lower production costs by utilizing resources efficiently, reducing the need of external inputs and enhancing the overall profitability of the farm. Finally, mixed farming supports ecological balance, economic stability and sustainable agricultural practice in a given area. And this will help to boost agriculture in the country, not only in the country, but even providing more food for the people in the community and also the owner. Number 6. at the low price because in business we expect a price fluctuation if the customers are not performing well on the market maybe their price is low then you have to provide the cons and the cons for them you find that their price is high and when the customer their price is low so you will have focus on customers because it's the one which has the high price so this is that market demand so now if you have grown one type of crop then you you'll be unable to catch up with the price in the market or where you are selling your goods in large numbers different crops will have their market season we find that even mangoes will also have their season or when it comes to selling and buying even making more products we have got you can make juice from mangoes you can make a lot of juice from mangoes so this helped the farmer to continuously get enough income but not focusing on one type of crop year up to year so this is self-reported improvement yeah there is soil fertility improvement when you apply this natural fertilizers the organic manure from the livestock farm livestock farm it can be the cow dunks can be maybe you're rearing chickens you have your poultry farm also you bring those chicken droppings in your garden to act as fertilizers and this will help you to avoid the synthetic fertilizers these chemical fertilizers that can that can bring some challenges on your farm because with synthetic fertilizers or these artificial fertilizers for them you find that they work for only one season but with these organic fertilizers this is the one which is the one which is natural for them they will be sustainable they will be there for a long time when you apply in your garden and this improves the soil quality and once they improve the soil quality you know that you will be having enough yields as long as you are planting the crops in your garden mixed farming mixed farming involves growing crops and raising livestock livestock livestock livestock where you are maybe sheep when you are cows when you are rabbits so it also focuses on raising livestock on the same piece of land in a sustainable and integrated approach to agriculture there is even risk diversification mixed farming reduces the risk of total loss from market fluctuation pests or diseases of one type of farming fields on other can provide same income that is the end of our video can lay if you are new subscribe hit the bell button share and comment i salute you guys have a perfect day bye bye you