The Role of Farms in Decentralized Composting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPjtlJLPYj4
Education
 Linda Bilson- Hello folks and welcome to today's webinar, The Role of Farms in Decentralized Composting. I'm Linda Bilson-Brolis of the Institute for Local Self-Reliance's Composting for Community Initiative and we're your hosts for this webinar. But also joining me now is my colleague at ILSR, Megan Matthews. She'll be helping us keep the webinar running smoothly. Say hi Megan. Megan Matthews- Hi everybody, welcome. Linda Bilson- Awesome. All right. While we're waiting for folks to finish joining, are you all hearing that feedback? I'm going to go ahead and turn off my video just in case. Linda Bilson- Okay. Linda Bilson- Okay. Linda Bilson- So, for those of you that aren't familiar with our work, ILSR's Composting for Community Initiative is advancing composting to reduce waste, enhance local soils, create community development opportunities, and to protect the climate. Linda Bilson- Our focus is to catalyze distributed food waste composting options that include home, community, and on-farm scales. Linda Bilson- And we work to promote locally based composting in a number of different ways. Linda Bilson- We convene a national community composter coalition and host national cultivating community composting forums. Linda Bilson- We work one-on-one with communities through technical assistance and policy support. Linda Bilson- We produce reports, infographics, and various templates for composting sites. Linda Bilson- We host regular webinars and even a podcast. Linda Bilson- We also have a map that shows initiatives around the US and the policies and programs that are advancing composting at this scale. Linda Bilson- And Megan will be adding some links to the chat for you to check some of that out. Linda Bilson- But you can also find all of these resources on our website. Linda Bilson- If you go to ilisr.org forward slash composting, you'll see a composting resources drop down menu on the right hand side of the screen. Linda Bilson- And from there you can select reports, podcasts, webinars, and more. Linda Bilson- We also offer technical training through our neighborhood soil rebuilders composter training Linda Bilson- program. Linda Bilson- And for anyone that's interested in more training on the composting science, Linda Bilson- we released a self-paced online community composting 101 certificate course. Linda Bilson- We released that earlier this year. Linda Bilson- The course covers composting fundamentals and the ins and outs of starting a community-based composting project. Linda Bilson- So if you're interested, check it out there. Linda Bilson- This webinar series is being brought to you through our involvement with the Million Acre Challenge of which ILSR is a founding member. Linda Bilson- The Million Acre Challenge is a collaborative project that is supporting farmers in implementing healthy soils practices and regenerative agriculture on 1 million acres of farmland in Maryland and the Chesapeake region by 2030. Linda Bilson- Healthy soils practices, including the skillful production and use of compost on farms, have tremendous potential to improve farm resilience and profitability while also providing critical ecosystem services at a crucial time for our farms and our planet. Linda Bilson- To learn more about this project, check out their website. Linda Bilson- And now let's get to know each other with a few interactive polls. Linda Bilson- Alrighty. Linda Bilson- So first question, where are you participating from? Linda Bilson- Select one of the following. Linda Bilson- Northeastern US, Southern US, Midwestern US, Western US, or outside the US. Linda Bilson- All right. Linda Bilson- And let's see the results. Linda Bilson- So as usual, majority from the Northeastern US, but we got a good showing from the Midwestern US and even good representation from other parts of the US and outside. Linda Bilson- So welcome to everyone. Linda Bilson- Let's go to the next poll. Linda Bilson- What best describes your affiliation? Linda Bilson- Select one of the following. Linda Bilson- Are you a farmer, a composter, someone who represents a government? Linda Bilson- Are you a researcher, farm service provider, or a nonprofit? Linda Bilson- Or are you in a different business? Linda Bilson- Just a few more seconds. Linda Bilson- All right, let's check it out. Linda Bilson- So very nice, even mix of farmer, composter, a little head, a lead to the government folks and a researcher, farm service provider, and nonprofit. Linda Bilson- I know that's a big category and other business. Linda Bilson- So welcome to you all. Linda Bilson- And the final poll that we'll do. Linda Bilson- Are you currently involved in composting or supporting composting in your work? Linda Bilson- And the second answer is supposed to be no, not now. Linda Bilson- Okay, just a couple more seconds. Linda Bilson- Great, let's check it out. Linda Bilson- So vast majority are already either composting or involved with composting. Linda Bilson- So welcome to you all. Linda Bilson- And for those that are not currently doing it, hopefully this presentation will inspire you to get involved. Linda Bilson- Awesome. Linda Bilson- Thanks, Megan. Linda Bilson- So now as we hand over controls to our first presenter, a few housekeeping notes. Linda Bilson- Everyone is in listen only mode. Linda Bilson- We will have time at the end of both presentations for questions, but go ahead and enter any questions you have as they come up in the GoToWebinar control panel box on your screen. Linda Bilson- This webinar is being recorded and a copy will be sent to you within the next day or so. Linda Bilson- So no worries there. Linda Bilson- But now it's my pleasure to introduce our first presenter Florian Emlinger. Linda Bilson- He is an agronomist and engineering consultant at Compost Consulting and Design in Austria. Linda Bilson- He's contributed to Austria's decentralized network of 350 or more composting facilities through applied research and the development of organic source separation and composting systems in various communities, including in rural areas that depend on farms. Linda Bilson- Florian coordinated the technical specification and Austria's compost ordinance and represents Austria and the Austrian Compost and Biogas Association in European collaborations. Linda Bilson- Welcome Florian. Take us away. Florian Emlinger- So Linda, thank you very much. I hope you can hear me now. If not, just make a remark or give me a sign. Linda Bilson- It sounds good. Florian Emlinger- Very good. It asked me for a new hardware here, but I will click it off here. And so off we go. I'm very happy to be with you. I would like to be together live with you. Best way on a composting plant or on a farm where we can do the work together. There is a philosopher from the last century and he said a very nice little sentence that the experience of the I, of myself, is only possible in the encountering the you. So encountering the world, if it is a human being, if it is the nature or some part of the nature. Oh, if it is the soil maybe. If it is a compost heap. It is a personal getting personal getting involved really with my knowledge, with all my biography, with all my skills, with all my feelings and my emotions, with all I have learned in my life. In a never ending learning process. As you know, in organic farming. In the very beginning of the installation or founding of the International Federation of the Organic Farming Movement. They implemented this famous sentence. Healthy soil means healthy plants means healthy animals and healthy men. But then it took us some time and still takes our time to define what is health really. And we more and more come to the conclusion that it is a very volatile, very dynamic status. Depending on the circumstances that change from second to second, from minute to minute. So it is a balance we have to achieve. And soil fertility is a constant work to keep the balance on a level in the soil, in the soil plant system. That is providing fertility and health to the entire ecosystem. We are part of it. And then I come to another citation from Johann Wolfgang Goethe. I'm sorry, I don't have citations from American authors here. But he says, this is a translation of myself, but that's not the good one. But the meaning is, as long as you don't have understood the relationship or the dynamic between death and creation, death and growth, death and birth, you're just a dull guest on the dark earth. And this is all about, this is these big microbiological, microbiome, microviral dynamic we are living in. We have been developing out in our evolution that we have to understand deeper and deeper how we are connected. And what is this all about is what we see here. It is the garden. It is the paradise that feeds us. And it feeds us because there is a miracle. There is a miracle. There is a miracle that deep under our feet, there are the rocks. And what is the main property in relation to what we see as a green entity on the top? It is dead. It doesn't create on its own what we call life, what we call development due to the laws which are, you know, introduced into the substance itself. And how does it come that such a, you know, plant on the top, I didn't bring my carrot from the garden now. How does it come that on the mineral ground of our earth, such a beautiful empire of plants that is nourishing us can evolve? How does it work? How does it work? So there must be something that is transforming the dead rock, the scent, the desert into something which is very close to life. And this miracle is mainly, can be named by a keyword and this is symbiosis. And this is a symbiosis between the plant and the mineral empire below the soil. And that is what is in between and that is soil. And this is a habitat for the microbiome, the soil microbiome. Symbiosis is everything. And the plant with the plant exudates nourishes the microbiome in the root sphere by, you know, giving the assimilates, the phytosynthesis products directly into the soil to feed the symbiotic microorganisms in their environment. In order to get them as part of their organ, of the plant organ, as we can name the soil as an organ of the plant, to deliver the minerals and the mineral compounds to nourish again the plant. And it's a big, you know, wonder, miracle of symbiosis and interaction, as we know. Master of symbiosis, just symbolizing this picture. And I say this only because this fungal and bacterial life in soil boosts life on earth tremendously. Plants may absorb, just as one example, 16 times more water and nutrients with the help of the fungal web in the soil. Full stop. It's just one small indication there's much more to say about what has been found out in the recent years. And the key is that these habitat, this environment of the plant is this clay humus complex. Now, I come to the agricultural composting or the cooperation of the on-farm composting, that this process is in the soil. And the idea, the ideas behind creating, maintaining, building up, enhancing soil fertility must be understood by heart, intimately by the farmers who are responsible for the soil for their grandchildren. This is all they have to do. Soil is a common, is not private property. No square meter, no square yard of soil belongs to anybody. It belongs to everybody in order to preserve life on earth. It's a very simple attitude. And what we have to take care about is this humification dynamic in the soil. This is one example from a long-term experiment in Europe showing that aggregate stability by using composted manure over 21 years increases the aggregate stability against conventional, conventional soil management tremendously. And there's also one thing, one motivation I want to mention. They have found out that we have to eat 24 apples to receive the same amount, for instance, of iron. compared to 1914, where it was only necessary for the same amount to eat one apple. So something went wrong in terms of degradation of the quality of food. So hummus management, soil fertility management is a matter of food safety. And therefore what we need is education, education, education. And it is education from the gardeners who are responsible for self-reliant gardens and food provision for the families and the communities. Learning all about the different processes from bokashi, biochar, composting and the composting process itself. And the possibility of variations which are part of our natural bio, I would say biosymbiosis in our environment. And the farmers. Because the farmers are the professionals here. And the concept in Austria was from the very beginning in all provinces. In 1980s, every village is composting farmer. In order to close the organic cycle village by village, city by city. And the farmers. And the farmers have to be motivated, have to understand the maintenance and how to take care about the organic fertility of the soil with the help of compost of the recycled organic matter. They have to understand what can go wrong. In terms of drying out and composting process. They have to understand what kind of materials they have. How to mix it in the right way. To understand that hummus formation on soil and in the natural environment, in the savannah and the woods. On arable land is not the same as in a composting heap. It is an imitation of this process. But it is not the same. They have to learn exactly what time of shredder material they need. Depending on the type of body material they have available. The machines have to develop in a way that the structure, the size, the particle size. And the shredding properties are perfect for composting. And specifically to create the right surfaces for the microbiota. So training, training, training. And to get specifically the hands-on. And I show you only those figures. What we in Austria in these training programs. We have approximately 280 farmers running composting plants. Out of 400 composting plants in total. I will show you the figures later. We tell them something which is very important. And this is a teaching from my experience since the 1980s. This is key. What I have understood of soil formation. There is no stable hummus formation without clay. In a pure silicate sandy situation. Sand desert situation. Without clay formation. You will never achieve a stable hummus layer. Never ever. So you need clay compounds during the composting process. To stabilize the clay hummus complexes you produce. And then we train them even a little bit about indicators. They can easily test on farm. In order to have an idea. Not only by organoleptic observation. But also by some very simple tests on the nitrogen cycle. On pH. On sulfate. Etc. And also crest test. I will show you later. In order to see the stage of maturation. That is very important to achieve a compost. That contributes best possible to hummus buildup in the soil. So this is crest test that is done. Or with other plants also. That is done routinely with the farmers. And also this dilution test with just distilled water. Where you can see from the density. From the transparency. And also from the colors. The maturity of your compost. And the performance of your composting facility. It's just a little bit of training. For a proper interpretation. And then at the very end. What you see here on the top. I can show you here. I guess this is the right one. What you see on the top here. Is the compost car. And the quality seal. The quality certification for composting plants. And some minimum criteria. They have to achieve. To participate. To be awarded for the certification. And what is the solution? It's a good question. And give us a good question. And I can see. If I look at that. This is the right one. What you see on the top here. What you see on the top here. Is the compost car. And the quality seal. The quality certification for composting plants. And some minimum criteria. They have to achieve. In order to participate. To be awarded for the certification. And what is this? And what is it? Sorry, sorry, sorry, sorry, sorry. Now it's going on. Now I come to collection. What is very important if you receive not only green waste and manure from the environment, but also kitchen waste from households and from restaurants, is the issue of impurities. Big problems in cities. But it very much depends on the collection scheme. So in the best performing on-farm composting corporations, where also the farmers do the collection service for the municipalities, they achieve a purity or a contamination of only 1.2%. If they do it in a way, I will show you in a minute. And this success story where you have nearly nothing left because you have educated household by household in the schools, in the schools, in the schools, in the schools, in the schools. In the schools, in the schools, in the schools, in the schools, in the schools, in the schools, in the schools, etc. Providing the right equipment, you achieve very, very high purity. Because what you see here is a big problem. Even if you screen it, you will have impurities and your compost market might be destroyed at once. So all of our citizens receive these little vented buckets. Ramon will tell you maybe about this also later. This is standard in well-performing circumstances and situations all over Europe. Paper bags, biodegradable bags, which are certified by European standards. For garden waste, the bigger paper bags, where you can put the grass and clippings and some leaves, etc. And flowers. And it is collected by farmers in the rural environment in this way, for instance. Depending on the size of the household, the buckets are bigger or smaller. But every bucket has a name and is identified. Even the biodegradable bags in some areas are identified with the number. So if there are a lot of impurities, plastics and some forks and metals and so included, not well separated, they can identify the household and contact them and tell them, you're not committed in the way we need it. You're part of our society and please take care. With bigger facilities, with pickup systems, hydraulic systems. So depending on the size and the catchment area, the collection system is different. Here we have an example of a city of Graz with more than 300,000 inhabitants. And they decided to do a centralized collection. Prepare and purify the collected bio-waste, kitchen waste and garden waste in a central treatment facility. Put it on a truck and send it to 18 different agricultural composting plants to farmers in the environment. Maximum 80 kilometers. In average, 30 kilometers, 10 to 30 kilometers in the vicinity, in the environment of the city. So there is no central big composting plant. But 18 un-fined composting plants. And when the compost is tested or the standard quality criteria like heavy metals, etc. And everything is okay, the farmer takes over the compost for his own use. Or he can also sell the compost to whomever he likes. So it is a win-win situation for the city, for the municipality and for the farmer. Yes, this is the typical garden waste collection. And then we have collection points. Note the distance between the settlements and these collection points should not be more than five kilometers. So, mostly connected with the recycling center. It is a public amenity site. Where people pass by frequently, easy to access, with a separation of fine and bulky garden waste. So that bulky garden waste can be threaded. And it mostly can be delivered for free. So, the system… Yeah. And now I show you typical composting plants, on-farm composting plants. From very small… One windrow alongside the field, alongside the road in the countryside. Where he goes with the windrow turner, alongside the little road here. On the upper left side. It is composting between 300 and 10,000 cubic meters. Depending on the catchment area and the municipality involved. Most of the facilities, yeah, can have to be built on a paved area. I will show you later details on this. Exactly. This is an overview of the design of the composting plant. Where you have help trotter there. This is the main rotting area on the top. This is sealed. This is paved. The surface water is collected into the wastewater retention tank. That is to be calculated according to the participation and the rainfall seasons. This is adjusted. And, in agreement with the local authorities. And the experts from the licensing bodies. And all facilities must be licensed as any, even commercial waste treatment facility under the specific regulations and guidelines. guidelines for composting in Austria. Though there is no difference if you are a farmer or a commercial entity or industrial farm, you have to follow the same rules in terms of environmental protection. And then the post rotting or the maturation can be done on open ground. There is no need for sealing and the definition for the maturation phase is that the compost must achieve or maintain a temperature below 40 to 45 degrees Celsius on a constant level and then you can put it on the open ground or even beside your acre or your field where you finish your composting for the final period in maturation. So this is also what those farms look like. Typically, yeah, wastewater collection with those little gullies. Yeah, and I swiftly give an overview of what is needed in terms of regulatory framework in order to establish even this decentralized on-farm corporation. First of all, in order to make the entire system of separate collection and composting successful, you need an obligation of binding targets for soft separation. This has been established already in the early 90s in Austria. And then it starts the education how this must be done in order to achieve, at the end, a high quality compost. So high quality feedstock means high quality compost in order to give time and the importance of the right collection of compost, we need to know the right collection. In parallel we have a ban on biodegradable of landfills, so that all source-separated organics are directed towards biological treatment. And then it is important to give compost a name. A name is a product, that means in Austria, we were the first country or EU member state, establishing a so-called end-of-waste quality standards within a decree, within an ordinance that defines the illegal feedstock quality, plus minimum requirements for time temperature regime, hygienization, sanitization, plus the definition of quality criteria for compost, compost, to seize the waste status to become a compost product to be freely marketed and put on the marketplace. And therefore, this was an enormous achievement to say this is a product as a fertilizer, as a soil improver, as a constituent for growing media that can compete with all other fertilizers, growing media and soil improver. The next one is we need technical standards, common technical standards for design and for operation of composting plants. That's very important not to be too strict and not to overrule with too, you know, scary and strict and stringent requirements regarding environmental requirements. We can discuss this perhaps later what I mean with this. This is about order control, this is about water protection, etc. Where if you make a good job, you can be quite relaxed with composting activities. Economic drivers, incentives, this is mainly an issue to make separate collections, incentive for separate collections and make residual waste expensive. But this is not so much our topic here. And also, of course, to maybe give some support, which was done in the beginning and now by the EU, the EU for establishing decentralized on-farm composting systems where provinces and also national governments and municipalities gave subsidies for the investment, for the investment, up to 50% for the investment for building and construction of the composting plants. And finally, the quality assurance and certification scheme we have established since the very beginning. So, I mean, here, the development from the 1990s to today. And you will wonder, in 1992, this obligation for separate collection of organic waste was established. From that on, the municipalities and waste management associations started the initiatives. So, there's a big increase in the next three to four years. And then, constantly more and more was produced in terms of quantity of bio waste collected. And you see a miracle in 2017 to 2019. This is because we established a national national regulation for waste reporting for electronic data management and waste reporting. Now we have really good data. The data, the reality of separate collection, specifically of green waste, etc., jumped into the statistics. So, from 2017 to 2019, it went up from approximately 1 million to 1.6 million tons we are collecting. I didn't mention that we have approximately 8 million inhabitants in Austria, so that you have that relation at the moment. And you can achieve a picture of our decentralized system that we have for these 8 million residents, or the inhabitants, 400 composting plants. That means the average treating approximately 1.3 million tons of the same amount of plants, including some sewage sludge here. And this is in total 145 kg per inhabitant. That is factually composted. That's a very high number, actually. And nearly 70% are members in the Quality Assurance scheme. And now, it's something very important that the novulation, the new composting ordinance that will be in the next year will make the quality assurance and certification scheme, including intensive education and certification, obligatory. So, the 70% from next year or in two years time will be 100%. So, those composting facilities, all farms will be visited every year by an inspector. And by this, they receive training and improvement year by year, year by year. And this is a very important tool to integrate this intensive communication, controlling and inspection work. And it creates also confidence among the society, among the authorities, the population. And you see our small scale composting plants. In average, we have here 3,000 tons per plant. In the top of Austria, or in the center of Austria, there's one province. They established approximately 160 composting plants for 1.4 million inhabitants in the very rural area. So, there it has been realized, what I mentioned before, every city, every village, every town, one or two farmers, doing the job of separate collection and composting. This is the most transparent way to do it, because every citizen knows exactly where the compost is produced, the quality, and where he receives his compost for his garden again. But the participation in separate collection depends very much first on public relation work, on the roll-out system of the bio bin, of the brown bin, but also on, of course, the settlement structure, more rural. So, we have different pros, if it's more rural or more urban areas. So, we have quite a difference between different provinces. But one of the provinces, the far right one, with 10% participation, in fact, is the province that we would say is a white spot in Austria. So, I have still a lot to do there. You see the same, it is Carinthia. This is the quantity, in the specific quantity collected, here in 2017, kilogram per inhabitant in year. And you see Carinthia, here, the second left, only 50 kilogram per inhabitant. If you compare it with others, up to 170 in some other provinces. But in some districts, the quantity goes up to 200, 300 kilogram per inhabitant. There's a huge potential still available in spite we have started in the late 80s. And what is now very important is, again, coming back to education or to minimum requirements, is that there is a strict rule that if you have to mix in a certain amount of bulky, shredded wood waste into kitchen waste or into sewage sludge. So, this is a very, you know, an element of quality assurance that has been put up first as a guideline. And in due time next year, it will be an obligation or the license. And you prevent mismanagement, all the problems and failures on composting plants if you strictly require a certain minimum requirement for the initial mix of the feedstock, that you have enough carbon-rich material. And this becomes important also in terms of understanding the composting process from the very beginning, identifying the right composition of feedstock. And another issue that we have a minimum requirement, because all our facilities, or most of them, 95% of our facilities are open windrow composting plants, that we want to prevent these, you know, four-meter-high table mountains, and provide minimum requirements for the relation between size of the windrow and minimum requirements for turning and aeration. So, feedstock mix, limiting the size of the windrows, plus turning and aeration as minimum requirements. And if this is already not only in the guideline, but in a binding, you know, setup, binding and a binding component element in the national licensing procedure, it is also educating the authorities and the experts in the authorities and in the local governments. And this is another very important message that education is needed for all involved parties, not only for the composting plant operators, but also for the plant operators, but between the experts. Now, you have to take on board the local government and the representative of the authorities, which are involved in the licensing and in the control. And this is just a scheme of the quality assurance system, where all composting plants, plants, and this was very important for the farmers, are obliged to be members. So, they have one person visiting them, taking the samples, providing the report from the accredited laboratory, and there is an independent committee that would speak out and award the certificate year by year. So, every composting plant receives such a certificate he can use for his marketing and is well known and accepted by all professional users and in the markets. That's another example how this is done on a European level also. There's an intensive cooperation with the European Compost Network, and we are personally in our institute, we also provide international certification for countries who do not have the infrastructure for certification of compost. And every second year there is a big, yesterday, a big celebration where the best 10 composting compost are erouded with the so-called Composca, that are tested for the parameters I showed you before, or you will see them when you receive the presentation. And finally, but finally, education internationally. I don't know, I've used all my time, more than my time, I guess, already. I'm happy to offer you this autumn in September, an international one-week training and study tour in Austria, where we try to show you the details of the composting separate collection scheme, specifically in the decentralized model, which is quite unique in Europe and I would say worldwide. But I'm very happy it's not worldwide anymore, that we have it with Ramon's activities and his friends. And I'm very happy to see and hear your efforts in the US. I would be more than happy to visit once in near future. All right, thank you very much. If you want to hear more about this seminar and this excursion in September, I will put you in my address list and send you the information. Thank you so much. And I'm looking forward for our discussion. Wonderful. Thank you so much, Florian, for that great presentation. And in the interest of time, I'm going to save the questions for the very end. I'd like to make sure we have time for Ramon's presentation, though we do have a few good questions. Please keep them coming if you have them. But now as we hand controls over to Ramon, I will go ahead and introduce him. So Ramon Plana holds a PhD in biology and industrial composting and is an international consultant with Maestro Compostador. He has worked with private and public entities around the world to advance research, design and implementation projects for the management and treatment of a variety of organic wastes. He holds several patents for the treatment of organic waste through aerobic and anaerobic biological processes and regularly collaborates with the association of cities and regions for sustainable resource management. So take us away, Ramon. Okay. Hello there. Hello everyone. Just a second. Okay. I think that you are seeing my screen now. So hello everyone. Thank you very much to the ELS for the invitation to be part of this webinar. And I think that now you are going to understand why at the beginning I asked to Linda that Florian has to talk before me. Because what we are going to show you, what I'm going to present you is a much more modest implementation of the farm composting, of the decentralized composting model related to farms. And the first steps that we are developing here in Spain. So that's either just you have it, you want to know who I am. Here in Spain we are defending that the biowaste management should have three models or three first approaches. The model without collection of the food waste is the transportation. The models were okay. There is a collection, but the transportation is minimum. You don't go very far from the town, from the village, from the city. And the centralized models that are based on collection and transportation to big facilities, to big plants, treatment plants. The first two models, we think that can be done with very simple and economical technology, low cost, low tech system. But as Florian said, we need a very clean biowaste with very low content in contaminants of in properties. Those systems are low tech because we need people. So we are going to rise the employment rates in the area. We change equipments for jobs. They are effective if we do it well. It allows to reach successful results and we have many to present. And what we think that is more important is that involved citizens. Because people are going to see in front of them what is happening with their wastes, especially with the food waste, with the kitchen waste, and what it means, the quantities, what it means, why they do not separate it well, and the possibilities to transform that waste into a resource. So at the end, the territory is also involved in the management. Moreover, we can't involve local companies, small companies, small and medium companies, and even those companies with social enterprises that allow that people in risk of social exclusion could perform specific tasks that are related in one way or another with the composting, to the local composting. So we think that with this system, you can develop a real local economy, circular economy, based in the treatment of the kitchen waste or other kinds of organic wastes. The centralized models that we are looking for, big facilities with high technology that allow us to treat food waste or any other kind of organic waste with a lot of contaminants. We don't care too much for the collection systems. They are automatic, most of the systems, so the employment rate is much lower than in the others. The results are mixed in the meaning that in some cases, we have very good results and those facilities produce a relatively good product, but in others, it's a complete disaster. And they are distance to the people. It means that people do not care about what happens with the waste. They only care for the container that they have in front of their house or not far from from their house, that it has to be empty every night. That's just what they care for. So with that in mind, now we are going to travel from the U.S. to Spain. I choose Detroit because it was the first city I visit when the first time I went to the U.S. And we are going to the north of Spain, to the city of Bilbao. And here we are going to present you the first examples. But before that, just a few hints about Spain and our waste management results. Okay. This is the last results or the last numbers we have about the municipal waste management. So as you can see, most of our municipal waste goes to landfill, directly to landfill. It is the same. And we have a lot of work to do to fulfil all the European directives about waste management. We are in the queue. And as you can see at the left of the graph, for composting and anaerobic digestion, we just recover the 3% of the waste, of the municipal waste. Maybe you can find in some reports and some articles that the number is around 17. Why? Because they consider it that all the food waste that are mixed with the residual waste. So, I mean, those fractions that are not separate on shores and that go to mechanical, biological treatment facilities, is also composting. But in the real reality, the quantity of food waste that is recovered separately, it's just the 3%. So, as I said, we have a lot of things to do in this country. About the distribution of population, it is interesting to understand what is happening. Here you can see in this map of Spain, the distribution of the population and every spike you are seeing, there are points with a higher density than others. So, you can see the main cities of Spain, the center, you can see this is the capital, Madrid here, the Mediterranean coast is Barcelona and all the municipalities around. The north, this is Bilbao and other cities, San Sebastián. And this is Valencia and you can see, okay, this is the big, all the capitals of the province, different states. In results, 50% of the population of Spain lives in 125 municipalities. And we have more than 8,000 municipalities in Spain. So, half of the population of this country, it's distributed, it's dispersed in the countryside. And our waste management model is, most of our region is completely centralized. This is the number of MBTs facilities, as I said before, this is with not separation of the food waste. You can see this bar is a comparison between different regions. I see most of them are in Barcelona, in Catalonia, in the south, Andalusia, there are in Madrid. If we talk about composting for food waste, for bio waste, you can see that there is a big difference, Catalonia and the rest. Why? Because here in Catalonia, we have around 27 composting facilities for food waste. And in the rest of Spain, this is an emptiness, because the north, we have here, we have two. Now we have one in the Basque Country. We have another one in Navarre, and now we are building two more. Madrid, they have just one of it. Here in my homeland, Galicia, in the northwest, here we just have at this moment one that is operating. There are another that are private, but public, that is just one. So, as you can see, the difference is huge. What it means that if we're trying to compare the centralized models and the centralized models, I did this this number according to the number of composting facilities in different countries in Europe and the inhabitants. As you can see, Portugal, it has a composting facility for every five million persons. Spain is one composting facility for every 1.5 million. But if we take out Catalonia, this number rise to more than three millions. One composting facility for every three million persons. At the bottom, Austria, as you have now listened to Florian and you can understand what I mean. My numbers was around one composting facility for every 19 inhabitants. Florian now update that to 22,000. But as you can see, the big difference, okay, the different approach to the strategy of waste management decentralized models confronting from centralized models like Spain. And talking about another models like household composting, there are some areas in the north where there are many composters distributed in the households, but at the end, not all of them have been really monitored. So we don't really know if they're being well managed or not, if they are processing all the food waste that is being generated in the household or not. So this number has to be taken with cauchus. And community composting. Okay, here we have two regions that are the main leaders at this moment. This is in the north. Basque country was here. They were the pioneers in the meaning that around 13, 14 years ago, we begin to experiment with different municipalities with the different models that could be implemented in their towns and village. And nowadays, there are more than 500 community composting areas and 13 different models of community composting here. In the west, this is the province of Ponte Vedra, where I was born. And here, there is a a model with a very intensive program about decentralized composting based on community composting. Nowadays, they are treating almost 3,500 tons of food waste per year in community composting areas. And there are some areas in the east, in the community of Valencia, there are some initiatives. Navarre, it's now also in the north, they are beginning with a very intensive program. And some areas of Catalonia, they have a very interesting development of community composting. In the rest, there are also other expedients, but they are not alternatives, real alternatives to bio waste management. So they need to have a complementary system with a collection. So this is an overview of Spain and our waste management model. And now I'm going to present you the different examples. We go to the north, Larravechu. Those were the pioneers in the farm composting in Spain. Here, this is a small village of Larravechu. It's close to Bilbao, around 20 kilometers far. It has around 2,000 inhabitants. And as they were about 20 kilometers far from the big city in the area, it means that they have to pay for the collection taxes and the transportation costs, higher prices than the neighbors, because they were at the end of the valley. So the trucks have to go there, collect a few kilograms of food waste and then come back to the big facilities. So for this village, it means a lot of money. So in 2013, some neighbors here begin to think that some other options could be available for them. And they have heard something about the Austrian model. Here in Spain, it's, you can, some, in some places, you can, you can listen that the, that sentence, oh, we have to replicate the Austrian model, or you have to look for the Austrian model. So Florian, so explain you what we think, what is the Austrian model. So they wanted to do something like that. They contacted me and we were thinking about which were the real possibilities for them to, to perform some kind of local composting, based in the action of local farmers. So nowadays, you're going to see, we developed a system that they are being running during all these years, that at this moment involves 290 families, nine big producers, big producers, I mean, shops, restaurants, fresh markets in the area. And they have at this moment, three simple composting facilities that are managed by, by farmers. A few months ago, there were four, but now the, the, the, the, one of the farmers, uh, decided that he couldn't continue with, with, with the program. As you see, these composting areas, they are very, very simple. They were made by the, by the neighbors, and with recycled materials, or the boots that you can see here, they were recycled. And the system is very, very simple. It's based in the three or four boxes, and when one is full, they have to move the material to the next, and continue. And as you can see, this is more or less how it looks. Why we can do it like that? Florian has explained it. We have a very, very good quality of the foot waste. It has less than one percent of contaminants. Even we can think about less than 0.5. So it's extremely easy to treat it. Here you have, uh, some videos where you can see how the, the system works. Okay. So the foot waste is generated in the households. So they collect it in a very small being. Now three days during the week, they can take it out to the street, to, to the doors of the building or the house. And then the, the farmer, the, the, the word in the basque language collected it. Okay. At the beginning, they have just one, one farmer and they, they realized that it was impossible to keep the service during the whole year. So they look for other farmers to join the, the program. And at this moment, as I said, they are, they are finished. So they, they distribute when and how they, they collect the, the food waste every week. In the composting facility, they measure the quantity of the food waste by volume. And they, uh, just put it inside the, inside the boxes. They add the, the bulky material that they have from their activity in the, in the farm. And from that, the beginning, the process begins, as you know, at the end, they use farmers really want the compost for, for the crop plants because the, uh, the lands in, in that area are quite poor in infertility because of industrial activity that they had in, in the area in the previous year. And those vegetables are sold to the, to the, to the neighbors, to the population. So they, they close the cycle. During these years, uh, uh, what they, they got is the, as I said, the, uh, they, they see that it was impossible to keep the, the service if they don't have more than two or three farmers involved because any injury or the, or the farmer got ill or he wants to take a holiday, a vacation, anything they want to do, they couldn't take the, the population unattended. So they begin to involve other farmers. They begin to try with other system. As I said, they were the pioneers. So they were experimenting a lot with this typical home composters for the first stages, and then they move it to the next. And one of the most interesting things here was that in 2015, one of the most important restaurants in Spain, one of, with three Michelin stars, one of those restaurants that they give you, uh, a this like this and the quantity of food is like this. And the bill is three pages at least, and have no less than two zeros. So one of the restaurants joined the project. And it was very, very funny because here you have the composting area, the first one, and it's around less than a mile far from the, from the, uh, from the town, from Larrabechu. And the restaurant, it's just here, really, really close to the composting area. But they just wanted more and more waste beans. They didn't want to know nothing about compost until the moment that the Tom Hall decided, okay, this is the bill for all the containers that you're asking for. And if you don't want to pay it, you have to take your food waste and go to the composting area and put it there for, to be processed. And they wanted to say, okay, we will do it. And moreover, they begin to announce in the, in the press and in their webpage, their webpage, that they were making compost. And at this moment, uh, two years ago, they got an international prize award related to the, was the most sustainable restaurant in the world because they were performing composting and other things, of course. But at that moment, the pro here, you can see this is the restaurant here at the bottom of the composting facility. And so it's that moment, the, the project got more, uh, strength and it was more respected, uh, for the local authorities. This is the quantities of, uh, food waste that they are processing in, in this model. Okay. Here in, in the yellow ones, you can see this is from the restaurant. This is the quantity from the restaurant. 2020, 20, because of the COVID, the quantities was more, more smaller. As you can see more or less, they're processing 70 to little more than 80 tons per year. There's quite, uh, modest. This is, these are the results from the analytics of the first, uh, compost. They complies all the exigences that we have here in Spain for the, for compost. And it has the highest legal quality related to the heavy metals content. It's class A. So here in Spain, it will be available to using inorganic farming pros and cons of the project. Okay. It came from the citizens. It was very important because it gives you a, uh, uh, high resistance and citizens convinced the authorities that it was good, that it was, uh, it has a future and at the end, all the mayors accepted and, and, and bet the, uh, that it could be a future for 40, for the town. It gives you a rent to the, to the farmers. So they allow us to continue their activities. Families are encouraged to participate because they really know what happens with the wastage and they know they are for good and not just for them. It's for all the population. It's simple. It's a very simple system. And they could incorporate new incentives in, in the area like social currency problems that, as I said, they began in 2013. Now we are years later, they are still with the same, uh, model. So they have to improve it yet. And they will take it. They have to invest more money to, to get all the, um, all the efforts and all the permits that the authorities ask the, uh, regional authorities ask them to have, and they have a big dependence of the number of, of farmers. Okay. Now we go very, not far from here in the north, in Surville. And here we have also the first, uh, composting, uh, facility that are really managed by a farmer. It is a bigger, uh, town. And here we have, we find household composting, community composting, and with the, for the families that do not perform one of those systems, they have door to door collection. And what they are doing now is they are taking part of that door to door collection and going to a farmer here where they receive two tons of bio waste every 15 days. So he's not under pressure. He can manage them with calm and do all the things that they have to be done to be sure that you have a good compost. They have a small toner machine that was also made in Spain. And the bulky material is, is provided by the municipality and also by the farmers. All the farmers were trained and they have a very specific protocol for the management of food waste. So when the truck arrives, they, they are prepared to, to process immediately all the food waste and build the windrow, perform the turnings and to keep it covered and under control at, at every moment. So all the parameters are monitored, uh, not, uh, at every moment, but yes, every day we have the register of temperatures, or, and if they have any, any problem, they find all the sense, any smell or anything, they immediately take note and try to correct it. And before the use, the product is analyzed. So all authorities can have the, can be sure that we are not doing anything harmful for the environmental or for the final destination of the compost. We are still in the north. This is a project, uh, that was finance, financed by the European union and the government of Navarre that involves a social company that is called Hosenea. We are here in the north. Here Hosenea is a, it's a social company that, uh, been, uh, working for 20 years now and they produce organic, uh, uh, herbals, medicinal, medicinal, medicinal, herbal, and teas, and different kinds of, uh, cosmetic products, all made by organic products, uh, locally. And the, the workers are always people in risk of social exclusion. So one of the problems that they had is what they didn't have enough compost for their harvest. So they begin to think, uh, after some of our, uh, meetings and speech in the university here in Navarre, that maybe it could be possible that they, uh, do perform the collection of food waste in their area. And with that food waste, they're going to produce compost for themselves. So they will have an economical income for the service that they offer to the, to the, uh, to the towns around the, their farm, the collection of the food waste and the treatment of those food waste. And they have also the benefit of the compost that they are going to produce for their use. So here you have, it's a very simple composting facility. They perform the bio waste collection to, for the local, and they, they, they do the local treatment also with a very simple toner machine that was made locally with a black, by a blacksmith in the town. But also in this project, we include the training. So this, this facility is also a school, a school for training people as, uh, master composters, as people that they, they learn how, what they have to do technically and administrative, administrative about the management of a composting facility. They also learn about the compost, how they can use it to take, to test the quality of the compost and also schools and universities goes there to learn more about composting. Another point of this project is that the university is related with it in the research of different organic products that can be produced in the composting facility, not only compost by, by itself, we not, uh, uh, liquid, uh, organic, uh, fertilizers or different mixes of, uh, products, biopesticides, etc. So there's also a research here and broad costing. We are also, we've been working a lot to promote this model to make people know about it. So we try to, to make it more popular in, in, in other areas of Spain. Last year we received an award for the Rural Inspiration Awards for resident futures. So we think that we were going in the right way here. Another example, now we're going to the, to the islands. We go to Balearic Islands and it is a project that connects tourists with ecology and local farming. We are in the Mallorca Island in the Mediterranean Sea. Here, okay. Some fast details you see, you know, here the, uh, the problem with organic matter in the soil in the Mediterranean basin is really, really terrible. We have most of our soils, more than 75% of our soils have less than 2% of organic matter. And we are even losing and losing that, those contents. For the island, we can see that specifically they have six more, almost 70% of the soils have an erosion risk and they are losing almost 12 tons of soil per hectare and per year in the island. So they need organic matter. Moreover, they almost, they don't have cattle. So it's hard for them to get the organic matter that they need to, to, to produce compost. But what they have is a lot of tourists. Okay. 2020, they have a drastic reduction of the number of tourists, but now they rise again, they have even more than before. So it means that they have a high demand for local resources and a high waste generation. And this hotel company, Garden Hotels, that has been working in the island for more than 30 years. And this man, Homer Dinas, begin to think, okay, maybe we can do something about waste management and organic matter and soils. So what they did is, okay, we want to offer to our customers organic, I'm going to pass this video and I'll give you later. They want to give you to the, to our customers, our clients, organic products, but they have to be local. We want local organic products. And they didn't find it in the market. So what they did is, okay, we have, we are producing more than 100 tons of food waste per year in just one of our hotels. So they take it during, during one month, October of 2016, we take it to a farm and manage by people as also in risk of social exclusion. We teach them how to make compost. And during this year, that, the last month of that year, they produce organic compost that they gave to the Association of Organic Farmers of the island. And with that compost, they produce organic products for the hotel. During this project, we take them, all the politicians, all the technicians from the local government, so they can see, they can touch, they can smell, and they can see that it was possible. It was real. And with that, we could begin the real project in September of 2019. So nowadays, two of those restaurants and the bigger, two of these hotels and the bigger restaurants in the island, the hotel collect the food waste from those, those places, and they take it to an organic farm in the island that is not far that 15 kilometers from the hotels. And here we have a very small composting facility, very simple, very small. We train the people in the farm how to make compost, and they take all the measure, all the controls. We have everything under control at every moment to be sure that they are managed, the food waste correctly. And the farmer gives the hotel organic products by the value of the organic matter that they receive. There is no money exchange here, only products. The farmer receives organic matter, and the farmer gives organic products by the value of the organic matter. Until now, we have processed more than 400 tons of food waste in this year, and the content in contaminants now is around 0.15%. So it's really, really good material to be processed in this simple systems. The process, as I said, is monitored, and all the data collected and uploaded to the cloud. So we can see immediately what is happening, and we have all the process under control. This project has received different awards in the last year, and the hotel is very happy because at the end this is publicity for them. So they don't care for the investment in the project because at the end they have the return of a very good image. It's always in the press, and they create jobs, one of them for people of social exclusion. We have developed some machinery in the island. So nowadays they know how to make this kind of machinery that we don't have it before. And also the hotel create a new company for the management of green wastage of the island to produce the bulky material that they need for the compost. So the main challenge we had during this time was to convince the local administration, as Florian said, this is one of the challenges and one of the specific targets of this kind of projects. They become official waste manager. manager. It was difficult, but they did it. Now they, as I said, they know how to produce their own bulky material. We don't have providers for the machinery in the island and at the end now we can't build it in the island. So the things are changing now in Balearic Islands related to this kind of projects. I just want to flag that we just have a few more minutes so that we can leave time for questions. Okay. So this was the last example. This is the in Canary Islands and just to point you, this is an island with a very difficult orography, the high mountains, volcanoes, etc. And all the organic wastes are were managed here in just one point of the island. And now we perform a project where there is a lot of decentralized composting all around the island and we are planning to use two composting facilities that already exist for the treatment of agricultural wastage from bananas mainly. So they can and now include also food waste from local villages, local small villages and towns in the area. So this is one of the projects we are working with. To finish it, the problems with this model is that there is not a specific regulation in Spain for this scale. So it depends on the interpretation for every responsible from the technical or the public administration. Only in Navarre they perform because of the project of Hossenea they develop a first regulation that is based in administrative and technical conditions. Okay. You have it here. So we make it simple to build and perform these facilities. Our main problem here is the quality of the food waste because in some cases we don't know who is going to control the food waste that the facility receives and who is going to pay if the farmer has to invest more money or more equipment and have a loss of the quality of the compost. So here this is a problem now in Spain when we try to promote this kind of models. And the need of professional technical training that it is essential as Florian previously said. Okay. We know that farmers know about composting but this is a little bit different and more intense. Supervision external technical support. Also Florian explained it about it. This here is a research group in the University of Miguel Hernandez in Valencia that they are doing a very amazing job work about it. The training and giving assistance to the farmers and to guarantee that the process is or the process the service is given during the whole year. So this is also one of the cons that the model has. So it is important to consider it. Finally just to comment that it's important that the ORECA sector can be the all the best allies. Restaurants, hotels, canteens, cafeterias, they create they generate a lot of food waste and very clean food waste. So it's very easy to transform it into a compost in a local model. So as I said this is the key aspect for the model here at least here at this moment in Spain. The specific regulation that we missed the guarantees of the quality of the food waste, the technical training, technical support, external support, service guarantees and the synergies that we can create with the ORECA sector. Just to finish our association that's called FertileAuro has created, developed a community composting guide, a handbook to promote the model and it has been translated to different languages. It is in English if you want it and also to the to Bolivia and other areas. We also perform as a friend said training courses just for looking for that so farmers and other people could be trained and also those kind of tours to show people to show politicians and technicians from other countries and also other parts of Spain that those models are a reality but what they need to do, what they need to know to take them to their countries, to their regions and to really implement it. So that's all. I'm sorry if I took longer than I thought but I hope it could be interesting for you. Thank you very much for your attention and any questions? Here you have me. Fabulous. That was a great presentation. Thank you Ramon. And so now we're going to move into questions and answers and I just love the combination of your presentations. I think the gold standard in Austria, what this could look like and I love seeing in Spain which I think is probably more similar to where we are in the United States of something a little bit where we're still striving for that gold standard. So thank you for that and I loved seeing the I think your presentations both clearly illustrated the benefits of community scaled composting solutions that can really be adapted to the local conditions and local challenges and local communities but also some of the considerations and challenges at that scale and the importance of support for the farmer for in you know implementing the composting but then also for educating the community on how to participate. So such great presentations. One of the questions that I think we could pose to both of you, you both mentioned the importance of contamination or just the needing a clean stream that will be composted at this scale and the question from a participant was what is an acceptable amount of contamination and for customers or people submitting their food scraps to be composted in these projects, what are the consequences if they exceed the limits? So can you hear me? Yes. Yes, very good. So if you allow I can start with that because we have after now 30 years of experience again a very big discussion there. We are going to implement a minimum requirements, so a limit, market with florida like 20% of the climate so unfortunately Ooohm service is banco and criteria a couple of at all, one of the reasons why these drugiej streams are some of the molecules in Japan for many years, because the coalrum of적으로 are scarce, these are Alberta trees, мозchiedowe or stanzia Birdoo ways and what they can bring back to it for all of us or many other cr bottom leave, equipment yeah to take the impurities out but there's actually who will pay for it who will analyze it if it's five point two or two point three or whatever so it's it's really tricky so the only thing you can do you can you and that what was very very successful in our case is to achieve the commitment by the by the entities who are responsible for the collection that might be the municipality that might be the intercommunity Association so the waste management Association of a number of municipalities that might be a private company but at the end the private company is contracted by the municipality or by a local authority and in the bylaws of the contract it must be clearly stated that they have to take into account to take care about the proper education and the control of the bins they collect so they have to private provide a system how they do the controlling and the communication about the purity and the quality of the feedstock and the food waste they collect and I think this again starts with a very intensive corporate communication and identification with the system and then you might succeed you ask for the threshold that would be acceptable at the end I'm telling you it's one percent it's one percent we shouldn't be ashamed to be quite stringent and very clear about it because five percent which you will find in some of the areas in the big cities for instance it looked like it looks like hell because it's mainly plastic and five percent by by by by weight is even in the final product you will have these fine plastic pieces which are end up in micro plastic which is the big debate today yeah I absolutely agree with Florian more than two percent becomes a problem in this kind of facilities with so simple because if not you have to invest in equipment or you have to invest in time of your of your workers open the bags by hand taking all the plastics so it's at the end that's impossible it means that you have to invest a lot of money for the management yeah yeah yeah facility as Florian said less than one percent is the objective here the project here the problem of course is at the end who is responsible for those qualities so that's what I said at the beginning the oreca sector the hotel restaurants something like that that is very very easy quite easy to have it under control to teach the people in the kitchen in the halls how they have to separate it the food then it's very easy to have a important quantity of food waste that it's almost completely clean so I'm beginning with that and then begin to train to raise the awareness of the people of the citizens of the politicians of the local administration of the importance of the separation on source so and then you can go you can try to get a very good quality food waste and then you can think okay now I can extend the model to more facilities or to do this facility a bit a little bit higher yes great answers the importance of models pilots that can be scaled up once the systems are dialed in so I'm just flagging that it's almost 1 30 I'm wondering if you Ramon and Florian would be willing to stay on for just a few more minutes to answer some more questions yes definitely fabulous okay so one question directed at you Florian I think was for an urban area did you in your the exam one of the examples you gave was the material sort of collected at a central area where contamination was removed and then it was sent on to farmers who would compost it or are there also examples where the farmers have to decontaminate it's always both because the decontaminate in a central facility in the city is never complete yeah so so if you collect from a city we have the problem that we might be in the range of 2% and then they have some screening and some separation by ballistic separation and separation by wind by magnetic separator etc etc but at the end we have those problems that the mixed and prepared feedstock delivered to the farmers still was quite contaminated but this is also due to the fact that there was not a much not enough commitment by the city by the municipality and its coworkers to do more about education work towards the household and to put more effort in the cleaning and purification and separation activities but at the end it was the risk it is the responsibility of the central of the municipality and the facility to deliver a well prepared raw feedstock mix to the farmers but afterathlon great thank you for that clarification now question for you element someone asked is there any competition between composters and pig farmers or other animal farmers i suppose to participate in the composting cycle model models that you've launched it unfortunately not It's really hard to find some farmers at this moment that they want to be involved in this kind of models. We have found in some cases that they really want the compost, but when you say, okay, but you have to do it by yourself and we are going to collect or you are going to receive the food waste and then you have to transform it into compost. Then they say, no, no, no, I don't have time. It's more complicated. It's going to be, I have, I want to have a lot of controls from the administration. I don't want to have problems. I mean, at this moment, for example, in Ponte Vedra, in that province, as I said, they have a very intense program in community composting. Now, the provincial government has developed a project to give some kind of health, economical health to any farmer or association of farmers that will, that will, that will to collect or receive organic waste from municipalities around them. So they want to give money for the investment in the facility or in the collection system and try to promote this model because they, they tried years ago and they didn't find any farmer interested in that. So it's difficult hearing. Most of the farmers are, are it still related to the mineral fertilizers. And it's now it's this year with the crisis in, in energy crisis with a tremendous rise of the cost of the fertilizers that a lot of them now they are looking for organic fertilizers. And they try to find other sources, but until now, you have to take a lot of time to knock a lot of doors to find farmers that could be interested in the model. So, yes, the current crisis with prices of a lot of commodities, but including fertilizers is something we feel even here in the US. It's very important, but hopefully it also brings us back to the importance of an opportunities with compost as an amendment that can also reduce the need for fertilizers, synthetic fertilizers. It's a great point. That's a great point. So, a question that this also leads me to is, how do you balance supporting farmers to, to get involved with this without making it feel like they're being forced or by putting too much of the onus of the responsibility of making farmers? And then, how do you balance the responsibility of managing all of the different pieces of collecting the waste and processing the waste and then distributing the compost at the end? Maybe this is a question more for, for Florian, because I think Ramon, you sort of touched on it, but if you have anything to add, I'd love to hear from you too. So, the key is, is a farmer really interested in this humus and compost cycle? So, and the second is, does he have a right location and does he have the human resources and some of the equipment he can provide? And this has then to be decided between the municipality, the responsible, or the entity that is risk local entity that is responsible for the waste collection or the, for the waste management. So, usually we, we have a sort of a concours, so there is a, an article in the local newspaper. We are looking for a farmer who is interested to do the job. And then there are two or three farmers coming up and they are invited and then we explain them what's coming up. So, what would be their duty and their, their task? It could be including the separate collection, the collecting part, or it's just receiving the organic waste that it collected by another, by the municipality or by a collection company. And then he's doing the job of composting from, from the, from the gate of the composting plant down to the marketing and everything. So, it is a side job or an additional job. He has to become a professional, a professional compost producer. It's, it's nothing that he should do just by, you know, in the late afternoon or in the evening. It, it must be clear that he needs time for that to maintain the composting plant of, plant of a professional level. And, in that case, I can say, the key issue there is not to find interesting farmers, but to find the right location. And, and to, to sort out, to identify if the farmer has the capacity to do the job in the right way. And this is a little bit, an issue that has to be taken into account at the beginning. But from that on, if this is okay, if I talk about location, the minimum we try to achieve is at least 250, 300 meter distance from the next settlement or residential area or permanent residence or restaurant or something like that. And then the local climate has to be taken into account to prevent later on, you know, all the problems and complaints by the neighbors and so forth. If I understood your question correctly. I think so. Ramon, do you have any insights to share? Ramon, do you have any insights to share with us? All the things that Florian said, I absolutely agree with him. Just to add that in some cases that we found that the farmers look for the model or could be interested in the model because of the compost. What they said that is not easy to, especially those farmers that are looking for organic farming and they are performing organic farming. They need compost and they, here in Spain to find a high quality compost that could be labeled as organic is not easy. The production is quite reduced. So if they find the opportunity to do it by themselves and they make the numbers and they say, okay, it is possible for me. Then it's a good incentive for them in our case. Yes. Compost is a high quality compost is not always easy to come by. You have to consider it is an additional income also, but they have to provide service for that income. So our gate fee for taking over organic kitchen waste is in order to cover all the costs, including the revenue. It's between 50, 55 to 65 euros per tonne. And that is needed to do a professional job. This refers to paved and sealed and professional composting plants that are constructed on a high level. So I forgot to mention that up to 300 cubic meter of green waste only. So garden and park waste only in Austria, it is allowed to do the composting and open ground. Even the intensive frotting phase, the first frotting phase. I tried to increase this threshold because we have found even if it's 1000 cubic meters per year, it wouldn't do any harm if you do a good job. It could be open ground if you are in a certain distance from surface water, from rivers or whatever from the lake. And you don't have groundwater problems or a nearby well or whatever. But in normal cases, even on open ground, if the ground is capable to carry your machines and so forth, you can do it up to a certain quantity. Right. Okay. Well, just to get to a couple more questions from the audience, I would love to continue talking about this, but maybe another time just to try to compare it to what we're seeing in the US. There's just lots of questions that are coming up for me. But a question, a clarification for you, Ramon, was in the examples that you gave, were, are there composters coming onto the farm to do the composting and the farmers receive the compost in the end? Or are the farmers actually doing the composting themselves? I don't think I understood the question. Are the farmers in the examples that you, in some of the examples you gave, are they actually doing the composting or is there a separate entity that comes in and actually does the composting on the farm? No, no, they do it. But in all the cases, they do it by themselves. But in, for example, in that, with the hotels, they have external support by myself and others to teach them. And if they have any problem or any doubt, they just immediately phone me or send me an email to see, oh, it's happening in this, what I can do. That's all. But they do it in every, in all those cases, they do it by themselves. Okay. Well, thank you for that clarification. For you, Florian, someone early on in your presentation asked if you could clarify the need for clay, adding clay into the composting mix to create stable humus. Now, this is basic knowledge of soil formation. Lecture number one. That 10,000 years ago, when the glacier disappeared, you have just sand and gravel and so forth. And then a hundred year by hundred year by hundred year, the soils were formed by a combination of further degradation and weathering of the mineral substance. And into the small, small pieces, less than two micrometer. And when it's less than two micrometer and particle size of minerals, the secondary minerals, clay minerals. They've become plastic. like plastic how you call that they can take up water yeah and they're performed and constructed in layers and they can take up and absorb minerals like calcium potassium and they have also an electric load in the surface which is negative and this combines now not only with minerals like calcium magnesium potassium etc but also with degradation compounds from the organic breakdown of peptides and carbohydrates etc from assimilate from the plants that are micro that are degraded by microbial activity and those macromolecules also have in their outer layer of a positive loading and and this is connected now with the surface of these uh secondary clay minerals and they've built a protection layer around these we call it human compounds that we don't know exactly what it is chemically speaking we we have a guess yeah in our in in our workbooks yeah um but at the end this clay compound is very very important to stabilize the partly degraded and stabilized organic compounds from microbial decomposition and this is this is a basic knowledge and it is not taken into account because of costs as a big facilities consider they have to add i don't know 10 percent by volume or by weight take what you want of clay clay soils into the composting process this is a lot of effort they need this additional storage uh area and this costs money but at the end the stability and the quality of the hummus compound they produce is less and this is a a lesson we learned from basic soil formation lectures yeah thank you for that that was that was taught uh by the pioneers of composting in the 1950s already but it was forgotten it was a long time yes it wasn't until i had the opportunity to study with uh some composters in austria a few years ago that i i heard of uh clay being added so um hopefully we were are resharing some forgotten knowledge there um so a final question for both of you um um and i'm going to make it a two-part question um someone commented that it's great that restaurants and hotels are getting involved in these efforts are there grocery stores uh getting involved too and are you aware of any examples that use uh vermicomposting uh as the processing technique grocery stores in the first example that i using those that were the payoneers here in spain yes they are they're taking some organic waste from food waste from grocery stores so it's also possible it's a kind of generators that could be really uh welcome in this kind of of models as i said the same that hotels and restaurants it's quite easy to separate it and have a good quality and with vermicomposting some for example the uh that project in majorca the end of the moderation process they do it with worms so we perform vermicomposting at the end but just for moderation not at the beginning and now we are working also in in another facility of actually very small that would part of it will be the the production of vermicompost so it's it's been really really possible but it's much better to be sure that everything is under control you do it after at least after the fermentation stage of the composting process that makes sense chlorine uh any uh examples of either grocery stores being involved um i assume they must be um and then if you'd know of any vermicomposting that's happening in austria you know also the grocery supermarkets etc are obliged to provide separate collection usually they contract a professional collection company uh so it depends on the size of the village and the groceries etc if they are involved in the agricultural composting scheme where also the farmers do the collection so they're involved partly with these on-farm composting but for the for the bigger supermarket chains i would say not so much but we have big composting plants of course uh that are run by farmers up to 15 to 20 000 tons per year uh they are they are not providing the collection but they receive if the grocery are involved in the general separate collection scheme run by the municipality uh then uh they have to implement the source separation for the organics and then it is included also and vermic composting there is only one professional example and this facility uh does exactly as ramon said a maturation phase more or less we could say so after uh i think it's six weeks of intensive a high temperature composting phase active composting phase but he's uh in this case only uh uh um green manure so means grass clippings and alpha alpha etc from the farm manure and green waste so garden and park waste is composted without kitchen waste and that is then fed to a very professional um vermic farm compost farm with automatic harvesting uh the the warm uh the wrong compost and so forth i'm teaching it for home composting intensively in a very simple way because with one composting there's nearly no need for turning if you do it in the right way it can be done very simple with a very simple performance because it's simply similar equipment as uh ramon showed it from from the compost boxes from the community composting facilities just a little box put a little bit on the top and the worms do the job and in 10 days you don't see anything anymore from the kitchen waste great yes we um we advocate or teach uh worm composting for the home scale but we we do see it in the community scale as well so yes fabulous thank you both so much for staying longer to answer some of those questions i'm sorry if we didn't get to everybody's questions but um i really appreciate this opportunity to learn from the models you have been involved with in austria and spain uh florian and ramon and i just really appreciate your time and uh thank you all for participating good luck to everybody thanks to you you're welcome okay thank you and take care everyone thank you bye bye naughty all right raman