Easy way to turn your 10 gallon aquarium into an aquaponics system
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GpyzI_cOpv8
People & Blogs
 Hello, I'm Patrick with JustPonics and today I want to talk to you about using our edgy kit to turn your 10 gallon aquarium tank into aquaponics system. So first off I want to describe some materials that you'll need to construct an edgy kit. You can either buy it from us or construct your own. So first you'll need a bucket, there's a plastic bucket, you'll need a bell siphon, we print these ourselves, you can find us on Amazon and Etsy. You'll need a bucket of grow media such as hydrotone, there's a bucket of hydrotone, a pump and a drill. And the two drill bits you'll need are a 7 8 hole saw and a 1 4th inch drill bit. Okay so now I'm going to turn this bucket into a aquaponics grow bed for your 10 gallon aquarium. The first thing you'll need to do is take your 7 8 hole saw and drill a hole somewhere in your bucket. This 7 8 hole is for the bell siphon. So let me drill this hole. So there's the hole. Next thing you'll need to drill is a hole for the the line from the pump. So take your 1 4th inch drill bit. Drill another hole somewhere into the bucket. Hole for the pump holes. And now we're going to take all these materials and convert our 10 gallon aquarium into aquaponics system. Hello. Now we're going to take our Justaponics Edu Kit. And we're going to convert our 10 gallon aquarium into an aquaponics system. So first thing you want to do is take your bucket with the 7 8 inch hole and screw in your bell siphon. So the Justaponics auto- the bell siphon comes with a o-ring and you want to put that o-ring onto the bell siphon. Push it through the 7 8 inch hole and take this nut and screw it into place. This o-ring will prevent water from leaking from the top of the bucket to the bottom of the bucket. And it'll only allow it to come through this tube. Next you want to take your s-shaped connector and screw it in on the bottom. This is for the drainage. So now you have the kit ready. Now take your pump and stick it into your aquarium. Let's do this right now. Once you have your pump in your aquarium. You want to take a- get some type of a way to keep your aquaponics grow bed on top of the aquarium. You could have- you could have your aquarium on a shelf and put this grow bed on top of the shelf. You could have a pump. Or you could even use two blocks of wood as a base for the aquaponics system. Put the two pieces of wood there. Keep your aquaponics bucket right on top. Take the hose that you just- that's coming out of your- your pump. And stick it into the- a hole in the- a hole in the- a hole bucket. Okay. Add in your hydrotone or other inert media. And finally, turn on your pump. Plug in your pump. So you'll see the water from the aquarium being pumped into this grow bucket. And as the water rises, once it- reaches the top of the bell siphon, this bell siphon will siphon all the water in the bucket back into the pump. So the benefits of this aquaponics grow bed on top is that you can actually use it as a filter for your fish tank. In addition, you can grow other plants up here. You can grow herbs. You can grow wheat grass. You can grow tomatoes. So you can actually turn your aquarium into a mini grow bed. And let's see this auto siphon work. This is the auto siphon right here. So when the auto siphon starts working, you'll see the water flush from the bottom of the siphon. There we go. The siphon just started. Once the siphon starts, you'll see the water slowly drain from the top of the bucket. The bucket. This constant filling of the bucket and the drain in the bucket provides good aeration for any plant plants that you decide to plant in the grow bucket. So this is how you turn a 10 gallon aquarium fish tank into aquaponics system. And if you want this kit or the bell siphon, you can go to our Etsy page or Amazon page. So visit us at justaponics.com. Bye.