Sustaining Agrarian Economy in Drought_Kolar
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GpzCOmuFm8E
Film & Animation
 Kolar district is the second largest milk producing district in the state with a daily production of milk to the extent of around 1 million liters. So, the predominant agrarian economy is dependent on the animal husbandry as such. We have around 2.7 lakh heads of cattle and unlike other parts of the state and the country the predominant number of cattle we have are milch cattle. That is gains important because the traditional concepts of fodder management in a drought year that is opening gauchalas or providing fodder banks do not work here. We have to grow the cattle in the middle of the night and grow the cattle in the middle of the night. Because majority of them are milch cattle where for maintaining the level of milk production the provision of green fodder is very essential. In Kolar district we need to growlj보다 high foremnen and carry a higher amount of cattle. If our saw sample becomes only large fruit falls, most there take is 54iernaldop we need more information toaffa. 19,6 crisis In the Udyll сердцем he contacted the intrigues dueunal search of positive arguments We wanted to record a courgette a hot이가 story There are also villages with villages and reds, house sets two houses, Por frozen wood trees and houses Item is the allowed one Villa As a man in manato By bad지 meeting in thisarch historical old village The plastic covered with lime A On Splash People were foliar... Like I said that to use 산 goals. Towards six thousand dopoves, we won't beeight  Empress no aware of death. Our John waves can flow through we receive a three removed兄bags and our soft leaf project of veterinary empire business-fed plant in people by field lots of things we are earing they are So the other project's got all theseoultsul surfaces, we started working on dairyaka. We also discovered coal-table and we had higher quality finance and this project was done too. as a cash crop for the farmers as such. So, we have took up lot of initiative enlisting farmers to grow at least part of their holding for green fodder. We supplied African Ptolemy's fodder minikets free of cost to the farmers and with the help of the local primary milk unions, we entered into agreement with the farmer who is growing the fodder with the secretary of the primary milk union with a buyback arrangement and agreement. So, that he is given an assured income within a short period of time about 45 to 60 days. The results are very impressive to be seen. Already we have ensured that around 12,000 acres of area has already come under this green fodder cultivation and farmers who already experienced the harvest, they have got very handsome returns on their investment of the with the minimum investment of around 6,000. They have got assured returns of around 60 to 70,000 rupees per acre which is a really boon to them in this severe drought year. So, we have taken up a target to ensure that for the next 6 to 7 months, every village of the district we ensure that fodder is grown. Not only helps the local farmers who are growing the fodder but also the cattle raiders, they are assured of good quality fodder, green fodder at very minimal cost without any transportation costs and very locally available fodder. friendly special wakes the people that areisk you among shares you before the wiederum 2000ễs. And here we have raised its rechts Ane Apa JalSet. Mr David from服務 autres Lovel Jovi Road Ed R Ala Ho W Suppose H Rеб