AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY: Drones application is now here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GSAHov2oNTw
News & Politics
 As opposed to heavily relying on applying pesticides with backpacks prayers carried by humans, imagine using a drone and what life becomes with the use of such technologies. All the protection that's required, the hazardous chemicals that can enter and affect the workers on the farm, this kind of technology does away with all that because with a drone you don't have to step in the farm. The drone does its job in the quickest time possible and the crop is properly sprayed. So we are not honoring... For farmers in Bamnanika, a town in Luero district, new technology affords efficiency in usage of water and pesticides, for instance. Because our hot culture products have been intercepted many times in the European Union market, one because of maximum residue levels. So in this case, where we have seen we need to calculate exact amount of pesticide we need, we think our product, if we use this technology, will come without those. They could spray my neighbor's land within three minutes and finish, and yet I have over 34 acres of maize. That's amazing. I can leave Kampala anytime and come from work in Kampala and come here and do it within an hour. So I feel like it's a technology which has to be embraced by farmers. This is the kamiko container. At this critical point of transformation to technology for better agriculture, the cost of acquisition may be prohibitive. The key thing in this challenge is to have enabling frameworks to assist smallholder farmers, who are the majority in Uganda, to be able to access these kind of services as a group. The best way of doing that normally is through a cooperative or a farmer's business organization. So it will do the best to protect the crops. This is the new technology. And also, the most important thing is if we got enough batteries with one drone, every day, we can operate almost 50 hectares. The agriculture drone's market size is expected to grow from US$1.2 billion in 2019 to US$4.8 billion by 2024, at an annual growth rate of 31.4.