Class 8 Science Crop production and management - Harvesting of Crops | Agricultural Practices
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GtcrmEZQv90
Education
 Protection from weeds and harvesting. Subscribe the channel and press the bell icon to get latest updates from learnfordford.com. Protection from weeds. In the crop plant, along with desired crops, many other undesirable plants grow naturally. In the fields, all plants other than crop plants are called weeds. Weeds consume water, nutrients, space and light. Unavability of all these factors affect the growth of crop. Watch ad-free and complete syllabus on LearnFutafut Android app. In addition to this, some weeds also release toxins which may damage the crop plant and are hazardous to animals and human beings. Therefore, weeds must be removed from croplands. The removal of weeds from cropland is called weeding. Weeding must be done before flowering of crop plants. There are many ways to remove weeds or control their growth. Weeding before sowing helps to uproot and kill the weeds. Manual removal of weeds is done by trowel i.e. skhorpi or seed drill. Watch ad-free and complete syllabus on LearnFutafut Android app. Download the app now. Some chemicals called vericides are diluted to required extent and sprayed with sprayer to control weeds. For example, 2,4-D and methoteler. These chemicals are toxic to human body and so must be handled carefully. Before spraying, nose and mouth must be covered with clean cloth or mask. The process of cutting matured crop is called harvesting. In this process, crops are pulled out or cut close to the ground either by sickle or by harvester. Fresh crops contain moisture so these must be dried in the sun. The separation of grain seeds from harvested crop is called threshing. It is done by thresher. There is another machine called combine which is the combination of harvester and thresher. After separation, the stem of crop is cut into small pieces and stored as hay. It is used as fodder i.e. food for cattle. Farmers with small holdings of land separates the grain and chaff by winnowing. The chaff being lighter flow away with the wind and fall away from the grains. Thus, grains are separated. So, I hope you have got good understanding of this topic. Thank you for watching this video. Like, share and subscribe learnfotafford.com and press the bell icon to never miss an updates from learnfotafford.com. Thank you for watching. Thank you for watching. Thank you for watching.