Here’s what I sell at my farm stand: spring 2025
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GuCROW3eKYA
People & Blogs
 I have officially reopened my farm stand for the 2025 season, so I'm going to show you guys all of the things my mom and I are offering at this farm stand. And I will point out our best sellers thus far. We did open it on April 1st. This year we have farm fresh eggs because I have six chickens currently laying. I am also a certified wildlife habitat for my 6.74 acres you see here. First up we have the art corner. All of these things were made by my mom. She's a lifelong artist. She painted all of these different potters people can take home to hopefully start planting the native plants that pollinators need to not die. These are cards from her prints that she painted and these are actual prints framed that people can buy and take home as well as stickers. These are all original paintings here at the farm of our rabbits and different scenes here. Some woodburn boards. This is my favorite pollinator product since I have declared that my land is officially going to be a pollinating farm. These are pollinator waterers so they can safely land and drink. These are bug hotels so solitary bugs, bees, pollinators can overwinter, reproduce, hang out in them. We have painted all of them with unique designs on the side. Amish directories. We did have to start charging $3 because people were abusing how many they were taking. Farm fresh eggs. I do have them in plastic because people return them and I clean them so don't worry they are being reused. Books I wrote many moons ago. Farmer's Almanac. Bunny poop. Gardening Gold. Free seeds. This company gave me this stand for free. These are free seeds people can take home. More free seeds I collected last year on my farm. Honor system cash box. No one has ever stolen from us before. So far we have had one to five visitors at this farm stand every single day since we opened it on April 1st. It continues to amaze me at what is possible with a farm stand. Some visitors are due to my social media but a lot are just locals who have come to know that this farm stand is open every single day. So as long as you put your open sign out everyone will eventually know that you are there selling things at your farm stand. Follow along as I attempt to save endangered pollinators at this 6.74 acres this year. Should be entertaining.intéian television now. So here we are. Why Heil? Why те страны am one other thing? Why are you superficak? Why are you Tear oldys at this farm stand? Why are you приехating? Why are you kneeling at this farm stand? Why are you protein?