FELIX GYAMFI- DIRECTOR GENERAL (NSA) EP03- AGRICULTURAL ACTIVITY
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gusQD5rbReI
People & Blogs
 Music Is it just where we are as a country? It's just where we are as a country. If you look at unemployment figures, or even employment is rising, and then the food security issues, and this is what we have to do. The majority of our youth, which we happen to supervise, are finishing school, and it's taking them 10 years to find work. For those who are lucky, it's taking them 3 and a half years. Meanwhile, we have serious issues with food security. So if we can get a chunk of our graduates to become entrepreneurs in all the value chains in agriculture, that would be so fantastic. So my drivers in line represent Mohammed's efforts so that we can have our youth, a good chunk of our youth, in all levels of agriculture. Either selling, either processing, either growing, or bagging, in the country and then outside. So that's where we are. The National Service stand in a position where we can make a difference. And I feel that we are on the cast of history that we have to take the right decisions. And if we do, I'm sure in a few years, everybody will be amazed that we had this potential that was unexplored. In all fields, National Service can take the lead and command heights for years to come. And that is what really gets me up in the morning. I'm really excited about the prospects of National Service. It's just sad that it hasn't been raining every day. And we can't develop our lands, but I'm sure that God will be on our side. We'll get the right investors and we'll make the progress soon. We'll stay young You will see It's like a symphony Just keep listening It is also harnessing our people's strength. If you look at the map of Ghana, National Service offices are spread out around the country. And there's no reason why we cannot have farm in every district. So if you have looked at it, wherever our offices are and then we can do something there, we are willing to do something there. So in the last few weeks, wherever there's a clear opportunity for us to establish something there, I have said that we should do it quickly because it really doesn't require much. People are willing to give us lands. They are investors or partners who have tracked us. government has given us maize. And then even the transportation of it is being taken care of by one of our partners who is so generous to help us too. This afternoon, I got wind of lands that are available for tomato production at between Adan and Kase. So wherever there's some land, wherever we would have help, either from the ministry, from a private investor or anybody, we should go. Look at how much difference we can bring to YAPI in the next few months where we are employing or we are engaging about 300 young women into tomato production. Imagine we were not just doing 200 acres and we are doing about 10,000 in the years to come. We would be taking a brief stance towards ending tomato importation and that is saving millions and millions of dollars for the Ghanaian economy. And that is what I want people to bring their minds to. That the youth of Ghana at this point can take the opportunity to end importation of several food produce and in the process to end youth unemployment which currently it's remote to stand around 14%. If we do that, then we'll bring confidence back to the youth and the people who are yearning to travel abroad for all manner of reasons will end. Then people begin to be proud about this country again.