SHEEP FARMING FOR BEGINNERS // What I Wish We Knew Before Starting a Sheep Farm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gY-5e4KqUeU
People & Blogs
 Alright, sheep farming for beginners. Basically this video is going to be me going back in time for years and telling my former self everything I wish that we would have known to help equip us for those first few years as sheep farmers. Getting ready to make a video about whether or not sheep farming is profitable, but that video hinges upon you taking hold of what I'm about to tell you in this video. And so my precursor to my sheep farming profitability video series is a very strong warning so that if you jump into sheep like I have, if you go out on a limb for sheep like I have, you will not be caught off guard. You will have the advantage that I had in seeing these problems and understanding the seriousness of them. The first three years of owning sheep was not easy. We were sheep farming beginners in the truest, rawest sense. We had just moved from the city and we wanted a nice small animal to retain an agricultural exemption that the land had on it. So we bought nice small animals. The experience was absolute bliss as beginner sheep farmers for about eight months. And then our sheep began dying very quickly and they just didn't stop dying for quite a while. And we didn't know how big of a threat internal parasites are to sheep farmers and we had done nothing to manage them, to monitor them, or to reduce them in our flock. But you're going to say, wait, I bought parasite resistant sheep. Not going to have problems with worms. Parasite resistance is probably 20% breed and 80% management. And to be honest, as beginner sheep farmers, we were doing our absolute best. Once our animals started to die really quickly, we began to deworm them. And here again is where I really wish somebody would have told us way back when. We were using a dewormer for our flock called Prohibit. And we still use that dewormer and it's very effective for us. But back then, we were using that dewormer based on the package instructions. And ironically, the package instructions are no longer effective for most sheep. In fact, I am going to link down below to a Clemson University chart that will show you not only how to mix this dewormer, but the correct dosages to administer it. And deworming is a touchy topic because not everybody agrees with it. But here's the thing. Your farm is your farm. And you're going to have to decide what your management practices will be. Not based on what this guy does or what that guy does, but what is best for you and your animals and your goals. With sheep, they will die at some rate or another unless you work to deworm them. Either naturally through a means that is proven through fecal egg counts or using modern convention in good sense with good and proper management practices. But I would not be doing you any favor at all if I did not put up a big red flag with respect to parasite management and how from the very, very minute your sheep arrive on your farm, you need to be managing parasites. Rotational grazing has done huge things to reduce the parasite load in my flock. But I do still deworm. I deworm at critical points in the animal's life cycle. Before breeding, before lambing, and after lambing. And beyond that, I deworm on an inspection basis. Your little lambs will have little or no resistance to internal parasites on the pasture in their first year. You've got to watch lambs doubly if you are raising them on a pastured system. This is hard to say, but in our first year as beginner sheep farmers, we lost all of our lambs to parasites. And as painful as this is to recount this year, we lost zero lambs to parasites. We have made improvements in parasite management that take us from absolute desolation to profitability. But you must latch hold on the reality that as sheep farmers, parasites can do you in if you do not work intensively to manage them. And if you are going into sheep farming in hopes of being profitable on any level, you need to decide what you are going to do for parasite management. If you decide to buy in a flock and you decide you do not want to use any conventional dewormers whatsoever, you are going to need to be prepared for loss on some scale or another. For me, here is my strategy. I am running a controlled cull on my flock. I deworm any animal as they need it. And if they need it any more than a specific number of times within the space of one year, that animal will be sold. Rather than $300 to $500 worth of animal dying right there on the pasture, I can run a controlled cull, regain a bit of my investment, and move forward with a stronger flock. And that is how I am sheep farming. And that is the context in which I believe I will be profitable. Through management, I have been able to reduce the usage of conventional dewormers by 40% in my flock in just one year. It is ultimately my goal to have a flock full of ewes that only requires deworming once per year. Holistic management, I believe, is an effort to manage the whole. And sometimes that whole includes a timeline. If you take an animal that has been managed conventionally and you pop it into what you consider to be a holistic system, that's not very fair to the animal. But if you take an animal that has been managed conventionally and you put it into better systems that will improve its health while maintaining its pre-existing care, you will, just like I did, see a continued upward movement in the overall health of your animal. So guys, thank you so much for watching this video. If you want to know more and see more on the ins and outs of sheep farming, I've got a ton of that on this channel. But before I delve into all of the business ins and outs and the enthusiasm that I genuinely have for my sheep farm, I had to create a red flag video. And basically I want this video to give you the same opportunity that I had to see sheep farming from all angles and to assess the risk before you jump in. Farming for beginners, there it is.