Inheritance Tax on farms - Should I take action?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gzu8W4WXAEQ
People & Blogs
 This week I'm joined by agriculture partner Ryan Lincoln from my Halesworth office. Welcome Ryan. Hi James, how are you? I'm good, thank you very much and great to have you along. I've been meaning to catch up for some time. I think on a topic that we've been doing a lot of work on, certainly you in the agricultural section have been for a number of months since the autumn budget around inheritance tax, specifically for farmers. Lots of questions to go into around that, but I don't know if you want to just start by talking a little bit about in general terms what changed in the autumn budget and what you're seeing from your clients. Yeah, I suppose the budget was a bit of a bombshell. There's been a lot of talk about agricultural property relief for many years now. Nothing's changed. I think we thought the budget might just fly by, no real changes. There's capital gains uplift on someone's death, so passing on assets, and that was something that we thought would be challenged, taking out the budget. But they went one step further and seem to have crippled most family farms. I think even the numbers they've had, I think you'll find there's a lot more farms that get pulled into this and they will have serious amounts of debt to find on, you know, the next generation to find. Yeah, because I think looking at the numbers, and we'll go into them shortly, it certainly feels like the purpose of looking at inheritance tax on farms was mainly focused at those larger farms. Maybe people that were using farms as an inheritance tax tool, and ultimately, whether that didn't raise enough tax or whether the rules just needed to be shaped in a different way, they have brought many, many farmers into this tax. And many, many of our clients are going to be affected by this, aren't they? And it felt like maybe there was a solution whereby they could just have targeted larger farms, but ultimately that's not happened, has it? No, I think you picked up on that point quite well, that the larger farms are where they probably should be targeting. The fact that they brought the rate down from 40% to 20% means that these larger farms or people from the city with plenty of money will more than happily go and buy up farmland now, knowing that cash sitting in the bank is only getting 40% tax, whereas owning it in land or farm or agriculture or even in a business is going to get 20% relief. To put simply, in the past, farmers would have 100% relief from inheritance tax, whereas the standard rate was 40%. That's kind of a halfway house there where the effective rate is a 20% inheritance tax charge on farms. That's right, isn't it? Yes, that is correct. I think some of the difficulty is that farms, farmers, owners haven't always passed on their assets. Succession has always been a bit tricky with the next generation. I would say there's three main reasons, and those would be that one of them, they need to derive an income. So the first thing is they need to keep their income. If they're given an asset away, they can't still benefit from that income. So that's one consideration. The second one is that we had this capital gains uplift on death. So by holding on to the asset, we could pass that on to the next generation at an uplifted value. So that made sense to keep the asset as well. And thirdly, the next generation, there isn't always an issue about matrimony or, you know, the family splitting up or having complications. So security of that asset and holding on to that asset was always key. So those three factors rolled in together is probably why farms have always held on to the assets, because it made sense from a tax point of view and security of that asset that they held it for so long. Yeah, because where we sit with this is it's the interaction between inheritance tax and capital gains tax, which inherently is a little bit more difficult to understand and see how one interacts with the other. But that key point of when you pass on an asset in your will, the person inheriting that acquires it effectively at the value, the market value at the date of death. So it was in everybody's interests, really, the farmer passes away, the farm moves over to the next generation and they inherit it. If they then sell it the following week, there's going to be a very small capital gain on that. So it was the default strategy, I guess, for most farmers and business owners to a certain extent. And we'll come on to non-farming aspects later. But it was the default strategy there really to die with the asset and pass it on through the will when there was no inheritance tax. And of course, that's still an advantage. And it's not to say that the right strategy now is to gift assets in lifetime because that comes with other taxes. But ultimately, that was a real benefit for hanging on to it. But when it comes to inheritance tax, just in terms of the detail, the new rules state that it's 20% tax rather than 40. But are there any exemptions, any nil rate bans, anything associated with that as well, just to help slightly? We still have a nil rate bans. So everyone's got 325,000, which they can use against their estate. Husband and wives have that transferable. What the government have done is they've capped now the relief that used to be there 100% to the first 1 million pounds. Right. OK, so that means if you've got land worth 2 or 3 million pounds, the first million pound will be relievable. The rest of it will be pulled into your estate and taxed. Yeah. After your nil rate bans taken off at 20% effectively. Now, unlike the nil rate bans, the 1 million pound between husband and wives is not transferable on death. Right. So you will need to do a little bit of tax planning around your wills, which are historically and more commonly known as mirrored wills, where everything's left to one another, so the surviving spouse gets everything. If that happens, that 1 million pound that the deceased spouse had is then effectively lost. So the structure in your wills needs to leave a certain amount of assets down to the next generation. Yeah, this takes us back to sort of pre the times when the nil rate ban was transferable. Everybody's wills were structured in such a way that they utilised that allowance and passed on the balance. And then it became a lot more easy when the nil rate ban was transferable. So I guess the advice here, the key point is where you've got farmers and business property involved, the wills need to be considered to almost pass on the first million to children or the next generation, and then the remainder to the spouse so that then more advanced tax planning can be done on the second death. But again, that's going to take some time. You're going to have to look at your wills and consider how they might be restructured alongside other things as well. So let's look at a couple of typical strategies that could be put into place as a result of these new rules coming. Firstly, let's just talk hypothetically about the strategy that was in place before the budget. So previously, farmer would pass away. The farm would be transferred to the next generation or beneficiaries in the will. No inheritance tax payable and the capital gains tax uplift. So that's changed now that there's tax payable on death, inherited tax payable on death. That's the main change. That is the main change. It's not likely to be necessarily taxable on first death. It's normally second death. Right. And there are still advantages of passing your estate, depending on the age of, you know, if the wife or the husband is much younger. Yeah. Passing the assets onto the surviving spouse, you do get that uplift in value. Right. So then any gifts could be made free of capital gains tax. And provided you survive this seven year gift, then you've effectively got away with inheritance tax and also capital gains tax. I see. But there is a lot of ifs, buts, maybes to be considered. And no one knows quite how long we're going to live for. No, exactly. So I guess in that scenario, structure will so that the first million utilises that allowance and the remainder goes to the spouse and take advice on that second death. The alternate strategy, of course, which potentially has motivated the government to bring these new rules in, is to gift farms and businesses in lifetime. So to preempt this, not pass it on through the will and transfer ownership of those businesses whilst you're still alive. What are the key tax considerations around that strategy then? There are certain reliefs and allowances that you can use when moving assets across. Normally when you're gifting something or creating moving assets around, there is a tax charge. Yeah. But as long as the assets qualify for certain criteria, mostly farmland, which is used in agriculture, will qualify for holdover relief. Yeah. So we can pass these assets on and mitigate any capital gains tax. All that does is store it up to the next generation if we're passing assets on. So the capital gains tax base value, that we call it, when father or mother inherited it, passes on to the next generation. So eventually there's a capital gain being stored up. Do you don't get that uplift that you talked about on death? No, you don't. That's right. Right. So when you pass away, you've got the uplift. You don't get on a gift during lifetime. The other thing to consider is if you're making lifetime gifts is it's all very well that if you survive the seven years, you've pulled your estate out from paying inheritance tax, but all you've done is load it up to the next generation. So there's got to be some consideration there. Do you take out any life insurance for the person who's been gifted it, the son, the daughter, just to safeguard if anything happens to them, what happens to their children or their spouse? Yeah. So there is a few considerations happen. And it's key just to get your accountants, solicitors, agents, whoever they are, around the table. And since the budget, pretty much that's what we've been doing, talking to clients, getting the background. Unfortunately, the government haven't come out with the legislation, so we haven't got the final detail. But there are some that are looking to move things now rather than wait until D-Day, 6th of April, 2026. So that's when it all comes in. And I know there's been some press around the dates in particular. So the rules are in place now as in if gifts are made, that is caught by inheritance tax if there's a death within seven years. So it's not that you can actually give assets away right now before 5th of April, 26th and avoid this. It was enacted effectively on the day of the budget, wasn't it? Yes, that's right. Yeah. Any gifts that are made need to survive this seven years. There is a tapering relief. So after three years of that gift, effectively only 80% of it will be caught within the estate to then be taxed 60-40, you know, until it's gone to the seven years. Yeah, yeah. So what I'm hearing, I guess, Ryan, is that the downside to accelerating those gifts is, albeit there would unlikely be any capital gains tax payable if there was a gift in lifetime because you could hold over that gain. And if the person gifting the business asset survives seven years, there's no lifetime inheritance or there's no inheritance tax payable either at that stage if the seven years has survived. But the downside feels to be the fact that the base cost doesn't uplift at the date of the gift. So if the next generation then come to sell that asset in the future, they may have a large gain and lots of capital gains tax payable. Whereas inheriting it through death, you get that uplift to market value at the date of death and that capital gain could be on a much smaller figure. So what was done in the budget with regard to capital gains tax rates? Because they were changed as well, weren't they? Yeah, that's true. There's a good point you highlight because they are discussions we're having about do we do the lifetime gift or do we hold it, that uplift in value. But I think the decisions that most are coming up with is actually the immediate tax problem is going to be the inheritance tax. Now if the next generation or the generation after decide to sell and they've got a lower base cost, they would have achieved some cash from the sale in order to mitigate the capital gains tax. The tax rates pre-budget were much more attractive with a rate of 10% or 20% effectively, now raising to 18% or 24%. So depending on whether you're at the basic rate band or into the higher rate tax band. So still better than a 40% inheritance tax. But if you're looking at paying capital gains at 24%, inheritance tax at potentially 20%, there's some considerations to have around there. But most things we can claim holdover relief and mitigate any capital gains tax. Yeah. Of course this also comes at a time when farmers are under commercial pressures on all sorts of different areas. What are you seeing from your clients currently? How are things going for the typical East Anglian farmer right now? Being in the area we are, Suffolk, Norfolk, predominantly arable farming. There are livestock farmers that we look after but predominantly dominated by arable. Livestock seems to be in a good place at the moment. Dairy, beef prices are good. But for arable, we've got very low commodity prices. Input costs have remained relatively high since we've had the inflation increases. Interest rates have increased. Lots of borrowing on farms. So variable loans, interest rates starting to pinch. So cash flow is becoming tight. And we are seeing a few overdrafts extended or restructuring debt within farms. So the picture is not exactly bright for farming at the moment. If you're not got a positive outlook. And for businesses as a whole at the moment, farmers aren't immune to the increase in the national living wage and the increase in national insurance. All those things are going to impact those businesses also. Yes, that's very true. Yeah. People that have a larger workforce, maybe more vegetable growers, large contractors. Yeah, we'll have a big workforce and that will impact them on their team. And not only does it just affect the minimum wage, there's a kind of step, you know, as you go up the grades or up the hierarchy within the firm that you're paying the lower members more. I'm close to them. I need to be paid a bit more and I need to be, you know, so it does have a real big impact. Yeah, we're seeing that across the board, aren't we? Where you've got a pay structure, a ladder, so to speak. You have to bring the bottom up and everyone else kind of has to move a little bit as well. And then there's, you know, increased national insurance on those costs as well. And of course, you know, going back to pre-Brexit days, there were farming incentives and farmers were, you know, received grants and such like. Has the phasing out of those types of post-Brexit equivalents been accelerated with the new government and the budget or are there still some grants to be had there? No, I don't think there's any, I don't think the grass is very green at the moment. Subsidies have been reduced from the budget. They were accelerated on basic payment monies. Right. So they're being eroded. There have been other initiatives, the stewardship scheme, which you can apply for, but also SFI, Sustainable Farming Initiative. Okay. And rather abruptly, they stopped taking new applications. So that has impacted that an income source they thought could replace basic payment monies is now not there for them. Okay. And there was also an announcement that there could be compulsory purchase in order to help the government meet their deadline or their target, I suppose, for building the amount of houses they need to 1.5 over the time of government. So, yeah, farming has been, seems to have been hit, pushed and knocked back. And we should be concentrating on food security and looking after our farmers in this country. Well, yeah. And if one thing, I don't know whether it's a silver lining, is that food security and agriculture, the British agricultural sector is much more high profile than, you know, as long as I can remember. And I think generally there's a lot of public support for some kind of action on certainly this inheritance tax policy. But more generally, it brings us back to, as you say, the withdrawal of support and even opening up the UK economy globally and what trade-offs will affect UK farming and the import of produce into the UK at lower standards. So there must be some real, real worried clients out there about how this is heading in. You know, we're talking about passing farming businesses on to the next generation. How are your clients feeling about their children taking these businesses forward into the next few decades? I only spoke to some farmers this morning who came in and were talking about their, you know, planning on their next steps and deciding where assets got to go. Two brothers that are looking to move their assets around and everything. And that same discussion came up. There's not enough young people coming into farming. Yeah. So that is going to be challenging. There's monies coming from outside farming because of the incentives of still having 20% relief on your inheritance. That jeopardizes the whole small family run farming business. Yeah. And I think we're going to see less and less of them going forward. Some will be resilient, but it's in their blood. They always want to farm, but we are finding the next generation are not always there. So they will get diluted and larger contractors will come in to manage that workload. You think that's where this will head eventually, I guess? I hope I'm wrong. Yeah. But I do think there'll be bigger operators, the ones that can afford the economies of scale in order to run this. Yeah. So Ryan, I guess the traditional structure of a farm is by way of a partnership, a farming partnership. But are you seeing more and more structured as limited companies these days? And how does that impact on these announcements in particular and general management of the long-term strategy? Yeah. You're dead right. Traditionally, partnerships have been the, I suppose, the organization that most farms operate through. There are historic limited companies that we've looked after that have been incorporated many, many, many years ago. And some that got much larger in a dilution of shareholders, you know, those kind of ones. More recently, there has been a sort of, I suppose, a separation of some of the activities, mainly from an income tax-driven point of view. So if they were diversifying, they may use a limited or a corporate structure and maybe some contracting. Yeah. So we might be able to separate the traditional farm, leave that within the partnership, and then they could do a contracting business. And that might be something that uses the next generation in order to give them some kind of platform for a business moving forward. The difference between the two is from an income tax but also from inheritance tax. When we look at agricultural relief, which you get on the land, when you operate through a limited company, which is a trading business, you get business property relief on the shares. Yeah. So that might be why the government made the two changes because they thought, wow, we'll go after the big rich, you know, landowner, the Dysons or Clarksons of the world. And that's how we'll catch them out. But as long as they're trading, then it would have got 100% relief. Now, you haven't got that luxury. You've still got the same as you would with agricultural relief. You've still got that £1 million cap. Yeah. The difference with farmers is they have a very, very high asset base. So they have got a problem from inheritance tax, whereas some family businesses and a majority of what we look after may lease their premises. They may not own all their assets. So they have a higher profit and a lower asset base. So they might not necessarily get pulled in with a husband and wife splitting, as we said, the £1 million relief. They could be fine. But with agriculture, you only need a few hundred acres, which is a relatively modest farm. Yeah. And they're kind of smack back in trouble. Yeah. Like you say, capping that threshold at the first million pounds, you know, with land prices as they are, I guess it doesn't take a very large farm for a typical husband-wife farming partnership to be brought into this new tax. And that seems to have been the intention because there's no going back on this, which is, as you say, keeping you and your colleagues extremely busy talking to people about this. Ever since I was on holiday, I think, when the budget was actually announced, phone calls, missed calls were on my phone already. And I was thinking, oh, dear, this budget is not going to be good. So there's a lot of panic in the industry. But you need to try not to let the tax tail wag the dog. There's a lot of people wanting to move assets all the way over. I want to get rid of everything. I want to, you know, free up. I don't want to pay the government all this tax. I can't believe what they're doing. But you need to look at the human aspects. Not only are you passing it on to the next generation, but most families, there's more than one child. You know, there's siblings. And how do they equalize or do they not equalize anymore? Traditionally, the eldest son got everything. Nowadays, that's not quite the case. There's less succession, less people coming into farming. So there is a different dynamic on how we need to do the planning. Yeah, yeah, of course. And I think it was really interesting that you said earlier that most people are leaning towards solving the inheritance tax problem or managing that problem and letting the next generation worry about the capital gains tax side of things. And I think certainly that strategy requires action. But I think what I've seen is that a number of clients that maybe haven't considered inheritance tax in too much detail. They are now stepping forward and saying, right, let's just have a look at what my assets are, what my inheritance tax liability would be, and whether there's some easy wins. Because quite often where you've got maybe a varied portfolio of assets, there are some easy wins. There may be some buy-to-let properties that you don't necessarily need the income from that you can gift away. There may be some cash. There may be some investments. So there are actions that can be taken. Now, admittedly, around farming, where the trading business is the farmland, that's a little bit more difficult to achieve. And also, complicated by the fact, and this will be the subject of another podcast, that pensions are now coming into inheritance tax in 2027. And so lots of changes and lots of discussions to be had. But I guess your message is really to speak to your advisor and try and understand as a starting point, what's the worst case scenario? Because there may well be some actions that can be taken that are palatable and those that aren't palatable and just need to be talked about, don't they? Yeah, you're right. You've summarised really well. And I think that's exactly what we've been doing. We've been having the initial meetings. We've been assessing what the assets are. Now, that might be valuations they've given us rather than from an agent or, you know, a Red Book valuation. But we've got an idea then what assets they've got. We've looked at what the exposure is to inheritance tax. And then we've got our ducks in a row, really. Then the difficulties, the emotional part is where do these assets go? Who gets what? And that's the tricky part. Once we can get over that hurdle and we know where they're going to go to, we can then come in the middle and make sure we can do that in the most tax efficient way. Yeah, I think you're right. All too often tax motivates the initial discussion but doesn't end up governing the end result because it's about, especially with farm, we're talking about families here and next generation children, grandchildren and such like. And quite often these farms have been passed down already. And so to ensure that, you know, that the business continues is not just about saving some tax right now, but about a lot more than that, isn't it? Yeah. I guess the final point for me as somebody that doesn't look after too many agricultural businesses is just to say that, of course, these rules, as you alluded to, do impact on trading businesses as well. That used to be excluded from inheritance tax under business property relief rules. There'll be some people that have farmland and trading businesses, many more that are shareholders and directors of family companies. And much of what we've talked about today does apply as well. So, you know, please speak to your advisor. If you're a Love Will Blake client, do get in touch. And I'm sure you've been discussing these things already. But ultimately, I think it's an area that isn't going to change. I think it's quite clear that the chance for a U-turn was probably the spring statement and that's now passed. Yeah, you're right. Yeah, that has passed. And as you brought up that point about other businesses, you've still got the same thing within agriculture that we've looked at the inheritance tax position. And actually, the budget has not had much of an impact on them. They've got enough land and enough succession planned already. Yeah. But the inheritance tax has all triggered from their non-relievable assets. So the extra cottage or the investments or the pension and things like that. So it's, yeah, you're right, it affects all walks of life. And not all my clients that are in agriculture are affected by the budget changes. They already were. Yeah. I think this has been fantastic to talk through this. This is an ever-changing picture. If there are any changes that are really relevant, we will meet again very soon. If not, I think we should get together again later in the year, maybe recap on this year's budget. And as we near that deadline of April 2026, this is going to become even more important. So I certainly think there's more discussions to be had as we get closer to that date. So thank you for joining me, Ryan. Pleasure, James. Thanks for having me. No problem at all. And thanks, everyone, for tuning in. And join us again next time. She kind of heals the place. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye.