How Does Equipment Leasing Work?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H6xXORaU7Jo
People & Blogs
 Thanks for tuning to Grow by Joe. In this video, I'm going to talk about how does equipment leasing work and everything that you'll need in order to finance a piece of equipment. Equipment leasing is a great financing product and a great tool that you can use to finance just about any piece of equipment. It's definitely something that's worth looking into because it can really help with your cash flow and not have to pull a bunch of money out of your business in order to purchase whatever that new piece of equipment is. A lot of business owners think that this process is really difficult to finance equipment. It really isn't. What is difficult is there's a lot of old-school lenders out there that offer equipment financing but are really just outdated with their processes. So, over the years, we've been able to simplify that plot process. We've been able to help business owners all across the country finance and lease equipment and we've made the process really simple and easy. And I'll talk about that later on how I can help you finance equipment. But really, the way that it works is it's really simple. Most equipment financing leasing lenders all across the US will allow you to purchase your equipment from really any vendor that's out there as long as they're a legitimate and established vendor. What the lender does is they actually purchase that piece of equipment right from that vendor and then they lease it back to you. If you default, that piece of equipment is held as collateral. So, the lender can take back that piece of equipment. What's important when you're going to find equipment is is it a dollar buyout or is it a fair market value equipment lease? Those 2 things are really important. So, really what this means is at the end of the lease and the end of all your payments, there'll be a dollar buyout. You literally pay $1 and own that piece of equipment or it's a fair market value lease and at the end of that lease, you have to pay whatever that fair market value is to own outright that piece of equipment. Usually, the best type of lease is going with the dollar buyout. It's really simple, it's easy to understand and I would stick to going with the dollar buyout type of lease. So, as I mentioned earlier, an equipment leases are a really great way to manage your cash flow. And what I mean by that is instead of having to lay out a ton of money to purchase that piece of equipment, you can keep it in your business, finance that piece of equipment. Another great thing about using equipment financing and leasing is that the lien is against that piece of equipment. It's not against your business. So, by financing a piece of equipment, you're not tying up other things in your business which is great. Most lenders will have anywhere from 1 to 5-year terms and they usually do monthly payments that are auto debited out of your bank account. Some do weekly, most do monthly. They'll all get auto debited out of your bank account. At the end of that term, there's usually a dollar buyout, you own that piece of equipment. So, a $25,000 piece of equipment over a 5-year term will be about $500 a month. So, think about that. If you can keep $25,000 to $50,000 in your bank account, finance it over a 5-year term, your payment will be anywhere from $500 to $1,000. And most pieces of equipment that you're going to put into your business will usually generate, you know, like $25,000 piece of equipment in your business, you know, can that piece of equipment generate more than $500, you know, a month, you know, in income to the business. If so, you've made a great choice and you've also kept 25,000 bucks in your pocket in your business bank account that you can use for other things like working capital, expansion, etc. And then the last thing that I'll wrap up with is there are some programs available that will allow you to lease any piece of equipment up to about 100 to $150,000 by just completing a simple application and not actually even providing any financing documentation. So, there's some great products out there because they're utilizing that a piece of equipment as a collateral, there are some lenders that will finance equipment up to that amount with just an application. You'll typically need at least a 620 credit score or higher. Don't worry if your credit score is below that 620 to 640 range. There are some other financing products that are out there that you can still lease that piece of equipment over a longer term. You might just have to put some money down or you might just have to provide some financial supporting documentation to support that piece of equipment purchase. So, I hope you found this video helpful. I tried to keep it really short, simple and sweet so it was easy to understand. If you are looking to lease equipment, it's absolutely something I can help you out with and one of the members of my team would love to explore some different options with you. Check out that link below and fill in your information out. Someone will get back to you and we'll get that piece of equipment financed immediately. I hope this again, I hope this was helpful. Thanks for tuning in to Grow by Joe and we'll talk soon. Take care.