A Pig's Tale - Sows in gestation crates
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HachwkjOUJA
Pets & Animals
 Welcome to Our Farm. My name is Erin Anger and I'm from Dyke Heist Farms. We're located in Holland, Michigan. Today we'll be talking about individual sow housing. We house our sows in these modern pork facilities for various reasons. In Michigan, we have cold winters, so in the winter we can keep our sows in these barns with extra heat to keep them warm. In the summer, we have supplemental cooling to keep them cool. We also keep them safe from predators. The benefits of housing sows in individual stalls are that we can monitor their feed and water intake daily. We can also feed sows as individuals. We are also able to monitor their health daily. On our farm, we use antibiotics to treat sick animals. We work with our veterinarians so that we give the right antibiotics to the right sows for the right reasons and at the right time. The workers are trained to be able to tell if a sow is too fat or too thin and then adjust the amount of feed that they're given every day. The workers are also trained to be able to tell if the sows are healthy or not. We house our sows in these individual stalls because sows can be very aggressive when they're mixed. When we keep them in these individual stalls, we can protect them from fighting with each other. The biggest challenge of housing sows in individual stalls is the public perception that they don't have enough room. In reality, the sows have enough room to stand up, move around and lay down comfortably, and we're able to easily give them individual care. And to explore that. To speak yes we always want to have access to. Remember that you have all Ministerial or you remember your inner sloths haven't been under. We appreciate it. Anyway, you're very good. We don't have that. I'm going to live to all of our history. I don't know. Much. Have a perfect day. Be a perfect day. methods to help? And we work. Hope you're good. I'm gonna make it. You're motivating you. Hope you can help us. Have a perfect day. You're promising to be interesting. If you were. Then we can get paid linearly.