Building a Long-Term Food Storage Pantry: My 2024 Survival Secrets
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hAki_LlKYZg
People & Blogs
 Hi everyone, it's Chris from Gardening at the Simonghetti North. Welcome or welcome back to my channel. Today I thought I'd take a quick road trip into Midland to the Costco and look to see if there's any items that I might want to add to my pantry for long term food storage or just to have to continue to build up my pantry and just see what they have. So I thought I would take you along and see if you might be interested in seeing what Costco has today. So why don't we go in and I'll take you through and we'll see what they have on sale. I'm not sure what I'm going to end up buying today. I really don't need a whole lot. I need to get my pantry built so I can get the stuff in the pantry and then decide what else I need to buy. But if there's something that's really a good deal, I'm probably going to buy it and then just add it to my pantry. So let's go in and go check it out. Here we go. Okay. freedom Looks like they're starting to get some of their garden stuff out. Grass seed and all of that. Oh, there's my coffee. I gotta go get my coffee. Brown beef. Organic brown beef. This is 1989. And they're like 1.34 pounds each. So if you need to stack your freezer, I got some stuff here. Chicken breast, $5.99 a pound. Organic chickens. Two of them for like $33 or $29 depending on the size. And some Kirkland butter. Grass fed. Put it in the freezer. Get some eggs. Two dozen. Two dozen. $7.49. Two dozen. $7.49. Two dozen. $7.49. Two dozen. $7.49. Here's the water aisle. Two dozen. Two dozen. Two dozen. Two dozen. $7.49. There's the water aisle. Here's the water aisle. You should get the spring mountain. There's 40 bottles for $6.49. That's a good deal. I'll rotate that through. And then they got the Kirkland. Those are only 8-ounce bottles, but 80 of them for $8.99. So they're a little bit smaller. Good for the kids. Six cans of the Kirkland chicken breast for $12.79. If you like salmon, this three-pound bag for $33.99. These are all individually wrapped. And it's good. It's a good deal. Here's the Michigan Kirkland raw honey. That is $13.49. Honey lasts for pretty much forever if you take care of it. I won't get any this time. Wildflower honey. Organic raw honey. The smaller containers. 10 pounds of rolled oats. The Kirkland for $7.99. That's a good thing for long-term storage. And then they also have the Quaker for $10.99 for two five-pound bags. So the other one is definitely a better deal. Here's the baking aisle. Here's the baking aisle. Here's the baking aisle. 50 pounds of powdered sugar. Does anyone ever need 50 pounds? Holy cow, that's a lot. Granulated sugar. 50 pounds for $32.99. 25 pounds for $16.69. 10 pounds for $6.99. Sugar. And then organic cane sugar for 10 pounds for $9.49. So all of this is good for long-term storage if you store it properly. Brown sugar, $5.49. Let's see. How many pounds is this? Seven pounds. That's seven pounds. We've got flour. Two 10-pound bags for $17.49. 25-pound bag all-purpose flour. 12-pound bags of King Arthur all-purpose flour for $9.49. And then we also have a 10-pound King Arthur bread flour for $7.99. Not that one. That one. Pizza flour. Gluten-free flour. Almond flour. Over on this side we have spices and oils. Sprays. Avocado oil. Coconut oil. Here's the avocado oil. Organic. One liter for $15.99. Olive oils. Some organic. Spices as well. This bone broth is a really good deal. I bought this before. You get six. What is it? Four cup servings. I think they're 32 fluid ounces a piece. I think I'll get one of these again. So here's some organic beef stock for $14.99. And you get six resealable cartons. I think I might get one of those too. I said I wasn't going to get a whole lot. I said I wasn't going to get a whole lot. But look at this. I got to get out of here soon. Some soups. Lunch. I have some. Two jarhouston겠다製 Wortes olives. olives ketchup mustard condiments two jars of alfredo sauce for $10.99 that's like almost $8 for one at the regular store pasta $7.49 $9.99 for this organic dehydrated potatoes we got rice definitely great for long term storage basmati missori I showed rice in the last video organic tomato sauces 12 cans for $11.99 tomato paste 12 cans 6 ounces for $8.99 these are great for pantry items to stock and rotate organic diced 8 cans for $8.99 14.5 ounces so there's definitely some stuff here to fill your pantry with so the things I didn't see were those straws for water filtration or any type of water filtration stuff maybe that's still coming their camping stuff isn't quite out yet they're just starting to get their gardening stuff out so it might be a little early for that but we will definitely check back later on in the upcoming months to find more stuff for emergency preparedness and long term food storage so we're going to go through the checkout and we'll be out of here so I got everything loaded up in the car and I'm going to get ready to head home it's about a 45 minute drive to head home and then I got to unload everything let the dogs out but hey if you like this video please smash that like button and if you saw anything in Costco that you like maybe you'll want to head over there and add it to your pantry so you know share this video and don't forget to subscribe so in the winter time I'm going to be focusing more on emergency preparedness and long term food storage and soon we'll be starting seeds for the garden so there's going to be some seeds that need to get started pretty soon so that will be coming up pretty soon as well and hey hope you enjoyed this video hope to see you at the next one God bless bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye