Whole Farm Assessment of Nutrient Extraction from Dairy Manure
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=heJS21BOjGI
Education
 Well, I'm Al Rotz, I'm an agricultural engineer with USDA Agricultural Research Service at University Park, Pennsylvania. And what I'm going to be talking about today is a little project that we've done over the past year, looking at whole farm assessments of nutrient extraction technologies. We're developing a model that takes a better look at this. Co-authors are colleagues of mine, and they include Clint Church, who's the mastermind, I guess, behind the MAPEX system. And he had a talk yesterday on that. Well, as the theme of this conference goes, and we all know, manure is a beneficial resource. It has value for the nutrients, but even more now, as we look at the soil health and organic matter carbon sequestration, it's all kind of tied together. Manure does have value. But of course, it has its challenges. And a big one is just a low concentration of nutrients, and fairly ununiform, often distribution of the nutrients within the material. Our dairy farms, in particular, are getting larger and larger. And often that means more animals per unit of land, more purchase feed, bringing nutrients in, over-applying nutrients onto the farm and build up of excess nutrients. And we have nutrients we have to get rid of. So this has led to the development. And, you know, there's a lot of work now being, a lot of thought being put into different types of extraction technologies that can be used on dairy farms. I've listed a few here. But I guess our view of this was that, you know, it might be good to have a tool that cannot really look at how these technologies will impact the actual farm. How do they interact with all the other parts of the farm? And ultimately, what are the production costs and the impact on profitability, farm nutrient losses, the resources, particularly fertilizer that have to be brought in in conjunction with the use of the technologies and that sort of thing. And we also wanted to look at some life cycle impacts. Greenhouse gases, of course, is a big one that gets a lot of interest now, and fossil energy use was another one that we looked at. So our objective in this particular study was to perform a comprehensive assessment of phosphorus extraction, in particular, from dairy manure. And we were using a decanter centrifuge for this particular study. We're kind of using this as an example of how we could implement this type of technology in the model and do a whole farm assessment. So the model we're using is the integrated farm system model. This is a tool that's been under development for an application for many years. We've used it to look at a wide range of technologies and strategies for dairy farms and beef production systems. So what we needed to do here was just to develop a new component and put into this model to represent these extraction technologies. And again, we tried to be pretty general in the formation of this model so that it could be applied to various technologies. And then after doing that, then we wanted to look at how it actually fit into an actual farm in Pennsylvania. And we looked at the farm in two different ways. First is the base farm, the way it is today. The farm's in a long-term nutrient balance, basically. There's enough land there. They're producing enough feed to recycle all the nutrients. And then we wanted to look at what if we were reducing that farm area some, and there was excess phosphorus that they really needed to get rid of. How does that affect things? A little more on the model itself. It is a whole farm process level simulation. So we're simulating, as shown, indicated here, all the major components of the farm, looking at the flow of nutrients in and out of the farm and and among the various components. So it really does look at a lot of the interactions. So if you change one part of the system, how does it affect all the other parts of the system? The model does predict various gaseous emissions, greenhouse gases, ammonia, hydrogen sulfide, and DOCs. Also denitrification losses of N2O and NO2. Nitrate leaching, runoff losses of phosphorus and nitrogen, and so forth. It does do a whole farm balance of each of the major nutrients, as illustrated here, with phosphorus. It kind of tracks all the phosphorus in and out through the system. It also includes a cradle to farm gate lifecycle assessment, as illustrated here. We have the greenhouse gases that are coming directly off the farm, either in terry from the animal, and then the emissions from the manure, and so forth. But we also look at what we call the upstream emissions, those that would occur as we develop, produce resources that are being used on the farm, fuel, electricity, fertilizer, and that sort of thing. So that's where we get the cradle to farm gate. Everything that goes up to the point where that milk leaves the farm is accounted for. As far as the extraction component, the technology can be used to extract or export whatever the user defines as coming out. Okay? So it can be any combination of nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium. Again, we're trying to be kind of general in the way we set it up so it can represent a wide variety of applications. And by entering the initial costs and labor prices and fuel electricity prices and so forth, it does do an economic analysis to look at the effect on cost of the farm. And then, of course, it looks at all the interactions. As you change the nutrient cycling, how does that affect crop production and various environmental impacts of the farm? So the base farm that we're working with here is an actual farm, or it's representing an actual farm in Pennsylvania. We have 2,000 hosting cows and replacements. Pretty good milk production rate of 24,600 pounds per cow. We have 34, yeah, 3,450 acres of cropland. Again, that's enough to produce all the feed, essentially, for these animals, where they're a very major part, all the grain and forage. So we're producing alfapagrass, corn, and rye for feeding the animals. The lactating cows are maintained in freestall barns with a flush manure system, and we have a screw press that's extracting the manure solids and their recyclers bedding. Something that's maybe somewhat unique about our region, it's called the Ridge and Valley region. You can see here this, you see the long ridges and the long narrow valleys between them. So a farm of this size can really stretch out long distances. So they're hauling this feed for fairly long distances, and then of course returning that manure very long distances if they want to redistribute that uniformly throughout the farm. So as an alternate, then we wanted to look at something actually that the actual farm is considering, and that's to do away with the flush system and go to a scrape system. How does that affect the farm, for one, and then the use of the centrifuge? The other was to reduce the cropland down to 2,700 acres. We got rid of any corn grain production. We bought and brought in all the corn grain, and this created a surplus of phosphorus that had to be removed. So in terms of the original farm then, by using this centrifuge, we were able to reduce the hauling distance by about 50 percent and the number of trucks by about 30 percent. What we're doing here, instead of hauling all the manure out to all the fields, we extract a large portion of the phosphorus into a concentrated material that can be hauled much more conveniently to the outside areas, and it also leaves the remaining manure with a higher n-to-p ratio that's more suitable for the areas close by the farm facility. So that's what we're really modeling here, and that's the impact. So all that is the annual fuel use in manure handling was decreased 16 percent. This was offset by a 79 percent increase in electricity to drive the centrifuge and the pumps and so forth that are associated with that. So overall, the energy cost did increase. The annual cost of owning and maintaining the equipment increased. Labor costs decreased a little over $27,000 per year here. So it wasn't an economic win with this system. With the better distribution of phosphorus, we did find a slightly less, a slight decrease in the phosphorus runoff losses from the farm. Going to a screw press then, we were working with a more concentrated manure because we weren't recycling all that flush water. So we got by with one less screw press. So we had two in the original farm and went down to one. This reduced the electricity consumption, energy costs were reduced to 24 percent. Labor costs increased 65 percent because we were now using a scrape system, where in this case we were using a skid steer or tractor to scrape that manure, which required some labor. Overall, the manure handling cost did decrease 9 percent. Slight increase in soluble P runoff with this type of system, while the sediment P runoff decreased. And overall, the farm gate life cycle energy consumption decreased about 2 percent. No real impact on greenhouse gas emissions. Then when we put the the extracting the centrifuge in with the scrape system, it was more economical. Okay, we were able to get more efficient extraction of the phosphorus for one, and then we were we greatly reduced the volume of material that had to go through the centrifuge. So electricity use increased and fuel consumption decreased as compared to without the centrifuge. A little effect really on the environment other than there was a two percent increase in the farm gate intensity of fossil energy use, which kind of offset what we just saw that they saved by going to a scrape system. Equipment and labor costs reduced and the centrifuge extraction reduced the total annual cost by about two thousand dollars a year. So not it's positive anyhow, I guess it's pretty much break even, I guess, when you look at the long term terms of the overall cost of operating the farm. When we went to the system that with the smaller farm with excess P that we wanted to get rid of, use of the the centrifuge, we had to use it about eight hours per day to extract the excess surplus P. Okay, the in this case, the model calculated that there was around 16,500 pounds of P that had to be removed from the farming system to maintain a long-term balance. So operating at eight hours per day increased the equipment and electric energy costs with some small increases in facility and labor costs to maintain the equipment. Increased the annual manure handling costs by a little over $18,000 a year. So looking at what the cost was to remove that P, that comes out to a little over a dollar a pound of P removed from the farm. So you're ending up with this material that really does have some pretty high value as far as a P fertilizer source and maybe for other uses as well. But nevertheless, the cost for producing that material is still more than the cost of just buying phosphate fertilizer. So perhaps for organic markets and such, you know, it would be a little bit more economical. So in summary, I guess use of the centrifuge for P extraction on a dairy farm, it really appears less feasible and pretty on economical when used with a flush system, just because of the sheer volume of material that you have to continually recycle through the system. But with this great manure system, the increased extraction costs may be more than offset by the reduced transport costs. You know, when we're looking at these large farms where we have to haul it for long distances, as we saw, it was economical to extract the P. By extracting a significant portion of the P from the manure, you do end up with a better end to P ratio in the remaining manure. Again, it could be used close by where you have this more concentrated P that can be transported longer distances more efficiently and more cost effectively. So if you have excess phosphorus to get off the farm, you know, the centrifuge provides a material with a high P concentration that can be exported for other uses. But the cost of producing that P, if you're comparing it, particularly the fertilizer, you know, it's not necessarily a win. But I mean, again, there's the organic market, and there's also more nutrients left in this than just the phosphorus too, that we haven't really properly accounted for. So it does have more value than just the phosphorus itself. And of course, a cost that's really hard to put a value on is the long term potential impact, I guess, on eutrophication. You know, so there is this long term reducing risk, you know, for eutrophication by pulling out, extracting this phosphorus and using it more efficiently. So there's a benefit to society there that's really hard to put a value in. So in conclusion, I guess this is primarily a research tool, but we feel it's a good tool that we can be can be used to evaluate a wide range of these different types of technologies that can be used. For this particular study, it was just published in Applied Engineering and Agriculture, if you'd like to look it up and get more detail on the use of the decanter centrifuge on a dairy farm. Thank you. One important question. So in the presentation, your annual cost or total annual cost sounds worrying, is that included an estimated capital cost? And so how did like an annualized capital cost be used? The annualized capital cost on the centrifuge and other equipment that was being used? Yeah, when you sign like total annual cost, the annual cost. Did that include any cost? Oh, sure. Yep. We're amortizing the initial costs over the lifetime of the equipment and putting that in with the annual cost, along with any electricity use and labor total operating costs.