Alabama Beef Systems Videos: How to Collect a Hay Sample
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hfFdtToCypo
Education
 Collecting hay samples and having them analyzed are important steps in understanding if your forage program meets the nutritional needs of livestock. A forage analysis provides crucial information on nutritional value of stored forages such as hay and helps producers be more efficient in their feed resource decision-making. Equipment required for collecting a hay sample includes a forage probe, a mixing bucket, and sample bags. Each county extension office has a forage probe that can be used to collect samples on a farm. The forage probe is operated using an electric drill. Hay samples can be collected following baling if the bales are to be stored in a barn or near the time of feeding. Allow enough time for test results to be returned to determine if supplemental feeds are needed. A two to three week window is recommended for planning a sample submission and return. Test each lot of forage separately. A lot is defined as hay that was harvested at the same time out of the same field and under the same conditions. For example, if you had four hay cuttings during the season, collect a representative sample from each cutting. Use a hay probe to collect 15 to 20 core samples from individual bales within each lot. Insert the probe into the bale at a 90 degree angle. For a round bale, insert the probe into the curved side of the bale and sample towards the center. For a square bale, insert the probe into the center of the end of the bale. Remove the probe by reversing the direction of the drill. Detach the probe from the drill and empty the sample into a bucket. After sampling a complete lot 15 to 20 core samples, thoroughly mix the samples in the bucket and place a sub sample in a one quart plastic bag. The bag should be at least half full. Label each sample, obtain an analysis form, and submit the sample and the form to a certified forage testing laboratory near you. The laboratory will send you a summary report with information on the nutritional value of the sample. This report can then be used to help create a supplementation plan for your livestock. You can also work with your local animal science and forage regional extension agent or county extension office to submit a sample for analysis. We are here to help you build great management practices for your operation. For more information on forms and laboratory locations, visit the Alabama Extension website.