Marcrest 210 Baler
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hh_T5k4mJeQ
People & Blogs
 From the inventors of Bale Baron, the world's most popular small bale bundler, comes the next innovation hay growers have been waiting for. Introducing, Marcrest's all-new, high-capacity, commercial-grade baler, the Marcrest 210. The baler that's made for Bale Baron. Setting the new pace for hay bale production, the Marcrest 210 baler eliminates the productivity bottleneck of traditional balers and provides the first integrated windrow-to-bundle system for high-volume small bale production. Now, with the Marcrest 210 baler and Bale Baron 5250, hay growers are maximizing operational efficiency by significantly increasing output per person. With only one operator, a single tractor, and the complete Marcrest system, you can now bale and bundle up to 25 US tons of hay per hour. At 6 to 7 flakes in a 50-pound bale, that equals 1,000 bales per hour. For bales with 8 to 9 flakes, the 210 baler still achieves 19 US tons, or 750 standard-sized 50-pound bales per hour. And, for high-density 70-pound bales with 8 flakes, the Marcrest 210 reaches 30 US tons per hour with output up to 850 bales. By matching the bundling capacity of the Bale Baron 5250 and working in line, the new Marcrest 210 baler provides unparalleled performance and profitability per ton of hay that's ready for market, all in one step. Just like the Bale Baron, the Marcrest 210 baler is designed and built for commercial-grade use. Producing a sturdy, uniform bale every time, the heavy-duty frame and premium components offer a new level of durability for balers with reduced maintenance and ultimately longer life. Approaching the windrow, the 210 baler's unique feeding system quickly processes large and even lumpy windrows with consistency and with minimal leaf disturbance. The maintenance-free camless pickup head automatically adjusts the intake rate based on ground speed. Minimum ground clearance of the pickup head can also be set using the swivel wheels. Marcrest's unique double auger and rotor system ensures the 210 is continuously fed a steady volume of hay into the chamber. If the intake is unexpectedly overwhelmed, critical overload protections are in place including a ratcheting auger clutch, an auto-reset rotor clutch, stuffer shear bolt, and mainline drive auto-reset clutch at the flywheel. Simply slow down the RPMs and the 210 will re-engage on the fly. Powered by the momentum of its 380-pound flywheel, the 210 baler packs the hay tight at 120 strokes per minute and with triple hydraulic compression for a firm bale that's controlled from inside the cab. While maintaining the common 14 by 18 inch bale size, the 210 baler's 3-string configuration enhances bale shape and integrity. Bale quality is also improved by utilizing a tailless knotter that prevents twine cut-offs from contaminating the bale with indigestible plastic. Managing all hydraulic functions of the 210 is the onboard hydraulic pump and manifold, made for reliability. Connecting the 5250T bale baron is also streamlined with pass-through hydraulic lines at the rear of the baler. Maintenance and servicing the Marc Crest 210 baler is designed to be quick and easy. The main driveline components are gearbox driven and only require greasing every 250 hours. The top and side shields open for unobstructed access and clean-out doors are also conveniently located for the stuffer, rotor and chamber. And with a holding capacity of 21 twine spools, the 210 baler is ready to go the distance. It all adds up to more baling with less downtime. Combine less downtime with high volume productivity and you've got a new standard for small square balers. One operator, one tractor and over 25 tons of hay per hour baled, bundled and ready to ship. All in one step. The all-new high capacity commercial grade baler together with Bale Baron 5250. The first integrated Windrota bundle system for high volume hay production by Marc Crest. The Marc Crest 210 baler. The baler that's made for Bale Baron. Contact Marc Crest or your local Marc Crest dealer for more information about the new Marc Crest 210 baler. Rei Beler is L.A. Ben Bowler. Ben Bowler!