Vintage Surge Bucket Milker Assembly- Family Cow Milking Tutorial
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hHpTALC7r6c
Howto & Style
 Today I'm going to show you guys how I set up my Surge Bucket Milker and how I milk my cows. My name is Mackenzie and you are watching Little Farfuck. So I'm going to start by getting my milker off of my shelf. We purchased used Surge Bucket Milker pieces and we were able to refurbish them. We bought new replacement pieces from Hamby Dairy Supply and I'll link that down below. And I'll also link some of the YouTube videos that we watched teach ourselves how to do this. When we bought the Bucket Milker in different pieces, I think we paid like $25 for this part here. And then we kind of added on. We were able to like assemble a Bucket Milker, two of them, with Mod Podge pieces. And then some of them even came with the hooks. That's where I'm getting to. Some of them even came with the hooks, which is really nice for drawing, especially in our very tiny house. So the first piece that I have is the actual collection bucket. It looks like this. You will find on the market there are two different types of Surge Buckets. You will find this one that is completely stainless steel, no seams. And then you will find another one that will have a seam here. That seam is going to be from 1950s and lower. Because they didn't have the ability. I think it wasn't until World War II. Was it World War II? They didn't have the ability to forge all stainless steel. And so they had a welded piece here. And that actually, the earlier model that has the welded piece, the welded seam here, isn't complete stainless steel. I think it's like a different type of like alloy. And then you'll find, too, that after World War II, they would keep this part all stainless steel. But this handle would actually be a different type of metal, too, because they wanted to keep the stainless steel for other war efforts, basically. That's what I've read. So this is the bucket that I have here. I'm going to go set it on my kitchen counter and I'll grab the rest of the pieces. Okay. Order a few of these because they're really easy to lose. They are like $18, but they're definitely worth having on hand. The pin goes inside the lid here. And it keeps the back flow of the milk forward over well from getting inside the pulsator. This pulsator model is a C. And I can tell because there are two bars in there that are flat. And the head of the pulsator has these two, almost like a rectangle, but then it's rounded at the top where the pin goes in. So I know that's a C. You'll also need to know when you buy your milker what type of pulsator. Is this either a C or an S? And that's how we can tell. So this is how my lid is assembled. So pulsator pin, lid piece, O-ring. Now I'm going to go ahead and put together. I'm going to put this on my lid first. Let's do that first. This is how I do it. My bucket milker, it has this hook here. This hook slides right on like this. You have to put it on all assembled or the pulsator won't, it won't come off because of this handle. So all this has to go on at once. And I like doing it all at once too. So now I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to grab my inflations and the steel tubes that go around the inflations. These are called inflations here. And this is what goes around the teat. And then the air that goes in the tubes is what causes it to pull, basically. So I have four inflations. And again, these came from Amby Dairy. We didn't buy, we didn't use the old ones because they were all dry rotted. You'll find that a lot when you're looking at milkers, that these will always be like dry rotted and nasty. So, okay. And then these are the steel, I don't know what they're called, tubing that goes around the inflations. And so this just fits perfectly inside here like this. You never want water to get in between your, in between these two areas. So always make sure they're really dry when you assemble it. Because if you don't, what's going to happen is the water is going to come right through this tube and go right into your vacuum pump and ruin your vacuum pump. So then it just has this seal around here, right? Like that. So for my milking routine, I'm still, we had our second cow freshened. So I actually have two cows in milk. This is the first time I've ever had two cows in milk. So I'm kind of fumbling through it. I also just had a really bad go with her freshening. Anything that could have gone wrong, did go wrong. Like she got milk fever before she calved, ketosis, and then a touch of, I'm going to, it's, I'm going to say it, say it was mastitis. I don't think it was really mastitis. I think it was more of a clogged duct. But I did end up giving her antibiotics to err on the side of caution. Just from what I was seeing from her CMT test. Thank you, Laurel. So I just, I did. And so she actually just is coming off of her 72-hour antibiotic withdrawal. So this is a, should be the first day that I can actually collect and keep the milk, which is really exciting. But yeah, it's just been like a rough go. So I'm fumbling through it. The next thing I like to do is just get a little bit of water and run it through here because it slides on so much into the milker right here when it's wet. So just a little bit of water, run through the sink. So we actually just got a dishwasher. So when it comes to sanitizing and cleaning everything, I can take all the pieces apart except for the pulsator and run it through the dishwasher. And it's like heaven. Because I didn't, I don't have to do it all by hand. Now, I will show you probably in another video, or maybe I'll split this one into a few videos. I will show you how to wash and sterilize everything by hand. And if, from what I've researched, if I was a small commercial dairy. Ah! Ah! Okay, I'm making a video. I'm making a video. We locked him in the jail cell. He's hairy. Who? What? Huh? Okay, go get him. Now, I'm on. I'm locked it. Okay, I'm making a video right now. Shh, shh, shh. Okay. Um. If I was a small commercial dairy, I would probably have to re-sanitize all of my equipment before I use it. Um. But because this is just for our family's consumption, I don't have any type of certification. Um. In Pennsylvania, the sale of raw milk is legal. But there's two different certifications you can do. You can do for human consumption or for pet milk. Um. Pet milk is the easiest one to get around. Around. You can still sell it to humans, obviously, and say, our family drinks it. Um. It's kind of like a side skirting. But I haven't taken time to do it. It requires, um, some more equipment. I would need, like, a vat for rapid cooling. And I'm just not there yet. So maybe one day I'll be there, but not today. So, um. The next thing to do is to hook up the air tubes to the, um, equation. So right here. This goes to here. A lot of people have asked me if I like our surge bucket milker. Um. To, like, another more modern milker. But to be honest, I've never actually used another one. This is all we've had. Um. It was much more affordable than some of the newer milkers. I think by the time that we bought all the, all of the pieces, um, like I said, we got these for, like, $25. They were super cheap off of Facebook Marketplace. And we just went around and scrounged up a bunch of different pieces. Um. It cost about $200 for all the replacement parts. But we got two sets. So maybe it would only be, like, $100. And then our vacuum pump cost about $300 off of eBay. So all in, we were about $500, $600. Um. Which was really good compared to some of the other things. I much prefer, um, milking this way rather than hand milking. I actually really don't like hand milking. I think it's a ton of work. A ton of time. And I like being able to, especially because we have multiple cows. I like being able to be down there hooking one cow up to the milker. I can be mucking out stalls. I can be feeding other cows. I can be getting hay. It saves a lot of my time down at the milking stand. Where I'd rather be in here cleaning, taking apart, sanitizing things. Because I can be delegating jobs to my kids. Or homeschooling. Um. And so I'd rather not be in the field sitting on a bucket milking. I'd rather just be in here. And I know it's just personal preference. A lot of homesteaders love to hand milk. Some people say that hand milk preserves the teats better. And all these things. But this is what fits for our family. And that's what this whole video is going to be about. Is what fits for our family. What I've researched. What I've found. And what I've implemented. If you do something different. Or you want to do something different. That's totally okay. But this is just what we do. So now I'm going to go ahead and get my cart ready. So I'll show you guys my cart next. So this is my milking cart. Um. Our milking kitchen is actually on our neighbor's property. And it's pretty rustic. It's just a three-sided thing. It's nothing really fancy. Um. I don't leave anything down there. Because it's not a clean place to leave things. Mice could chew through things. So I just have my cart. And I store everything. Um. That I need right here. My basement door. Under this. The door that we typically don't open. To kind of keep it all there. The other thing is. Because our pump is. A little bit more on the cheaper side. You could say. It doesn't withstand cold weather really well. Just kind of sputters. And has a hard time. So if I found. The first year that I used it. If I left it in our garage. Or in the barn. It wouldn't warm up really well. And so keeping it in my basement. Actually keeps it. So sluggish. It's not a big deal for me. But it's just something that. Consider. If you buy a pump. And it's not. A super nice one. You might have to. Baby. Okay. In this next shot. I. Uh. My audio cut out. Really bad. So I'm just going to do a voiceover. So right here. I'm just explaining my cart. Um. This is just one that I got. From Tractor Supply. I use a cart. Because it's at our neighbor's house. I have to bring everything. Back and forth. I have a specific setup. For everything. And where it goes. In my cart. As far as being able to reach the plugs. Um. So water's not splashing. On my pump. And um. Dirty things aren't touching each other. I try to keep everything. As sanitary as possible. I had like a really nice. Tea dip bottle. But it basically just fell apart. And I'm kind of tired of buying junk. All the time. So. This is what I use. Um. I will buy. This is the iodine that I use. I'll just buy it in a big bottle. I think it was like $35. And then I'll just refill it. In that. That jar. I don't know. Next thing I'll add to my cart. Is my vacuum pump. Like I said. I put it right. Up top here. And you'll see why. You'll see why in a minute. I have this. This method to my madness. Also on my cart. I have a curry comb. And a dry brush. And I'll use those two. To clean her off. And then the last thing I have to add. Is my bucket of warm soapy water. For my teat wash. I just do warm water. Um. Some castile soap. And some vinegar. Um. I've used like the scented kind. And they've honestly been fine. Typically I try to use the unscented. This is Dr. Jacobs. Um. Dr. Bronner's. There's another. Brand that I've used before. And that works just fine too. Just fine whatever's. Local. Then for vinegar. I just use the cheap. Distilled white vinegar. I think it's five percent. Just food grade. Um. And I just throw some in too. You don't need a lot. There you go. And I just fill it up to the top. With warm soapy water. Um. For wash rags. For wash rags. I actually just have these microfiber doublers. They're diaper doublers. From when I cloth diapered. And I just never threw them away. And they're just really nice. So they pull a lot of the stuff off. Um. Other things I'll just use is paper towels. Like if I don't have enough. I'll just use paper towels. Um. Some of my other friends have used like the mechanics. Cloths. Or you can even buy like the box of like mechanics cloths. They're disposable. Those work really nice too. Um. All right. Let's go out. Change my boots. And I'll take you to the milking shed. I almost forgot. I need an extra bucket. Um. Since I'm milking two cows today. I always milk Annabelle first. Annabelle is my A2A2 cow. So if I have anybody who has food allergies. They're the one that they're going to get the A2A2 milk. Um. So I just milk her first. And I put it in this bucket. Which honestly I need. I need to wash out our second one. And I just need to throw it through the dishwasher. Um. So I can just take the lid off and pop it over. But. Because her milk. She's actually giving us. Probably close to almost three gallons. Three gallons. Two and a half. She's giving me almost two and a half gallons. But when I put the lid on. It just like foams out and over. So I just. It becomes kind of wasted. But it is what it is. So. This is here. Last thing is paper top. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh.