How Do Farmers Afford Tractors?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HI8Hc1BbnFc
People & Blogs
 This John Deere 9620R in today's market is worth over $600,000. And it has over 600 horsepower and is our main four-wheel drive tractor on the farm. And right next to it here, we have our 2012 8285R front wheel assist tractor. And today's market is worth over 150,000 George Washingtons. And again, another $150,000 tractor next to it, our John Deere 6150R front wheel assist. Loader on this one, use it all the time around the farm. But because not all of the tractors on every farm, and not even my own personal farm, our nice John Deere green. Here at the end, for all you red guys, I pulled out our 1953 gas Farmall Super M, which again, with the loader, we use it all the time. In fact, it was one of the first tractors that my grandpa ever owned. But these aren't all of our tractors. This is just what I needed to pull out of the shed to wash a seed tender. So now I'll jump to the rest. Buried in one of our sheds here, we have an absolute beast and one of my favorite pieces of equipment to run. Our John Deere S770 Combine. Again, another green piece of equipment. In today's market, this thing would bring at least $700,000. Lastly, here we have our John Deere 8R340, which is worth well over $400,000. And this thing is stacked with a ton of nice comforts inside the cab, in addition to auto track, auto track turn automation. It has machine sync. Anything you could want right now in a tractor, this thing has. And that's just in tractors. That doesn't include any of the costs that we use on the other equipment, like seed tender, rotary hoe, ripper, sprayer, packer, other seed tender, snow pusher, chisel plow, corn head, grain cart, field cultivator, forklift, lawn mower, bean head, augers, and the grain trailers. But in today's video, I'm just going to be focused on how my farm and we as farmers purchase these very expensive tractors and what our options are for doing so. But before we jump into it, allow me to introduce myself. My name is Matthias. I'm a 24-year-old fifth generation farmer, and it is stiflingly hot in this tractor cab right now. So let's jump into talking about how farmers pay for these tractors. When it comes to buying a tractor, you got to ask yourself the first question you ask yourself when you buy a vehicle. Do you buy new or do you buy used? After that decision becomes made on a tractor, then comes the hard question of how are you going to pay for it? The first and easiest option is just to pay flat out with cold, hard cash. But the reality is the more acres someone farms, the more investment that they have in raising a crop, which means they don't probably have as much available cash to invest in farm equipment. So although paying with cold, hard cash is the easiest, that's often not the most common way to pay for tractors. Which now leads into the most common way that people pay for tractors, which is by using banks and loans to help spread out the payments across a set period of time. This allows us farmers to purchase large $600,000 machines like the one behind me and pay them off in terms. This allows us as farmers to say break up that $600,000 tractor over a 12 year period and make $50,000 payments plus interest for 12 years to eventually pay off the tractor. And at the end of the 12 years, we own the tractor. And this is where every farmer is different. Some believe in having newer equipment with the hopes of less breakdowns, more efficient, having it under warranty, in addition to some of the technology upgrades that should hopefully save you some time in the field. Some farmers like to run older equipment like this, maybe because, and they actually are, a lot easier to fix than something like this. We don't have as many electrical components going on inside of here. Maybe it's because of the size of their operation. I know for me personally, if my parents didn't farm, there's absolutely no way that I would have a $100,000 tractor sitting beside me. I'd be whipping around in one of these $5,000 or even $10,000 rigs. Also could be size of operation. I'm not here to tell you guys what is right, what is wrong, what people are doing is right or wrong. I'm just trying to describe what decisions are made for farmers when they're going out and purchasing tractors for their farm. So purchasing farm equipment with either straight cash or with a loan, those aren't your only two options. You also, as a farmer, have the option to lease. With leasing, we still have annual payments, but instead of paying part of our loan back to the bank, we're making our lease payments to the dealership since the dealerships are still the owners of the actual machines. Leasing farm equipment is by far the most complicated of the three. Of course, paying cash is the easiest. Second is taking out a loan at the bank. And the reason leasing is just so complicated is there's a lot of variables that got to be figured out. So just how many hours you're going to put on that machine, how soon you're looking to upgrade. And obviously, the dealership's letting you use their machine, so they got to figure out what's the value of that tractor, or in this case, a combine that's behind me. What's going to be the value of that after you run it for X number of years to determine what they need to set your lease payments at? So those are the three options of how farmers can afford tractors to either pay with cash, to finance, or to lease. No matter what route a farmer takes of trying to get a different or new tractor, it's just going to be expensive. So let me explain to you guys what we use each tractor for, and why we don't really have many extra tractors over because of the high costs. Our 9620R here has 620 horsepower, which is plenty for us to use on our field cultivator, our ripper, and our chisel plow. But the reason we went with the largest tractor at the time of 620 horsepower is because if we ever do upgrade to a larger size ripper or to a larger size chisel plow, this tractor will still be able to pull it. Our 8285R here is over 12 years old, and this got used on the planter every year except for the last two seasons. Now this one strictly runs if we use the rotary hull, we'll use the three-point hitch. In addition to any time in the fall that we want to use wagons, we pull out this tractor. Moving down the line, our 6150R, this is our farm utility tractor. We use, again, for pulling some wagons in the fall, use it for mowing all of our road ditches. In addition to, once in a while, the PTO will get run on an auger, and use the loader all the time, whether we're picking rocks, scooping snow, moving gravel, any of those jobs, this tractor gets put to work. Like I mentioned before, here's our Super M with the bucket on it. Use that one, just odd jobs in the summer, as well as moving around sweep augers in a lot of our smaller bins. Then the first tractor my dad ever bought is our nice Farmall 560. The sweet thing about this is it's got an adjustable two-point hitch, so we use that a lot on the seed tender and any time we want to move around an auger or something. Then inside the shed here, we have our Farmall Super MTA. This tractor doesn't have power steering, so to be honest, that's the reason it's not out of the shed right now. Only use this tractor on our water trailer here that we use when we need, which hasn't happened this summer at all, when we have to water our new grove that we're trying to get built up. So this one hardly ever gets used, but we just keep it around for odd jobs in the farm. Next, we have our John Deere S770 Combine, so S770, so we have a Class 7 machine. I still wish Dad would have bought a 790, so we'd have a Class 7 machine. Could drive a little bit faster, but obviously use our Combine in the fall. Now I'll show you guys our sprayer, but before I do, I got to show you. It's only a 30-foot pull-type sprayer that we don't actually use on all of our acres. Right now we're paying the co-op to spray all of our herbicides underground, and that's just because when my grandpa died, and I was still in high school, it was just my mom and my dad running the farm. So they sold off the sprayer, hired that done, but now that I'm back, I really want a sprayer. So my goal in the next five years is to try to buy a self-propelled sprayer and convince Dad to kind of be a water boy again like he was in high school. And finally, our John Deere 340 tractor. Without a doubt, this is my personal favorite tractor, just because if you look inside the window here, you can see all the monitors to run the planter, and this tractor can also be controlled from the Combine, which I think is so cool. But I'm curious, which tractor that I just showed you guys, would you guys most want to run? So let me know down in the comments which tractor. If it is the 340, I'd love to see that. Let me know down below in the comments. Thanks so much, everybody, for watching. We'll see you in the next one.