Farming Matters: Forcing Belgian Endive and Treviso Radicchio in The Upper Midwest with Peter Skold
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hONwnF8guYs
Education
 Welcome to Farming Matters, which is a program of the North Central SARE program that essentially we help elevate the stories and share projects from our Farmer Rancher grantees. I am one of the hosts, Erin Schneider. I farm and I work for SARE, and I am excited to be with you all, and as well as Marie Flanagan, our communications specialist. Hello. And we have a special guest with us today, Peter Skold with Waxwing Farm, and he is here to share a story of his Farmer Rancher project, which is forcing Belgian endive and Treviso radicchio in the upper Midwest. Well, yeah, I can just give a quick introduction of myself. So I'm Peter Skold from I own Waxwing Farm together with my wife, Anna Racer. This coming season will be our 13th growing season, growing mixed vegetables, both for CSA and we sell probably half of our businesses selling to restaurants as well. We sell a little bit to the Prior Lake School District and outside of the Twin Cities. But that's kind of the big breakdown. And yeah, we got through our restaurant work, we got interested in growing radicchio and kind of the logical extension of that has brought us to this project. So it's just kind of, it was a desire to expand our options and diversify our winter offerings to our restaurants. And we thought it might fit the bill, but we needed a little help to get over the hump of the initial investment and trial period. So that's why we applied for the SARE grant. And once we got it, we put the project into practice and had a few hiccups because of the COVID pandemic. But we actually, it was kind of nice. We delayed the project or extended the project by a year because of that. And we were able to put a lot of stuff that we had learned into practice. And I think the project was actually better for it. Okay. So yeah, this is just a little presentation I put together just to kind of hit the high points of what we learned. So as you can see, the whole thing was about diversifying our season extension, you know, season extension in the upper Midwest is really critical for vegetable farms. And so we just wanted to explore an option to give us something, something a little bit more higher value than some of the root crops, especially for us selling to restaurants, you know, root crops at smaller restaurant volumes are not super profitable. So having something that is a higher demand, higher value product was something that we've been pursuing for our winter restaurant sales. And we thought that these forcing chicories would fit that bill pretty well. So what is a forcing chicory? It's chicories are a crop that grows a lot like lettuce. So it's got a leafy top above ground and a single taproot down below. It's been used for thousands and thousands of years. It's originally from the Mediterranean area. And it includes, you know, forage crops, and also crops for human consumption, humans and animals alike eat both the leaves and the roots. The roots historically have been used as a coffee substitute. So it's, it's a crop that is well known in certain parts of the world. And then radicchio and endive are the things that are the crops in the family that most people are familiar with. And so forcing chicories are a certain variety that you plant them in this in the ground, and you grow them like a regular chicory throughout the growing season, but then you dig them up, and you bring them inside and you force them to grow inside a dark room or chamber, which forces them to grow without chlorophyll. And so you get a totally different product than what grows in the field. So not only is it is it a unique kind of value added product for that reason, but it also, it tastes great too. It tastes a lot different than what you grow in the field. So yeah, this just kind of gets at why we wanted to grow these things. Again, like I mentioned, it's about extending our season, our growing season and finding a way to increase the value of some of our winter sales to restaurants in particular. It worked really well with our farm infrastructure because we're able to use a walk-in cooler as our forcing chamber that is not used in the winter. And then it also just kind of gives us a little bit more work to do in the winter, which in theory could take away some of the workload from the summer. And it's all about diversifying those winter sales. So growing this stuff is, it's a lot like growing lettuce. It doesn't really, if you're set up to grow lettuce, it doesn't require any additional equipment. You can either direct seed it in the field or transplant it. The most, the biggest difference there is the impact on root shape. So this crop, even though a lot of people think of chicories as a leafy crop, when you're growing them for forcing, you really got to think about it as a root crop. And so I'll get to it later in the presentation about why root shape can, in certain situations, make a difference. But once you seed them and get them in the field, it's just, like I said, it's just like growing lettuce. So you got to keep them weeded, keep them well watered. It's a long crop, so they have to be seeded right around mid-summer or early July in order to get them in the ground and have them grow enough to produce a sizable root that can be forced. So for harvest, once you've, once you've grown them all up, we used an undercutter bar to lift the bed and then pull the roots out just like we would if we were growing carrots. You trim the greens and you have to make sure that you leave the growing tip intact. You can see on the picture on the left, a lot of those roots have about one to two inches of green still left on top. That's critical for getting, especially for endive, for getting the right shape of the final product. On the right, you can see we threw them into feed sacks that we stored in our walk-in cooler to help keep them at the right humidity. And they store just like any other root crop, best at about, you know, 32, 35 with really high relative humidity. Here's a picture of the forcing chamber. So like I said, the forcing chamber is a, we utilize a walk-in cooler that we use in the summer for, you know, storing cold sensitive things like tomatoes and eggplant and zucchini and cucumbers. But in the winter that infrastructure was idle. So this was, this project was a really good way to utilize that idle space that was otherwise just sitting there. We had these galvanized steel tanks custom made for this project. And you can see kind of just, there's red hoses connecting each of the tanks so that we can circulate water through the entire system. I think that's helpful to keep the water aerated and keep, keep things healthy, but I don't think it's critical. I think you could get by with a much simpler system of just some Tupperwares with roots in them, and you know, a couple inches of water that maybe you changed every couple, you know, maybe once a week or something like that. So it certainly doesn't have to be this sophisticated. I think that we just wanted to really have a system that fit the best, like larger scale commercial systems that we could identify. And so a lot of the larger commercial systems had, had the same kind of water bath circulating water. But I don't think it's critical. So this is the actual process for forcing them for Tardigo radicchio. You dig them up from the field and they pull them out of storage. And on the left, you can see that these plants were transplanted. So you can see that the roots are a lot more kind of splayed out and gnarly. We trim off most of the greens. So on the left, you see the root with a lot of the greens attached still. And then on the right is what it looks like before we put it into the bulb crate for forcing. And then on the right hand side, you can see a bulb crate that's ready to go into the forcing chamber. So you peel off most of the greens because the green leaves eventually decay and die and become kind of a slimy mess. And so the less of that that you bring into the, you know, into the forcing chamber, the less cleanup you have to do on the backside. And then once you put them into the forcing chamber, it takes about three weeks for them to grow. You can see these ones in this picture, we trimmed all the greens off. So there's no decaying matter. And that actually worked pretty well too. So but once they're in there, you just have to make sure that the water level is sufficient so that the roots have something to drink and that you don't accidentally leave the light on. That's the biggest thing is any light will cause the plants to start photosynthesizing, which degrades them. For harvest, you take the bulb crates out, trim off the root. And you can see in the picture, you leave kind of a little little stub of the root. That's at least the traditional Italian way to do it. And you clean off all the bad leaves and then soak it in cold water to kind of let it rehydrate just a little bit. It does tend to get a little dried out in the forcing chamber. And then once you rinse it clean, you can shake it dry and package it for sale and just keep it dark so it doesn't start photosynthesizing. So endive is a little bit different. You can just trim them in the field. And you want to make sure like I said before you leave the right amount of greens intact on the left picture on the left you can see the root on the bottom was trimmed too close and you can see that there's five or six small little sprouts that are coming off of the sides. So those aren't going to be marketable because they're going to stay really really small. Whereas the root on the top was trimmed properly and you can still see the growth tip of the greens intact. So that's going to form a nice tight head growing from the middle of that root. So that's that's the critical thing that we learned. And that was one of those things that we didn't learn that lesson the first year that we did it. And so extending the project by a second year allowed us to kind of learn from that mistake and have a lot more success the second year. Endive is grown more on a commercial scale. So it's more of a familiar crop than the forcing radicchio. And so it's been bred to develop that really nice straight tap root. So if you direct seed the Belgian endive it'll grow a nice straight tap root that then can be packed really tightly into the bulb crates. You can see on the picture on the right that we fit you know more than double the number of endive roots into one bulb crate. So it's a much more efficient use of space. So then harvesting endive grows a little bit slower. It takes more closer to six weeks. You can see here this picture we've got on the top there's some chicones that are just about ready to be harvested. And underneath we have some roots that were started a couple weeks after that. So they're just starting to grow. So it's but it's basically you can just cut them off of the the root either with a knife or just by snapping them off. Trim off any leaves that are you know ill shaped or have any kind of tinge of green to them. And then you can pack them right from the forcing crate for sale. And again keep them dark so they don't start photosynthesizing. We did notice that the the endive was more likely to start photosynthesizing than the radicchio if you weren't careful. Marketing you know the restaurants were our primary customers for this product. They're both definitely specialty products. The Tardevo is not commercially available anywhere in the U.S. that we were available. So that helped it command a higher price but also because it's less familiar you know the the market options are are more limited. For sure specialty restaurants that either have an open mind or are have previously worked with it are the easiest targets. Belgian endive on the other hand is historically more of a large scale production. It's more of an industrial crop. So it's it's available from regular wholesalers, vegetable wholesalers. It shows up on a lot of winter restaurant market or restaurant menus. So because of that reason the market price is a lot lower. So you need to sell in a higher volume in order to make the make it work cost wise. I think the opportunity is definitely there for that but it's I think you would have to do it on a pretty significant volume. Other options are winter's farmers markets you know in the same way that for restaurants it's a really unique different crop to differentiate ourselves from the competition in the winter. You know if there's a winter farmers market you know just having these things on your stall is gonna just everyone's gonna come and take at least take a look. So then you can tell the story and you know you have to do a lot of customer education I think but the opportunity certainly is there to get people to at least try this unique product. And then you know if there's specialty grocery stores I don't think that necessarily either of these products are going to show up in regular everyday grocery stores but there's certainly a possibility for customers regular you know individual customers who either already know about these products or are interested in getting their hands on something unique and different. So there's other radicchio varieties that are either meant to be forcing varieties like this isontina in the middle is grows really really small and it's got a really vibrant cool color but is you know the market for that is probably pretty limited. We've been growing the chicory rosa on the left that is not specifically a forcing variety but in the upper midwest it it works that way. So we've we've had some success growing that crop as a forcing radicchio and then like I mentioned you know the the Belgian endive I think for our scale we found that the the forcing radicchio's are more cost effective for us just because of the higher price that they command. But again if you wanted to really scale up and do an acre or two of Belgian endive and you know talk to a wholesaler and try to kind of corner the the market I think that there's possibility there and I think that you know that it could be cost effective. So I think there's definitely opportunities that have been illuminated by this this project. Yeah and so I mean couldn't have done it without North Central SARE so just thank you for everything that the organization has done to support and fund this project. It was it was a lot of fun and we learned a lot and we certainly developed a practice that we're going to keep using so overall it's been a huge success. What does like so for someone experiencing radicchio or endive for the first time how would you describe that taste or like? Yeah it's um it's definitely bitter so you know I think um that's the the first thing that um turns people off is that it's it's got a bitterness to it um you know because we work with the restaurants we've been they've been slowly nudging us to growing a lot of radicchio a lot of restaurants are are really excited about that so you know there's kind of a spectrum of like the regular main season um radicchio like with um kind of frise and um oh gosh escarole are which are endive crops um that are on the milder side and then there's kind of the there's the kioja which are like the round softball red radicchio's that you see in the grocery store or in the salad mixes those are kind of like less bitter in the middle and then you can go all the way down and there's some really wacky ones that are like um puntarelle is a is a it's like basically you're you're harvesting the flower stock so it's real bitter real tough but then you soak it in the cold water and it mellows it out um so so bitterness is kind of the key there is the main feature but there's it's you know it's kind of hard to describe the flavor unless you you have it and then the um these forcing varieties because they're just using they're not using photosynthesis for their they're just using cellular respiration so there's a whole different metabolic pathway that's happening within the plant um and so it's just they're they're different um chemical compounds that are being formed within the leaves so it's um the sweetness is like it's less bitter more sweet but it's not like sugary sweet it's kind of it's a it's a yeah it's it's hard to describe well did the crop find you or you found the crop i guess what i mean by that is like did you imagine yourself when you embarked on farming like yeah endives it'll be all about endives or like no no it was this is not at all on my radar at all i mean it's um i've always enjoyed radicchio but but even you know prior to getting into growing it myself you know it was not a not like it was a staple on my dinner table as a scandinavian heritage person from minnesota you know it's not a not a part of my culinary background but um so it was definitely working with the restaurants that has has kind of pushed us to broaden um our our scope of the crops that we grow um you know every once in a while we sneak radicchio into our csa but it it doesn't usually go over super well uh it's not a it's not a universally loved thing like uh potatoes or tomatoes or potatoes or anything like that you trim the leaves and then you have these leftover roots um what do you do with those yeah so um right now they're just going to compost um but i think that you know again being that they are um historically have been a forage crop um there's some value for i was just reading before this uh meeting that historically they were um used as a substitute for oats for horses because there's a similar kind of nutrient breakdown um so for sure you know if you had livestock on the farm through the winter uh when these spent roots could you know just go into the pig pasture or into the you know parlor cow parlor or horse barn whatever um i think that's actually how these first got discovered they would dig them up and then stick them in the corner of a barn and then in the spring when things started warming up they'd start to sprout or if like water was dripping on them they'd start to sprout and grow um but in the darkness of the back corner of the barn and so then you know people as they're feeding the horses or whatever like snap one off and take a bite and it's like oh this is unique and different roasted chicory is a coffee substitute so i think you could talk to coffee shops and see if that was something that they wanted to try getting locally um it's showed up in um stouts and porters and from breweries um so i think you could talk to brewers about so i do think that there's an opportunity for turning that into an additional revenue stream as well and if nothing else feeding it to livestock so that you you know recapture that value can you use the root more than once there um there's some speculation that yes you could um i i i read some in our initial research i read some um sources that said yes you can i think maybe if you were just the the tricky part is like how you were would harvest that chicago because then if you cut it low enough to keep it as a nice tight um chicone that doesn't just like all the all the um leaves fall off uh you're gonna cut it low enough that you're gonna damage that that central growth tip um so i think you know maybe snapping it off you could um but it's not something that we explored it's interesting it's beautiful it's like lots of sequencing and just like i thank you for taking through that taking us through that whole process and for other farmers as well just like i can just feel your joy in this discovery yeah i mean right exactly and it's you know again i i think that you know for small-scale agriculture um you know especially working with restaurants a lot of the farmers that we know that are you know growing mixed vegetables in the winter they switch to like large volumes of a couple root crops um you know selling to school districts or uh wholesalers or grocery stores that kind of thing which you know is certainly viable and um but you know we as the as the farm that we are we're we're sized a little different and we found that every time we try to dip our toe into that really larger scale like moving pallets of things at a time uh and always you know we're just not geared for that so we we we were really hoping that this would be something that would allow us to kind of keep that smaller scale but just you know increase the value of those smaller smaller deliveries to restaurants in the winter and and um and it really did pay off