Myers Jackson   America s Auctioneer
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hTvprfiPnww
People & Blogs
 Welcome to another Western Ag Life Voices podcast, where we celebrate the people that make up the rich fabric of the Western lifestyle. Please do us a favor and thank the sponsors, because without them, we couldn't bring you these free podcasts. Well, good morning, ladies and gentlemen. This is Paul Ramirez with the Western Ag Life podcast, and we're in for a special treat today. I have America's auctioneer here on the podcast this morning, and so we're going to talk in a little bit about auctions, but we're going to talk a lot about Myers Jackson and about how he got in the industry and about his life. He's got a tremendous story. He's written a book, and certainly, you know, he goes by the tagline America's auctioneer, and certainly he is. Myers, how in the world are you doing over there in Texas this morning? Well, it's a little chilly over here, but we're going to make it through the day. We're going to have a beautiful day. Appreciate you having me on your podcast this morning, Paul. I look forward to this segment. It's really exciting. Yeah, and so, Myers, like we were talking this morning, my initial, you know, that I wanted to bring you on the podcast was to talk about real estate auctions, but going through your bio and stuff, I'm just like, oh, we're going to go way, way over time, and so let's find out about Myers, and then listeners, I promise you we're going to have a follow-up episode. Myers has tremendous knowledge about the auction method of marketing, especially real estate, and we'll come back in a later episode, and I'll have a follow-up episode, I promise you, because, you know, all of my listeners know my affinity and my belief in the auction process, and Myers epitomizes that himself, so Myers, just so, you know, the audience here get to know you a little bit, tell us about, you know, where'd you grew up, and, you know, how was your childhood, and, you know, brothers and sisters, and so, where'd you grow up at? Well, I grew up in a town called Mayo, Florida, north central Florida, I don't know, about 45 minutes below the Georgia line, very rural, one of the least populated counties in the entire state of Florida, when I say it's country, it was country, and half swampland, half pasture land up around the Suwannee River, but a great place to grow up. We had plenty of room to do a lot of activities, hunt, fish, that kind of thing, worked on the farm all my life, you know, I got a job one time at an auction company up in South Georgia, and Tommy Rowe, he was interviewing me, and he says, what kind of job did you have as a young, you know, growing up? I said, well, I cropped tobacco, a few minutes later, he says, you're hired, and I'm like, what? He says, you know, anybody who knows how to crop tobacco will work, so, you know, that's what we grew up doing, was cropping tobacco, throwing watermelons, of course, there was poultry farms, cattle farms, so, you know, a big agricultural background. And so, there you bring up a name that I hadn't heard in a long time, Tommy Rowe, I knew Tommy Rowe, is, what, how long did you work for Tommy, and certainly he must have had, you know, an impact on you? I want to tell you what, the entire company had a tremendous impact, increased my knowledge, my abilities, my understanding of the auction business, 1000%, without a doubt, I'd say more than that, but you know what, it was just an extreme experience, and right now, today, you know, those guys, they really, they give me accolades all the time about, you know, my progress, and it was a great, great, great company, great company. Yeah, Tommy was an auction man, through and through, wasn't he? He was, I mean, they believe in that auction method of marketing, that is for sure. Amen. So, you were, boy, you were, it seems like you didn't get, you had plenty of things to do growing up, and so, what about high school, did you play sports? Yeah, we, I got into, of course, there was, there wasn't but about 18 of us, you know, in the whole community, so we all had to play everything, so, you know, one of the unique, back in 81, I was, I was in ninth grade, but we got to go to the state championship that year, and we got to move up to varsity, and so that was one of the highlights of, of us playing ball together. They won the state championship, the Fed Hornets did, but yeah, we played baseball, football, threw sticks at each other, you know, threw each other in the water with all the alligators. I mean, there's a tons of story growing up, it's like people scared of alligators, don't be scared of, they're scared of you, so, but, you know, that hunting, fishing, and, and, and school had, I mean, everybody, everybody was just built in to do it, so, yeah, I mean, football, baseball, basketball, we done it all, except soccer, we didn't play soccer much, but anyhow, we certainly had our hands full. Sounds like you kind of had a Huckleberry, kind of, a Huckleberry Finn kind of a childhood, huh? I'll tell you what, it was, it was, it, I'm going to relate it somewhat to that for sure. Amen. And then, so, after high school, what'd you do? Oh, I went into the United States Marine Corps, one of the things that, to get out of the back of patch, and get out of that watermelon field, I actually joined the National Guard in 84, and you could go to boot camp, regular Army boot camp for the summer, and then, then you went to your drills the rest of the year, so I'd done that, and I remember the day that I graduated from the boot camp, I said, man, I thought the Army might have been a little bit tougher than this, so I decided to join the Marine Corps, so I transferred United States Marine Corps, and I went to that second boot camp, and when I got to Marine Corps boot camp, I realized that there was not a little bit of a difference, but a dadgong big difference in what went on. The boot camp was longer, but I'm going to tell you what, those drill instructors, they were, they were on point, I'll just say that. Where'd you go to boot camp? Parris Island, South Carolina. Okay, good deal. And so then, how long did you spend in the Marines? Yeah, I'd just done, I'd just done four years active duty in the Marine Corps, got out 1990, come back home, you know, interestingly, after I got out of, once again, here comes this tobacco patch again, I was so ready to get out of that tobacco field, guy asked me if I wanted a job roofing one day, and I said, yes, sir. So, I worked with these guys, and they, I mean, they've been partners for 45 years, and they've done roofing and construction, so I learned a lot about it. I come back out of the Marine Corps and went into construction, ended up being a state-certified roofing contractor, and done that for a good number of years until I was actually able to make a transition from, I got a real estate license, and then I learned about auctions, and I made a transition from the roofing, the roofing business slash become a real estate broker, then an auctioneer, and then I was just able to put it all behind me as a construction and done auctioneering full-time since 2004. Well, before we get too far, you know, certainly I want to thank you for the four years you did, and that's one of the regrets I have in life, is that I wish I would have went in, you know, I think every American, I think we'd have a better country if every American did one or two, three, four years in the military, you know what I mean? It doesn't hurt to learn that discipline that the military gives you. Well, and then, too, just giving back, you know, to all the, you know, the benefits that we have in this country, and then I think the rest of the world would look at us a little bit different if every man and woman was a soldier. Yeah, I think that there's a lot that you can learn, and I understand it's not built for everybody, and I mean, I know that we got a volunteer service, but I do believe, I see life-shattering changes from a lot of individuals. In fact, a young lady was in my office the other day, and she says, my son just got out of boot camp, and he's a Marine now, but he's not the same, and she says, and it hurts me a little bit. I said, now, listen, I said, what you got to understand, he's on a whole different playing field here now. He has learned a whole lot, and he's in shock as he gets out of boot camp, so he's going to adjust. He still loves his mama. He still loves his mama, but at the end of the day, it is an experience that, you know, you sit back, and you begin to readjust to life, and you see things different. So, yeah, the Marines are certainly a, we call them the few, the proud, and there's a reason. Yeah, and certainly, you know, all of the, you know, little lead-up to an interaction that you and I've had, I notice you're very taunt. You're on time. You're concise, and, you know, I've found that to be a, you know, something that's, you know, systemically runs through almost every Marine that I've ever met. You know, there, I guess there's something in your Corps, huh? Well, it all happens with that formation. If you're late for that formation, you lose your, I'm sorry, I got a frog now. If you don't take a drink, you're fine. You lose your money. You lose, you lose your privileges. You lose a lot of liberty. That's what we call in the Marine Corps. You're late, 30 seconds, and let me tell you what, it changes your whole perspective. I still get edgy right now when I'm late for something, or if somebody's late coming to my formation, I'll tell you what, I get put aside because that's what I've expected. That goes back a lot of years, but it never leaves you. Yeah. I grew up with a father that was, you know, he always thought that you should respect other people's time, and if you're late, you're disrespecting them. You know what I mean, but I appreciate, I could tell, you know, by all of the, you know, dialogue that we've had prior to this lead up that, you know, you could tell you're a Marine just being concise and so forth. And so, and one thing you definitely know how to do is roofing. You know how to work. That must have, that'll put things in perspective, huh? Up on those roofs. Yes. Man. Especially, you know, I live here in Arizona. It's hot in Florida. It's raining. You got to look at the weather every five minutes. I don't look at the weather today because I looked at the weather every five minutes during this business, and I was always in a state of cringe, if you understand what I'm saying. It's like, man, is it going to rain? We got this roof tore off. But it taught me a lot of business structure relating to people, and I think that's when I made my transition into being an auctioneer. It was easier for me because I was always dealing with adverse situations. Something was always changing with that roof job, with my customers, or they're worried that, you know, a storm may come or the storm has come and you've got to deal with that. And I can relate it so much to what I do here today with the psychology of people. So, you know, it was an important part of my life. Learning how to problem solve it and keep it together to a certain degree. And so then, so you come out of the roofing and then, so when you come out of being, you know, in the roofing business, did you go right into the auction business then? Is that where you stepped in there? No, I started doing some investments, you know, like a lot of people do and really didn't have any structure, didn't have any education doing that. I knew very little about real estate. Right. So what I did was, I mean, I said, hey, I'm going to go to real estate school to see what I'm doing right, see what I'm doing wrong. And somewhere along in there, I've become a challenge. I got my license in Florida and it's very hard to get a license in Florida. There's about a 40% pass rate. Now it's become a challenge. Am I going to be able to pass this test and get my real estate license? And so boom, there it was. I got that. And I said, okay, I went to real estate school. It seemed, it seemed pretty straightforward. And then I did like probably 99% of the real estate agents. And I got, and of course you got to be an agent. You can't be the broker right off the bat. So I got, I mean, a great company, you know, Larry Elliott. I remember this guy. He was really, really good to me. But I'm going to tell you, I can take you to the last house that I showed as a regular real estate agent in 1999. And I said, they has got to be something better than trudging someone around all day. And then them tell you, no, we just decided to do something else today. So that's what happened. There was a transition. I still was roofing, trying to get my sea legs up under, you know, my auction business. And then, you know, about, it took me about four and a half years to realize, I got my auction license in 2000, or I went to school in 2000, graduated Missouri auction school. Then, then started to get my auction license in multiple states. And it took me about four and a half years to really get, be grounded to where I could feel confident and go out and sell a roofing job. So I was a roofer, real estate agent, become a broker, and then become an auctioneer. And so all this time, you're still in the state of Florida? Yeah, I was in the state of Florida, pretty much. I did, I did have a place up on Lake Seminole that I was, you know, that's how a lot of people when I got into the auction business, I was living, actually living on Lake Seminole, which is right in the edge of Georgia. But everybody thinks that I was from Georgia because that's where I was when I got really ingrained into the auction business. But, you know, I've always had a tie to Florida all my life. And so how did your tie come about? How did you get affiliated with RAL then, with Tommy? You know, oddly enough, and this wasn't, I remembered that there was an auction company that sold a farm behind my granddaddy's farm. It's like 10 years, I've never been to an auction. But I do remember they come in and they wheeled in one and I didn't even go to that auction. I could just see the signs and I can remember what was going on. And I could remember a little bit of chatter about the auction being set up. And they sold that about 10 years before I even called them. So I said, and then I began to hear a little bit of chatter about auction companies that was close around to my area. And then, you know, there was a couple other things that happened. But finally, I picked up the phone and I called Tommy one day and I said, hey, I would like to interview with you. And he accepted that. And he was about an hour away from where I was really at. But anyhow, that wasn't, you know, driving is not a problem. So, but that's, that's when I sat down and done that interview in Moultrie, Georgia. And then, um, so when you came on there, what, what was your capacity when you, when you started with them? It was just, uh, they called everybody auction coordinators. Uh, of course I was licensed. I had my licenses. I had a, I had a, I had a broker's license in Georgia. I had a, uh, I had an auctioneer's license, but so I become a, uh, an auction coordinator. I just, I was learning, you know, the ropes going to the auctions, figuring out what do we need to do? You know, how does this, how does this operate? So, um, yeah, we, we would, we would just solicit business and, and that's where it really started for me really learning hard the, the, the business about auctions and, and how to put them together from A to Z, uh, started really to formulate when I was there. Hmm. And so, um, yeah, you know, you said something about, you know, so at some point in time when you were, I guess you were doing traditional listings, right? With a sign in the yard and wanting someone to come by and buy the property. Is that how that was your beginning? And then in that part, you must've realized that, Hey, uh, this, this, there's gotta be a better way. Is that, is that what you're basically saying? Well, I'll put it to you just like this, Paul. I can tell you the last house I showed as a regular real estate agent, 1999. And I was in Tallahassee, Florida. Uh, there's a subdivision called Foxcroft and it's right behind the Morgan Mormon church, right off of three 19 North going North out of Tallahassee. And I showed this gentleman, I don't know, eight or nine, 10 houses. And I remember it was late in the evening. It was after six, it was dark. And I said, okay, which one of these houses do you want to put your offer in on whatever? And I remember him saying, well, we're just going to think about this. We're just looking. And I decided to do something different. And what I did at that point was I said, you know, I started looking at how to sell land and how to maneuver. And, and, and cause I was licensed in Florida and Georgia. And I got interested in, in the, the land across the state line. They got plantations and hunting property and all that. And so that's, that's an easier show than me showing houses all day long. So that's, was really the Kickstarter. And I had, at that time, I knew pretty much zero about auctions, but a few months later it all become together. And, and I was, I was introduced to a, to, to an auction. Somebody was doing an auction and, you know, and how I really got into the auction business. Cause remember I was still roofing. And there was this guy's name's Larry Allen. I'll give a shout out to Larry. And maybe he still follows me today. He was a contract auctioneer, but he lived on Lake Seminole. And, but he had also had some experience roofing and I needed some help one day. And he says, Hey, I'll go help you. And every morning he would get into the truck and he'd hit, he'd hit that champ. 35 and 40, 45, 50. And I said, what are you doing? He says, well, I'm an auctioneer. And, you know, uh, he was working at the Tallahassee auto auction from time to time. And well, you know, you catch the bug and I started to mimic, I started to mimic what he was doing. I was talking about, you know, I was trying to do the same thing. And then, uh, another big transformation was new year's day year 2000. I go to the hunting camp in Alabama and, you know, it's cold. It's whatever. The deer is not doing real good. So me and, me and my old family friend called, his name was Harry Parmenter. We was standing out by the fire, just around the fire. And out of the blue, he just starts talking and he was disgruntled with how the auction industry was working over in Jacksonville, Florida. He says, one day I'm going to find me an auctioneer and we're going to turn this town upside down. And I said, 35 and 40, 45, 50. And he looked at me, he says, how do you know how to do that? And I'm like, and I've kind of told him the story. He says, let's go to auction school. Let's just pick one and go. So, uh, at that point we decided to go. That was, that was January 1st year 2000, the turn of the millennium. And I said, we, we, we decided to go to Missouri auction school. Six months later, we got registered and there we went. And so what was his thought? What, what was he going to merchandise right out of the gate? What were you guys going to merchandise? Well, he was, he was around the antiques and personal property, uh, stuff. And, and I remember one of the first auctions ever done, they got me over there. Of course I was there. I was there. I was their test. I was their test man, you know, whatever. Um, but they had been around the business for a long time, but I remember I'd done a, um, I'd done, you can call it a state sale. This yard just had a, it was a yard full of stuff and they throw me out there in the middle of it and they said, Hey, there's a new sheriff in town. And we went to sell stuff. So that was, uh, that was a part of my start. So that's how you kind of got in there. And so, um, so we're coming out of there, you're working for Tommy. And then at some point in time, you, you kind of go off on your own. What, how did that, how'd that, how'd you get? So, uh, you know, I've always been an entrepreneur. I mean, auctioneers are really born like that. I had a great listen. I had, I will never be able to say enough about the experience that I learned there. But what I, what I felt like I wanted to do is I wanted to know if I could run an auction company from A to Z. I wanted to know how to do that. And so at that time, uh, it was around 2007 that, uh, I, uh, I said, you know what? I'm just going to, I'm just going to go out on my own. I decided at that point, uh, I bought a United country franchise and this was the reason why the number one reason is I wanted to be able to say that I had the ability to sell real estate at auction from coast to coast. And I will never, I mean, we worked auctions in North Carolina with Walter House in South Carolina with Chris Pratt. I mean, we, we've done a lot of regional stuff, but I had it in my mind. I said, I want to be able to, if I, and, and, and, and I watched the big companies. I mean, you know who all the big companies were that was flying all over the United States doing these auctions. And I'm like, I want to do that. And so that was the reason that I went with United countries because it gave me that platform. Sure. And then, and, uh, as I progressed, I was in there about six months and we done, we done okay as an auction. We done okay as an auction company. And then all of a sudden in 2009, you know, I got to go up and on the stage. I was the number two real estate company across America. They had about 750 offices back then. And what I hold true now, they didn't have a separate award. That's just how they, that's how they score things. But I was the number one auction company in the United States of America in that organization. And, and all, all the, all the, uh, all the stats, everything that, that was attributable to that real estate business with United country came from what I'd done as an auctioneer. Did not come from private treaty real estate. A lot of people don't know what private real estate, private treaty real estate means, but a lot of auctioneers refer to it as that. But, uh, I will, I will say right here that I'm talking about, I'm 99.9% of whatever we've done come from selling real estate, real property at auction. And so then, um, how long were, are you still affiliated with United country or how long were you with them? No, we, uh, our contract run out. I've done two tours with them. Great company. Uh, and then I, there was another thing that happened in my life that, uh, and I want to tell you what, and, and I know that you and I before this, and you can feel free to go back and restart this little scenario because it's, to me, it's almost surreal about what I've been able to do from where I started in my life to what happened. But I got a call from Hollywood one day. Now I was, I was, I mean, I was running and going and, and I mean, I was just knocking it out. And then Hollywood calls me one day and wants me to be on a TV show. And I'm like, heck yeah, I'll do that. I mean, old, old country boy like me from Mayo, Florida, they're calling me. How did I get there? And, and I, and as before we come online, I talked about the adversities that I had went through. It was like, you know, how, how do people get put on TV? Okay. What do you have to do? You have to have a, you have to have a self-made resume. It's got to be perfect. Your resume has got to be sound, sync, secure, but that's not the way it works. And they called me one day. So I transitioned and I've done about five, we've done about 165 TV shows and we started filming all the time. But anyhow, that's what happened. But I was still doing auctions and, um, but on that TV, I was selling, I was selling, uh, I was selling houses at, you know, using the auction method of marketing, being an auctioneer. Wow. And so you guys had a, a TV crew running with you and recording, you know, on the front lawns and stuff like that. Uh, it was set up a little bit different. Um, they were moving houses out here in Texas and they had to move. What would happen is there would be an old house in a new neighborhood. So before they tore down the house, they would sell the house at auction and then they would pick up the house, move it over to what they call a renovation lot. And on that renovation lot, they would redo the house, redo it all. And then I would come in at the end of the show and I would resell the home to someone who's going to take it off and, and relocate it on their farm or lake house or something like that. They come up with all kinds of great ideas, but yeah. Hmm. And so, yeah. And so is that then at the time that you took on, uh, the America auctioneers title? It all come, it all come about, it all come about in there about the third season. And, uh, you know, the transformation there was, it, it, it kind of, um, you know, it just happened to flow with the producers and everything and, and how, how, how things are said. And what I learned on TV is you have to play for position. Now, if anyone here is listens to this podcast and they have, or have a chance to, and this is, this is a whole podcast. This is a whole seminar. It's in itself. How do you get a job? Who that you're working for? What's happening? You know, what do you say and how do you say it? One thing I learned is you have to position yourself to be in front of the audience and you're in control of how you position yourself. What do I do? What do I say? How do I say it? And so what happened one day is I used to have my, my name, and this was part of the agreement. My name and my telephone number was on my big podium. It was a big banner and it's, and it's on every 165 TV shows that we put out. And a producer one day comes in and he says, Hey, he says, telephone numbers got to go. I said, you know what our deal was? He says, Myers. He says, I know. And listen, this guy done me great. He, he, he, he, he followed through with everything he said. He says, but when it comes to money and advertisers, now we got very, very popular. So the advertisers didn't like my number being there. Why? Because they would call me before they called, you know, whoever the, whoever was in that segment. And he says, he says, he says, I don't care what you do. I said, what about my logo? What about all of this? He says, I don't care what you do. I don't care how you do it. He says, but the numbers got to go. He says, you're America's auctioneer, dude. He says, you might as well fly with it. So, you know, I thought about that. I used to say, Hey, good day, everybody. My name is Myers Jackson and I am the auctioneer. That's what I'd done. So one day I walked up in there and, you know, I went under his advice. I don't even think that he realized what happened. I said, Hey, Myers Jackson, America's auctioneer. We're going to sell this house as he is. And I, and they never said anything. It rolled, it flowed. And so it become a thing. Hmm. Yeah. This morning I was, you know, when I was prefacing, you know, to interview you, I played my wife a little clip from you on YouTube and she says, Oh my gosh. She said, that's, that's masterful. She said, I love it. She said, how, you know, how can you deny that? How can you forget that? You know what I mean? I'm America's auctioneer. Yeah, absolutely. And see, that's what I'm saying. When you get put in that position, number one thing that auctioneers wants to do from the time that I ever set foot in an association meeting, every time I've been around auctioneers, they talk about branding, branding, branding. What do you do to brand yourself? What do you do? And basically I figured that out early in the game. If you let them, if you let, and this is just a piece of advice here. If you let the TV industry control you, then they will. But you know what? They give me free reign to do whatever I wanted to do now was on me. And I had to figure that out. Even positioning my pen and I don't have one. I, you know, I'm breaking my own rule, but even I've got a, I've got a pen and it says auctioneer right here on the, on the label. And I'd see that camera move and I'd mess around like I wasn't really doing anything, but I would position that pen where, where they seen that word auctioneer. And it may not mean a whole lot, but I'm going to tell you what, when you're branding, it means all the difference in the world. Because what I wanted to do when I got on TV was promote the auction industry and say, Hey, ladies and gentlemen, there's somebody out here selling real property at auction, selling houses, selling land at auction. And that was one of my main goals. And I think I got my point across pretty good. Yeah, for sure. I was on a little stint. I won't say what, what organization we're involved with, but we were on a reality show too. And at some point in time, they just came and they wanted me to do some things that I just could not do. You know what I mean? They wanted to make a spectacle basically of the industry. And I just had to stand my ground. And unfortunately I was working for a company and then I was part of the deal, you know, that the company had and they really started leaning on me. You know, they're like, Hey Paul, you could mess up this whole deal with us. And I'm like, listen, I'm not going to disgrace the industry. You know what I mean? That's right. I'm just not going to do that. So, um, it's fine. I can step away, but here's what I'm going to do. I'm just not going to do anything to make a spectacle. You know what I mean? They wanted us to have competition between a male and female auctioneer and just kind of start basically kind of like a, I don't know, auctioneer Kardashian or something. I just, so we basically, I think maybe I messed up the whole deal, but that's okay. I'm okay with that. You know what I mean? Uh, I didn't want, want to bring any stain to the good industry that we're involved in. So we probably could have a whole nother segment on, on that for sure. Um, exactly right. So, uh, let's go. So now you, you're doing that. And so what point in time do you end up in Texas? Uh, this was about the same time I was traveling, um, from Jacksonville to Texas, the film, and they didn't even know. They never asked me when in my initial interview, they just asked me if I was a Texas auctioneer and I've got a license in Texas a number of years before that. So when I got the telephone call, I was like, yeah. I'm a Texas auctioneer. It's like, what do you want? And, uh, so they told me, and then a couple of years later, uh, that when we went to filming from once every three to four weeks to, you know, sometimes two times a day, I said, I got to do something different. So I just decided to stay here in Texas. Every time I would fly in to DFW, a lot of times I drove, but when I flew into the Dallas Fort Worth airport, I would look down and see 5 million houses. And I said, you know what? I can operate in this town. I just got to figure out how to do it. How am I going to make my grub stake here? And I would go and I would think about this all the time. I wasn't a real estate broker in Texas at that time. So then I began to get my license out here, which I did become a broker, yada, yada, yada. But that's, uh, and I, and I said, you know what? I like it. Uh, I've, I've become accustomed to what's going on right here. I live right in the middle of the middle of Dallas Fort Worth and it's great. And it's just, there's, there is so much opportunity in this Metroplex. It is, it is B it is, it is bewildering how much opportunity is here. Yeah. And so, um, kind of, you know, not, not an exact number, but, you know, kind of what, you know, how, what's the, you know, are, are people, um, friendly to the auction method hood there in Texas? You think it's, it's something that, you know, people, you know, like out where I'm from every time that I start to deal with anything that in regards to the auction, when I talk to, you know, a client or whatever, um, Oh no, you're, you know, one of the first things they, they just automatically assume that there's some distress involved in the deal. There's, I'm going to say that happens, but more than anything, when I talk about selling real estate at auction, people don't even know what an auction means. They're like, wait a minute, what are you doing? Is that, is the property for sale? And we have a very diverse community, great community, people from all over the world. And some people are familiar, but I'm going to say a great deal of people. And this is, this is surprises me now. And this is, I think you and I got together here in the last few weeks, cause I was making, I was, I was, I was making a couple of my opinions known, not in a bad way, but it's more educational. Most real estate agents that I deal with have never heard about what I'm doing. They do not know that you can sell real estate at auction. And the other side of that is the real estate agents are scared because they're uneducated. They just don't understand what the power that we possess as auctioneers to help them negotiate. And so I do a lot of education. I do a lot of training. That has been an obstacle that I have had to overcome. And then, yes, some people think that it's, you know, hey, foreclosed, distressed or whatever. And then we, we, we overcome that. But I will tell you this, Paul, there's a good number of people that says, I want to do that. And this is a whole, you know, I'm training. I have a, I have a educational course out here now, how to survive a real property auction that is sanctioned. And I'm licensed by the, by Texas real estate commission to teach this for three continuing education hours. And when I do this, I never lose one participant in the class. They don't nod off. They don't go to sleep. They're continuously taking, they are amazed at what an auctioneer has the abilities to do when it comes to selling real property at auction. Yeah, for sure. You know, speed, the efficiencies and the transparencies, you know, are undeniable. And so when they get that, when they see it, but I'm like you, the same thing. And I don't want to get too far off on this because we're going to have a whole nother segment where we'll, we'll, we're going to really dive into this, you know, in another segment. But I just, you know, some of the resistance that you're right, that I received from realtors is, is comes from just not being aware or I don't, maybe the right terms, not ignorant, but they're just not educated, you know, on the process. And I think that's our fault though. Right. You're exactly right. It is our fault. Yeah. Every, since I, every, every, since I've come into the auction industry, I've heard from a lot of great auctioneers that chatter around the conference and show state, state conventions, national conference and show. How do we work with real estate agents? What do we do? I've heard that for 23 years. My first two years in the auction business, I didn't know. I didn't know what to do. I didn't know what to ask. I didn't know who to be around. But I'm going to say the last 23 years, I have heard that. How do we work with these real estate agents? I'm not going to say that I have the master key, but we have here working in this market because there's so many agents that everybody has a different problem. I've been able to move into a position where at least that the agents want to work with me. And at least, at least if they don't want to work with me, they will listen to what I do. And it may be six months later, but they may give me a call and say, hey, I've been thinking about this. So we have figured out some important numbers on the combination lock. I will say that. Sure. And if you think about it, you know, even a realtor should add it to their repertoire there that, you know, it's another option that they have to help their seller out. That's exactly right. But see, here's the stigma or here's the non-educated version of auctions, which I think that there's a whole lot more. The individual auctioneer, number one, needs to be in a position where they promote this. And once here, here again, this is this is started you and our conversation just the other day because I was going down a direction about where I may have been. I may have been the real estate industry in many cases has tried to push me into a corner. The same with a lot of other auctioneers. Since the conversation that you and I had on, let's just say, in the chat the other day, there's been a number of auctioneers that reached out to me and said, hey, what are you doing? How are you doing this? Because we're we're receiving the same rebuttal, the same, you know, shove off the same pushed into the corner when we say, hey, we're an auctioneer. So this market has allowed me to develop some some let's just say some systems. It's allowed me to develop some really, really rational thought on why that we've been pushed back into the corner, which leads to. Why can't we get our message across? If you if you never open up the box and explore what's in the box, you never know what's in it. So that's where I'm going to with with in my training. Listen, I think there's some great organization and I'm not here to beat them up. There's a lot of things that happen in our market that, you know, I'm not here to beat nobody up about it. But I do believe this. There is an extreme amount of necessity by what we're able to do. And if we as auctioneers do not take that proverbial bull by the horns, no one's going to know because we're going to we're going to we're going to be put out the pasture, so to say. So we have to do a better job, educating a better job. And hopefully and I know this for a fact, I've created a niche here to be able to do that. Yeah, well, we're going to come back and visit about that because certainly you and I are on the same page. We could go a long time in, you know, in pulling that back and and looking into that. Let's go ahead. And so, you know, just for the sake of time, an important thing. And one of the things that I first learned about you was from your photography. So I want to talk a little bit about your photography and how you got into that, because, man, you're just I mean, as far as I mean, you might I know you go by the America's auctioneer, but you're also the auctioneer's photographer, too. So how in the world did you get going in that? Well, first of all, I appreciate that's compliment. It means a lot that compliment right there, because in photography. Yes. And just just a little short interjection there. I guess, you know, in photography and this is my perception of it, you can only relay through that medium something that you actually really know. You know what I mean? That you know what it's like, you know, in the position and the sale process. And I think you captivate those so well that I think just a photographer, you know, that, you know, is in another genre would never be able to captivate those essence of the things that you captivate. You know, so being an auctioneer certainly makes it so tangible for you to captivate those essence of, you know, what we actually do. And so it's you. You're tremendous. Your photography is absolutely tremendous and spot on. And I just love to look at your work about auction. So that being said, just how did you start doing that? So it comes back to when I got into the auction business. You probably can remember back where we had two color marketing, you know, it's, you know, one color and grays or whatever. And I went out one day and I said, hey, if I'm going to be in this business, I got to buy me a good camera. I bought me a Sony camera, eight megapixels at the time. Cost me fifteen hundred dollars for eight megapixels. Imagine that. So when I went when I done one of my first projects, that's the camera that I used because I wanted it to look good. I said, man, I just want it to look good. And as I began to turn it in my photos for the marketing, for the listings, the new listings, people were saying, hey, you know what? That's some great photography. How did you do that? And I'm like, I don't know. It's the camera. You got to get rid of that Kodak point and shoot that you bought down at the Walmart or the Kmart back in the day. And I said, basically, it has to do with the quality of the photo. So once again, you know, going back to my childhood, you know, I didn't have that much inspiration from a lot of folks. So when the auctioneers and other people was recognizing, hey, this was better. It just instilled in me, hey, let me be better. Let me do better. I always wanted to do better. So I remember I started going to some conferences and state conventions, just practicing and messing around. And then one day I called a good friend of ours and I said, hey, Paul. And he didn't know me and I didn't know him. I said, there's going to be an automobile auctioneer championship in Boston. And I said, I'd like to bring my camera and just take some photos. And I'd practiced up enough by then to kind of feel like I knew what auctioneers wanted. But I wanted to expand. And I said, by going to this contest, it's going to throw me some challenges. It's going to throw me some hurdles with lighting, position, and what are they doing? How am I going to capture this moment? And I'll never forget this, Paul. I mean, I stood all day at that conference. I made some real, I mean, I've made some of the best friendships in this business through that photography. But this is what I've done. I come back home and I started to process the photos. I learned how to process my photos in Lightroom and make some adjustments, light adjustments and things like that. And I'll say this, probably about 80% of my photos is total junk. But I learned even how to use junk photos and do different with them to broadcast. And I started sharing the photos with the auctioneers. And I kind of done it all at one time. And I kid you not, it was like a ticker tape for about an hour. Every time I'd post that photo, the auctioneer would change their profile, their profile photo. It was like boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. And I said, what in the world? So once again, it gave me that inspiration. And Paul, he invited me back the next year. And I've done that for about 10 years. Just for the sake of the conversation, we're talking about Paul Bear. Paul Bear, that's right. He's a tremendous, yeah. We could probably have an episode about Paul Bear. The whole episode about behind the scenes and photography and working with Paul, a tremendous episode. But, yeah, so, you know, it was, it become a passion. And you're right. People say, well, you do a really, really good job with auctioneers. And I remember in Las Vegas, Nevada, there was a few other photographers there. And I was, and I was taking the photos. And I'm really into this thing. I mean, you, you, you've got to stay on point. And the other photographer, he looked over at me, he says, what do you do to capture the image? And number one, I didn't have a whole lot of time to talk to him. Number two, my first thought was, if you're not an auctioneer, you don't really know. And I'll attribute to taking photos of auctioneers like dove or duck hunting. You never know which way that duck's going to go. You never know if they're going to go down, up, turn their head, do whatever. So you have to lead and you have to, you have to lead to capture. And you've got to anticipate what that auctioneer is going to do. Knowing full well, they're not going to do what you think. And then you got a lighting situation. You know, the light's too bad. We talked about setting up this camera a while ago. The light's too bad because the wind is coming in here. What do you do with this? What do you do with that? The most important thing that I ever learned was take the shot. No matter if it's going to be good, bad, or ugly. Take the shot. You can learn what to do with the shot. But all in all, I can't even count the number of friendships that I have made, Paul, by going and shooting the, uh, shooting the, uh, contest for these other auctioneers. Yeah, for sure. Yeah. I, I, I totally 100% agree that, you know, that you're the quality of your work. And again, that goes back to that thing we talked about. I can imagine, uh, yeah, the profile pictures and probably everybody still probably has your picture of them up there. A lot of them do. And just again, but it goes back to that deal where you couldn't hire somebody because, um, to shoot that because they wouldn't know what we're actually looking for. You know, it's kind of like, uh, you know, I attribute it to rodeo, you know, some of the best rodeo photographers are guys that have been in the rodeo. You know what I mean? Exactly. Right. They know what we want to see and then they know how to captivate the essence of that. And so, and that's something that I don't think for you, uh, there's, yeah, yeah, you're second to none in that. And I'm sure all auctioneers love to see you when you're at a contest. And, and so, so I appreciate that again. Yeah. It means a lot. And we appreciate it, you know, because you basically, I mean, you're bringing a good light and that's what we all know, you know, like we've talked about this before. Uh, a lot of this is promotion, you know what I mean? And, and a perception to the industry, to the industry, but also to, to the world. When you capture the essence of a professional auctioneer, you just make everyone look so good and, and, uh, captivate and then entices people, you know, with those photos. So, so, yeah, that was, that was the first, that, that, those were the first things that I learned about you was I'd be, and this guy takes really, really good photos. And so, and so tell me. Uh, I want one thing I've had auctioneers come up and, and, and say, Hey Myers, can we, can we use your photos? And I'm like, yeah, do whatever you want to with them. It's cool. Now, you know, you'll see a lot, you'll see once again, this comes back to branding. Cause I wanted to, I don't, I really wanted to be known as a, this is what I do. And this is what I can do. So I've got my name on a lot of photos. A lot of people will call me and I say, Hey, you know what? I sent you a version. I sent you a clean version without my logo on there. That's like, yeah, but we don't care. We want your logo on there. Thank you for doing this. And then, uh, you know, the, the other, the other thing is, is that I've had auctioneers tell me, man, that's an awesome photo. I'll pay you for them photos. And I never have taken money. Now there's auctioneers who's donated some money to charity and I've given them a bunch of stuff, but personally I've never charged as a business model. I've never charged anybody a quarter for their photos. Like I say, they've donated to some charities and we've done some trade outs, but you know, I figure you can lose 20, you can lose a friendship over 25 bucks if the photo is not right. But I had, I had these auctioneers that would tell me, man, we have paid you for these photos. I said, I said, uh, no, Craig, I say, you'll pay me for the photos. You won't, don't want me people to see. Cause trust me, I got all angles. I got closed eyes, tongue sticking out, but it has never been my objective. And it will never be my objective to make an auctioneer look bad. And I've got, I've got tens of thousands of these photos that are, I mean, they're, they're, they're, they're just different facial expressions or whatever. And I've got them, you know, I got them, but I don't, it's not intended to use. I want the auctioneer to look good. I want you to, I want to, and this is my goal is when I put that lens, you gotta, you gotta, you gotta focus on their eyes. I want the public to see the passion that the auctioneer is pushing out to the buyers and for their sellers and show how much passion through my photos. That is my goal. Yeah. And I think you accomplished that quite well. Let me ask you. So, um, you know, I know you started a long time ago. I just want to talk a little bit about the equipment. Things have changed so dramatically, you know, with cameras in that, you know, are things a lot easier now than they were? And, and what's, what are your thoughts about, you know, this digital deal? Yeah. You know, it's easy to take, you know, the, the cell phones and iPhones have come, come a long way where you can take some very, really, really quality photos. Uh, the equipment I use is, I mean, I, for the first seven years, I went from an eight megapixel and then I moved up and it was a 15 megapixel photo, uh, with a, with a, I chose to go with some Nikon equipment. And since then I've, I've moved into mirrorless cameras, uh, that take 12 frames a second. And I won't tell everybody that's a big secret, but you know what? You take 12 frames a second, you, you bound to get a good shot of somebody. Uh, but you, there's, there's a lot of, there's a lot of processing that goes into it. I mean, the chips, the, the, the storage chips and how you transfer the data from one to other, it takes a lot of time to do these. Cause if you take a, if you go out on a photo shoot, I don't, I'll be at the, uh, Lone Star open here next week. And I, I will dare to say I'll take 10, 10, 12,000. I don't take as many shots as I've used to because I've got better at positioning myself. So I don't have to do as many, but I'll still take a 10, 10, 12,000 shots just so every contestant has got photos and every contestant is going to have good photos, but the progression of the equipment keeps on getting better and better. It's easy to take a shot with an iPhone, but if you want to blow that up on the wall somewhere or make a high quality ad double page ad, the quality is not going to be a good. And so when I, when I use this knock on, I mean, you know, I think it'd take up to a 48 megapixel. Now I'll take, I can take that photo and put it on the side of a, of a skyscraper. That's, that's some of the big differences. But, um, along with that, it's not the cameras that I'm using is not automated. In other words, I just can't put it on an auto feature and automatically does it. I'm continually setting dials and I had to learn all these things, no formal training. I just had to learn them by trial and error, but there's some great equipment out there. If you, if you take the time to learn what you're doing. And then certainly there's gotta be, you know, now really, really good software that you can take that, those photos within, right. And then enhance them and prep them. There's all kinds of things that you can use. I'm not big into that. I'm not, I'm not a person to Photoshop. Uh, I'm not, but, uh, but Adobe has a, a program called Lightroom. And what Lightroom does is allow you to have some photo adjustments. And this is, this is another thing I learned a long time ago is, uh, the person who was teaching me, he, they said, the light is in the photo. You have to find the light. You have to find out what to do with it. And you can either do it by understanding how to, how to do the dials really, really fast. Or you use Lightroom to make some of those adjustments, but Lightroom is not made to, to like Photoshop, you know, put a, put a black hat or a white hat supposed to be, or vice versa doing all that. It's just, it's, it's, it's learning the, uh, the elements of the photo are there. And how do, how do you use it to bring it about? Just kind of touch up then is what you're saying. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, that's what I use it for. I mean, if the light's low, I can change the exposure because my exposure may not have been correct out in the field. I can change the exposure on it. I can lighten it. I can darken it. Uh, I can do some things like, uh, the, the automobile auctioneers association sent out a photo one time and they sent it to every dealer in America. And it was my photo in South Carolina. And it was a ringman, the ringman, you could see the ringman and the ringman had his back turn toward me, but you could see the American flag coming down, but there was a big door. Yeah. I remember that. Probably work. I mean, it's like, and there's this big door, but my photo was dark. So what I did was, uh, I, I, I darkened the shadow, the silhouette where you just see the silhouette of the ringman. You can see the American flag. And they chose that photo cause this is, it's kind of like, okay, this is what the auction industry is about. This is a component of the auction industry, but it's not in full color. And I just thought I was, I was very pleased that they use that photo cause in, and first of all, when I made that photo, I was like, Hey, what do I do with it? Cause this is just not a very, uh, colorful, you know, uh, and it doesn't have to be like that. You can express yourself through the photos through other elements, just beside being full color. And I like black and white photos. I do a lot of them. I love them. Yeah, for sure. I remember that picture. I remember seeing that picture. It's, it's icon. Yeah, certainly in one of the photos that in our industry Myers, well, we're about ready to come to an end. I know you're super busy and I appreciate you've taken almost an hour of your time here to be with me here this morning. Hopefully, you know, auctioneers and then, you know, our listeners here, uh, appreciators of the Western lifestyle, um, you know, uh, certainly utilize and understand the auction method hood. Um, we're going to come back at a, at a time when you have some time and I'd like to, we're going to, like I say, really divulge and get into the auction process and, uh, lost him again. Oh, are you back? Okay. I'm back. And so want to have you come back, uh, you know, at a later time, we're going to really peel back and get into the auction process. Um, but I do appreciate you, uh, coming on here this morning and, um, talking, you know, uh, to us and letting us know a little bit about you. And so, um, I want to, I'll let you go and, you know, enjoy your day. And I'm sure you've got something productive to do today, huh? Yeah, we're going to go out and we're going to, we're going to schedule several real property auctions this week. I just want to say, Paul, you know, when I got the call from you, I was like, man, he's going to, I, I, it, it meant a lot that you reached out to me. Number one, it told me that there's other individuals who are thinking the same thing that I am about how the industry, uh, how the real estate industry is, is progressing and how we as auctioneers really envelop ourself into that. And, and, and, you know, a gentleman is your stature. I mean, listen, make no bones about it. Your name's all over this industry, highly admired. So I was, I was like, you know what, I'm not going to miss this opportunity. And then to follow that, I had, I had several other, you know, uh, very well endowed, esteemed auctioneers say, Hey, I want to know what you're doing. So I know that there's a need for this. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to talk about it, Paul. Absolutely. Yeah. We're going to get, we're going to come back and we're going to come back and we're going to spend probably an hour. And when we get done, we'll have had, uh, you know, this will be something that real editor or even a seller, uh, or a buyer, you know, we'll be able to listen to and, and, you know, catch captivate, uh, the essence of the process of selling, you know, your real estate at auction. And so I'm looking forward to that. So unfortunately, you know, you had such a great story. That was my initial intent. But like I was telling my wife this morning, I said, gosh, I got to get this guy's whole story first. So not that you needed any credentials or anything, but I just, you've got a fantastic story. I'm sure we could talk another hour. Um, but I do, uh, I need to let you go. And so ladies and gentlemen, uh, this one thing, uh, we've got America's auctioneer Myers Jackson on today. Uh, ladies and gentlemen, if it's Western, it's probably us. Thank you for listening to the Western ag life podcast. Tune in again for another great episode. Thank you.