All Jacked Up!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hu8LeItpfDc
Entertainment
 Well, let's see what the damage is here. Project transfer case removal. If you're wondering if we're having fun yet, the answer is... Remember that one time the combine fell on you? Come on, big money. Got it! Bye-bye. And here it comes. You saw my last video. I said, I don't think we're gonna miss it. And we didn't. Lawrence is not back yet. He must have decided to go right up to the last minute. Working out on the sites. Doing grading. So, we'll check back in on that. My little girl. Yeah. Okay, y'all. Puppies. Puppies and all. Y'all. Well, we're back in the kitchen. And it is summertime. And the storm has passed through. And the sun is out. And yay for that. It is summer, y'all. It is summer in all the ways. And with summer comes busy days, extra expenses, and lately a lot of brain fog for me when it comes to preparing supper. Like, I just feel like I've run out of ideas. But, tonight, Every Plate is saving the day. And I want to give them a special thanks for sponsoring this video. And I cannot wait to tell you more about them. Every Plate is the most affordable meal kit on the market with their everyday price at $5.99 per meal. But you get to try Every Plate using my code MERDITH199 and get your meals for $1.99 per meal. This is applied as a discount on your first box. Limited time only. And by subscribing long term, you're going to not only save money, you're going to get consistent variety. And less mental load. Because you don't have to do all the heavy lifting when it comes to thinking about what you're going to make for your family. So, we're going to be ready in 30 minutes or less. And every week, we have 30 rotating meals to choose from. This week, our family is getting these three awesome meals. We've got chicken. We've got beef. We've got sausage. And we've got these awesome little planning cards that tell you exactly what to use, how much. We've got pictures on how to do it. This is like fail proof. I let the kids pick out which one they want to start with this week. And this is the winner winner chicken dinner. Sweet and salty soy garlic chicken. We've got all our fresh pre-measured ingredients ready to go and get on the stovetop. And just like that, we have a delicious home-cooked meal that came together in no time. And saved me so much time, so much brain power, and so much money. Now, you get to try every plate using my code MERDITH199 for $1.99 per meal. Apply it as a discount on your first box, limited time offer. All right. Happy eating, y'all. Well, let's see what the damage is here. Lawrence said we got about a half inch. This is not too bad, though. I expected worse. I, well, I had, um, I started out without my mucks. Had to go back and get them. Oh, my gosh, Rocket, you're getting so nasty. With hubby. Oh, well. It's already hot. Hot, hot, hot. Um, we got it in one more chance of showers tonight. It shows, and then we're high and dry. It shows for about a week. So, it's not going to take long for it to dry out, either. It's going to be in the 90s. My dogs. Project transfer case removal. Jack it up, just one more of it. Oh, there you go. One more. All right, ease it down on him. Keep it, sister. Oh, my God. Oh, no. That did not. That front jack did not hold. Okay. Thank you, Jesus, for not letting anybody get hurt. All right, hold right there and kick that note. Pick up on the handle. All right, look over here to get my two more square blocks. Let's see what we got here. There's one here that's about that same size. All right. That's what we want. I don't know where it goes. Look at that. Huh? Jack it up. Do you want to stand already leaning? Is it the stands that are bad? I am, sugar. I see. Okay. If you're wondering if we're having fun yet, the answer is no. Negative. No. Flow breeze blow. All right. Does that look like it's leaning down here? Leaning that way? Yeah. No, it's not. The top of it ain't leaning that way. No. I don't think it is. Easy pressure off the jack. Um, also OSHA approved. What? What? That's just right. I'm talking to the people. I'm telling them that this is all OSHA approved. Just like our tree trimming service. He's not going to find humor in anything I say today. Even more than normal. Four, three, four. It's a little hot and bothered. Bro. It's probably, uh, spam, honey. I've been getting 20 spam calls a day. This is not, this is going to be hard to video. It's not very PG today. I think that would be the most best thing to do. Um, if I have to drive down there and pick you up, bring you back, leave the truck. It's just hard. He's got to take the, he thinks, got to take the, that thing we just put back on the drive shaft. Trying to work out here in gravel and mud. Don't have a concrete floor. Anywhere. We don't, we don't have a concrete floor. Hush, I'm tired. He's calculating. He's thinking. Best news I've heard today. He said he loaded on a trailer. And no, nothing's ever simple. He said he's going to load it up and take it to Brock. I think that's the safest, smartest decision to make. Remember that one time the combine fell on you? No, I don't remember. You don't remember? I do. Well, I wasn't even there. I don't remember. I knew that was going to happen if he'd done that. But, but. Well, anyway. This still doesn't. It still doesn't fall on me. Well, something under there might fall on you. You try to take something down and you can't get it. And I can't be under there with you. And it's just a problem. Yeah. The driver shaft was heavy enough. Oh, yeah. Okay. The driver shaft was heavy enough. And like annoying. Yes, it was. Oh, Lawrence. Come on. I once took the transmission and the transfer case out of my $78. You once took it out. How old were you? I was 20-something. How much did you weigh? And I made a mistake. I didn't have a truck after I found this. Oh. I was going to say. But you were also nothing but muscle. I pulled about 700 pounds off of my stomach. And then I couldn't roll out Monday. Yeah. Oh, that's not funny. It'll be a while to snake out Monday. Okay. Yep. All right. Good. Good choices. This will be a good choice. Yeah. I like good choices. I'm going to clean all the junk out now. You got a lift in the shop. Yep. You want to take the transfer case out? I'll do. All right. I crawl up under this thing. I don't know. It's like there, isn't it? Yeah. You got to take the cross member down. And then... Okay. I'll tell you that. Come on. Whoa. We'll have to come back this way. Go this way a little bit. Straight back. That way a little bit. Whoa. Whoa. You got to jack it up. Woo. Straight back. I think it'll work. It's going to be close. I'm talking to you. Come straight back. Come on. Come on. You got it. Whoa. Feels like the heat just got turned up. Several degrees. oh boy um there's a lot of jacking just a lot of jacking just don't fall i've already got the title for this video all jacked up let's see if the lights work everybody let's hope that the lights work come on come on big money got it yeah yeah yeah thank you for something working i'm watching babe yeah yeah got it yeah wait what what do you say we're going we're going with it it's all good it's a little tight there right now it's a little tight with peaceful pleasure up there we got to get peaceful pleasure in the water and make sure she's working i want to take her to the river but not not if she's going to cause problems and she is a boat and they are notorious for that oh girl you got to make your first river debut in a long long time it's happening this summer you got it you with me okay if you don't talk to enamin- en- en- en- en- en- en- enamin- enamin- objects i can't relate i'm thirsty better him than me pulling that thing on there i just could never i would be petrified of even just that little ramp that is not up my alley i'll be putting a track and sitting on that yeah see if he's about on the track now it'll be my fault you need to come this way a little bit oh this makes me so nervous literally i know he said you worry too much i do i know i do okay woo come on come on okay good job and we got the dodge pulling the chevy i mean i'm a dodge girl now i'm a dodge girl through three now i don't think i ever want anything but a ram but anyway i can't believe i'm saying that i grew up a die hard chevy fan just because that's what my daddy always had okay wow that was something trying to get directions downloaded and a charger that works and we wrote it down in case the phone messes up because he has a hard time with phones y'all he's going to brock's place in creedmoor and he's never been and then several turns and anyway okay okay here's hoping okay here's hoping son that's how it ends if you want a wheel didn't he watch out awesome stop smile mhm bud oh all righty then check that off I guess I guess just hope for the best there Austin is having a little day date a day date with our friend Wendy they have been grooming horses they just came in they're going to town to eat pizza there's you know I was just thinking there's really no greater gift than friends good friends who are willing to invest in your kids and she loves my kids like they're her own and always has and has been here for their whole life so I love that they're getting to spend some time and I'm gonna go do some things I actually had a phone call this morning that I completely missed because we were up under the truck so maybe I can make that up oh but first come here little girl somebody somebody got uh rolled in a really nice fresh pile of manure this morning and she's got to get a bath and she is not going to like that since we sold Lawrence's truck we put tags on this truck Austin's truck and so we promised her we would do that so we're gonna start driving it some she's very excited about that I don't know what that is I don't know take it out her daddy evidently your daddy bought a vacuum from somebody there's no telling oh my gosh she bought um he bought what he bought an office chair from Tim our new monthly renter and maybe he bought a vacuum cleaner you just never know around here anyway so since there's a really bad storm coming we decided to go get milk because we're out neutral is driving reverse what is reverse it's like space in between well I can crank the trunk I think I can well it didn't even storm bad here it went around us we only got in a little bit of rain going to town got milk got McFlurry milk and McFlurry I got to drive Val for the first time she named it Val her truck Val because she got a Monarch got her on Valentine's and what else was I going to say I don't know um being in a truck woo hello humidity being in a truck like that is fun um I mean you gotta like roll the windows down it was like 89 baby 89 wow those were the days right come on now those were the days who else misses the 80s I do yeah I miss the simplicity of it all I miss before cell phones honestly so much anyway I won't get into all that but yeah it's cool truck it's cool and we were blasting uh so it's got a cassette player you know she fixed that she put a new one in and she's got an old Leonard Skinner tape so I was right back in high school it's great