Daily routine as a farmer #farmer
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hUyWBvmoch0
People & Blogs
 Here's a random day in my life as a farmer. I started by cleaning my room and then replied to some emails from customers and got some chicken thawing for dinner from the freezer before making a super fast breakfast of eggs and toast. I added some green onions and cheese to this to just make it more flavorful and it's super quick and delicious. Morning chores then began and I drove down to our shop to pack the curbside pickup orders for the day which I set out by our farm store for pickup. After that I fed and watered the chicks in our brooder which are just over one week old and stay in here as they need the heat lamps to survive. Naomi just got back from feeding our laying hens with Bailey so we both filled four buckets of pig feed for our 16 pigs and then drove out to our north woods. They all came over to see us when we arrived which is so cute and we filled up their feeder, gave them lots of scratches which they love and checked to make sure their electric wire was on and hot and that they were happy and content before leaving. We then went back to our shop and filled five buckets of feed for our five week old meat chickens. We brought these out to our east pasture to their mobile prairie schooner and filled their feeders and made sure that they had water and were also content. Next on the list was moving our flock of sheep. Naomi and I set up their new area with electric netting and let them in their new area and then moved their pen and water and turned the fence on to keep them in and predators out as the last step. Back at our shop Naomi and I then packed all the orders that will be shipped out today as Thursday is our home delivery day. Back at our shop Naomi and we had leftover tacos and we drove and dropped off all the orders to be shipped out same day and as soon as I got back I filmed some footage to edit for our customers and ended up just sitting with the pigs as they're honestly pretty fun to watch. After that I started dinner and decided to make something we never eat which turned into homemade chips and fried chicken with green salad. Definitely an indulgence but pretty amazing. After dinner I brushed our dog Bailey as she's been shedding a lot and it's been on my list and then the last thing of the day was some formatting I had to do and that's it.