Rockwool Showdown: Which One Grows Better? Legigo VS Tower Garden   #garden #hydroponicgardening
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HVAGxHQ0GL4
People & Blogs
 Welcome to Tower Gardening Made Easy and I'm Sherry. Well today I'm going to be reviewing two different types of rock wall. This is something that's essential to growing in our towers. So sometimes when things go awry you might think that you have a black thumb. That may not be the case. It might just be that you're using the wrong rock wall. So I want to review both of these and show you that the different purposes for each. So let's go ahead and do this now. Okay so the two different types of rock wall that I want to review. One is called Lego and you can find it in Amazon and the other is from Tower Garden and obviously you can order that from towergarden.com or and on Amazon as well. I will link both of these down below in the description and as we move through this process if you have questions please comment down below and I will be sure to get back to you and if there are any other products that you would like me to look into for you please let me know in the comments. All right so let's go ahead and get into this. So the first thing I want to do is just go through the list of what we're going to review. So the cost per cube I want to talk about the seed well of each. What is more appropriate big seed or for small seed? I want to talk about algae. It's one of my favorite subjects. Time in the tower and is it safe to use? We never really think about that. So let's get into the first segment which is the cost per cube. Now before we start now I know people are like oh it's not a lot of money but let me show you how it adds up and I want to break down the math for you because we really don't think about it. We just go we need it and then you order it and it's just kind of you know in the back of our minds but let's just for a second break it all down. So the Lego again as I mentioned is on Amazon so just keep that in mind for a quick second. It's 18 cents per cube. Now they usually send two sheets which equal about 98 plugs and they're a one one and a half by one and a half little square and the same thing with the Rockwall. They're one and a half by one and a half and 96 cubes per like purchase order. Now Tower Garden is about 27 cents per cube plus shipping so just keep that in mind that that is an extra cost you have to factor into each cube. Now and again you're like oh it doesn't seem like a lot of money but let me paint this picture for you. It's time to clean out your tower. That means everything's got to go. That means you've got to clean it put it back together fill up that reservoir and now it's time to put some seedlings back in there. So it's go through our seed packets and we get all really excited and then we start to take our Rockwall whatever which one you're using and you go ahead and you plant out your garden tray that sits in your nursery on your heating mat under your warming lights in its beautiful little greenhouse. Now in order to plant out that one tower it could potentially be about 40 plugs or Rockwall cubes and I'm going to break down the cost for you. So the Lego is about seven dollars and 27 cents or sorry 7.20 for 40 cubes okay and that's without shipping. So to plant out tower garden it comes out to 10.80 plus shipping. So as you can see if you have more than one tower like I do every penny counts. Now I always plant a little more because not everything comes up. So if you're planting more than 40 you know your cost factor goes up. So these are just some things to think about when you're doing this and I know that you know you've got to think about your nutrients and all of the little products that we buy to support our hobby and or to feed our family. Maybe it's more than just a hobby. So I just wanted to bring that to you. This is this is a very important you know component of what we do. Now let's get into the meat of this. Okay so let's talk about the seed well. All right so the seed well is the opening on the on the cube. All right now tower garden I have to say is a really you know kind of a natural little seed port and it's it can actually hold a big seed and a little seed. It's it's quite perfect but the Lego is as you can see in this picture is microscopic. Now can you make that hole bigger? Yes. You can use a garden tool something like this or a dowel stick or even just a pen you know the opposite end of a pen to make it bigger. Now if time is of the factor and especially for me with the nine towers and lots going on sitting there and punching 40 holes is not something what I wanted to. I really like tower gardens seed port or seed well. I think that it really is quite perfect and if I'm planting out a bigger seed it's just you know boom I'm popping those little puppies in there. I'm throwing the vermiculite on top. I'm putting it you know the top onto the greenhouse getting the warming mats putting the lights on and you know then I got to go like there's other things I got to do like nutrients and pH and pruning and just and videos. So you know to keep the channel going so I've got a lot on my plate. So to punch out holes it's kind of like oh so the I have to give tower garden the point for the best seed well it really is the perfect size. Again the Lego is good but it's just a little more time a little bit effort but you do save money so just keep that in the back of your mind that is a little bit cheaper. So it just depends on you know what your what your priority is. Is it money? Is it time? So let's move on to the next category which is seeds. This is going to be really really important. All right let's talk about big seeds first. So big seeds would be like green beans, our squashes, our melons, even pumpkins if you're following me with the pumpkin challenge. These are those you know good size seeds that you know literally you know you're going to be standing there punching holes in the Lego getting that size in there and you got to remember you've got to leave a little room for the vermiculite and you got to have enough space in there for the light. So again tower garden has got a little bit of a leg up if you will on the seed port. Now there is an issue we're going to get into that a little bit in a second in terms of time in the tower. The seed port is perfect for the big seed and honestly the little seeds too. So if you're using like a granular seed we're going to get into that in a second as well. The tower garden is quite nice but the big seed depending on what you're growing it might be worth the time to spend with the Lego and making those holes a little bit bigger and you're asking yourself well why? Well think about it a big seed has a big thick root and I know I can put beans in the tower garden cubes and I can get them to germinate and grow at least two sides and a bottom probably within seven days with the warming mat and the lights the way that I have it set up and I can pop them in a tower probably in a week. Now with the Lego it's just a little bit longer but hang on to that thought because what happens to the rock wall in time is really important. Now let's go talk about small seeds. All right so the smaller seeds they can actually go into both but the tower garden because that rock wall is just a little bit thinner it's a little more malleable those granular seeds like celery strawberries strawberries even lettuce they will spread up real fast and the roots are able to penetrate and get right through there so that you can get it into the tower faster. The Lego is a little longer but I will say that like say a pepper it's a smaller seed takes a little bit longer but once you pop it in the tower you're going to thank me for using this and I'm going to show you examples as we go down the road but for the for the tower garden I do like it for like celery but you're going to need to cap it and I'm going to explain that in just a minute so I'm going to give points to both of these for the smaller seed you're just going to have to adjust the hole on the Lego. Tower garden is you know it's the perfect size you kind of pop those little granulars in there you put a little vermiculite put the top on and you're good to go and now let's move on to one of my favorite subjects. Oh algae. So before we talk about this I'm going to tell you a little story. A while back in a forum I had mentioned something about algae and I was really um shall we say I'm corrected by a moderator and she's like don't worry about the algae. Algae happens everywhere. It happens in the towers it's just natural. Well I'm not going to disagree because you have the perfect conditions you've got light moisture and you know in a growing port so of course yes algae is going to happen but the difference between these two rock wall is huge. Now I don't know what's in the tower garden I don't know what they put into it in terms of how they make it and I do not know what they put into legal and frankly I don't want to know but the issue with the algae is the tower garden even just a little while in your nursery is prone to algae. Aligo and I'm going to show you an example in a minute I can have in my nursery for months I'm talking months with a small seed and I told you I was going to tie this in and it's algae resistant. Now what is algae? It's fungus and it stops the growth of your seedling and this is the whole purpose of tower gardening to grow your food. So if you're going to use the tower garden you're going to need to put a cover whether it's in your nursery or in your tower to make it survive. All right that's just the way that it is. It's just soft. There's something about it that the algae just loves and once it penetrates that whole cube your seedling does not have a shot in the dark. It doesn't. You have to cover it. Now the ligo it's just resistant. I don't know why it just is. I've discovered that. I'm going to show you right now the example. Okay so here on my right is the pumpkin and this is 12 days in the nursery and you can see that it's laden with algae and so when I did put it into the tower I put covers on all of them. The picture on my left here is two months almost I think it's three months that these pepper plants they were extra just stayed in the nursery and I thought I'll find a spot and I never did. I just made sure they were watered. They stayed under the you know the open lights the spider lights and they were they were just fine but as you can see two to three months in the nursery growing there's not a speck of algae and they just they were happy. They just kept growing from the seed but as you can see it took a really long time because these seeds for peppers are small. So the root system has a difficult time penetrating so it's going to take you a lot longer but in the long run is it better because you're not getting algae and that rock wall is going to stay you know intact. Now the pumpkin if you watch that video that I did I had to when I put it into the tower I had to use more rock wall and I think I used a combination of the lego and the tower garden to kind of prop up the stems to give it that nice little shelter and support it and then put a cover to make sure that no more algae grew until the canopy of the leaves cover the rock wall then you're not going to have a problem. So as you can see they both have plus and they both have minuses. It just depends on what you're growing and as much as I love the tower garden products and I do love their rock wall I have to say so far I'm really loving the lego okay just so you guys know that that's it is I use both I'm not gonna lie but for certain things lego is just a little bit better cost effective time in the tower we're going to get into that in just a second it really is a good product so let's talk about now I'm going to segue into this time in the tower all right so we just kind of touched on that just a minute but I want to go over that a little bit more so let's just say that you have let's use tomatoes because tomatoes you can keep in your tower for months so if you caught the video where I just did that huge harvest it just turned over the tomato tower it was about cleaning the tower you know I think it was you know putting it in the dishwasher forget the name of it a lot of that was planted out with the tower garden and by the end of it there really wasn't much left the roots had just kind of filled up that net pot and that's what was was kind of holding it together it the tower garden rock wall disintegrates and it doesn't leave a whole lot extra you have to keep kind of putting it you know filling it in supporting those roots that are in there supporting the stems if you've got a heavy like squash plant or zucchini plant you got to keep propping it up so that it doesn't split lego you really don't have to do that it just stays intact like a nuclear war could happen and I don't think it's going to break down so I really got to give the point to the lego I really do it's it's a really great product tower garden again it's a little more expensive and you're going to have to use more of the product as time goes on because it does disintegrate in the tower over time so let's move on to waste all right so if you guys follow me and follow this channel you know that when I do do my plant outs I have a recycle bin for a reason I never throw it away unless you know unless it's been in the tower for months then it's you know it's not worth anything but I use the extra pieces that fall apart from putting them in the tower so I want to you know just touch on that for a quick second when you soak your rock wall and you are ready to go out and plant I will say that the soak rinse soak with the tower garden when you go ahead and you break it apart there's not a lot of waste it breaks perfectly you put it into your container throw your seeds your vermiculite top lights you're good to go lego unfortunately you soak rinse soak you know whatever you go to break it apart with your hands and there's a lot of waste you end up having to take a pair of scissors and trim the bottom to get it into the individual ports so there's a lot of waste now I don't throw it out it goes into my recycle bin and it just dries out and I use it when I need it so it's it's not a waste but when it comes to time I don't have time to trim 40 cubes I need it to break apart efficiently effectively and put it into the grow the grow ports so from that point you know I got to give it to tower garden there's very little waste occasionally when you break it apart because the seed well is bigger it will just snap in half but again I throw it into the recycle bin but just know that at 27 and 18 cents per cube you can't use it to seed up something you just have to use it for extra pieces down the road so in terms of waste I'm gonna I'm gonna give it to tower garden because there really is very little in Lego there's a lot so let's move on to is it safe to use all right so what do I mean by safe to use now we all know rock wall the word rock wall it's it's made from like a like a like a wool and um I will say the tower garden because it's a little more malleable a little bit softer the fibers um don't really seem to um stick you you know there's not a lot there to you know it's soft on your hands and especially after you rinse you know soak rinse and then put it in there it's it's relatively safe on your hands um on the other hand Lego is not I will tell you that when I do use this and do a big plant out with it I use rubber gloves um whatever's in there it's almost like a fiberglass feel and it will stick your finger and if it gets in there and your hands are just remotely dirty it gets infected I've had that happen to me twice so I don't mind I'll put a little neosporin and it's gone within a day um but I I don't like the fact that if you're planting with your family like your children um please use gloves have them use little little gloves um because you don't want them in their fingers that's that's not good for them so just have caution that you know it is a little thorny you know that's a good way of describing it um so just just be careful so I would be giving tower garden a point on this for safety uh I do do do like that so uh kudos to them and just be careful if you use the other one Lego all right so in closing what works best for you I use both it just depends on what I'm planning how long it's going to be in my tower how big the seed is how small the seed is um and how much I need to do um you know if I've got to plant out two towers it it really just depends on what I'm going to plant I you know I will sacrifice sometimes the the time in terms of not having to punch holes and I'll throw them all into the tower garden if that's what I have and I'll suck it up at the end when I have to put them into the towers by having to put a mixture of both on top to prop up that stem so I suggest don't just use one pick two play around with them um but know that they it's expensive you know if you're going to be using the tower garden uh because you have to remember that there's shipping involved and uh you know Lego there's no shipping so you're saving yourself you know probably about eight to nine dollars uh that gets divided into each cube so again if there's any other products that you want me to review please let me know please comment below I hope you found this helpful um I really was um kind of in the making that I've been talking about it on the podcast I'm like I gotta do this video and so here it is so this is my review um I really do like both but it really just depends on what you're planning and um how much of planning that you're doing so stay tuned and we'll see you in the next video