[Lecture]  Impact of climate change on coffee production: coffee diseases
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hW8Mpg5-g7U
Education
 Welcome to this second lecture in the series of talks of the Colombian Coffee Hub. My name is Alberto Gaitan. I'm a scientist working with coffee diseases at the Colombian National Research Institute, CENICAFE. And today we're going to talk about climate change and how it affects diseases in coffee. So first, I guess everyone has heard a lot about climate change, either in the news or in magazines. We all the time listen to problems related with climate change. But recently we have been receiving news about connections between climate change and coffee. And they had to do with how coffee is going to change under this new environment of climate change. And unfortunately, we are starting to feel those effects in our coffee production, not only in Colombia but in other places around the world. So today we're going to see a specific connection that is related with diseases in coffee. And we're going to talk about what happens then when the weather interacts with coffee and, again, how it connects with diseases. The first thing that we have to understand is that in order to have a disease, we need a series of components happening at the same time. It's like setting up a puzzle. First, you need to have a right environment in which the whole disease is going to develop. The second is you need to have a pathogen. And a pathogen is an organism that is able to cause disease. The third is a plant. In our case, it's a coffee plant that will be susceptible to have this particular disease. And the fourth component is the human, is the human activity. Somehow we help diseases or we can stop diseases. And we also play a role in how diseases develop. So we're going to start checking these pieces of the puzzle. And the first one has to do with the right environment. I mean the weather or the climate. And for this, we have to realize that coffee is cultivated in the tropics. And the tropics have this special environment, which we refer as a very stable environment around the year. And we can see here that in this slide that while in the northern hemisphere or the southern hemisphere, we have wide changes in temperature around the year. We have winter. We have summer. And we have a wide range of maximum and minimum temperatures. In the tropics, it's very different. We have a very stable temperature the whole 12 months of the year. And the only change probably is related with the altitude. But in general, the temperature is very stable the whole year. Not only in the air, what we call the air temperature, but also if we look into the soil, it's happening the same. The soil temperature remains very stable along the year. So this is one of the first characteristics. The second one is we have a recurrent pattern of rain. And it's due to this phenomenon that is called the intertropical convergence zone, which is a place around the equator in which the humidity of the hemispheres get together and originate this high humidity, high probability of rain occurring in those places. And what happens to us is that we have this front of rain moving from the north to the south and then from the south to the north. And that happens very constantly through the year. And we know exactly or barely know very well when are we going to have rainy months or when are we going to have dry months. And Colombia is very particular in this aspect in the sense that we don't have a real dry period during the year. We have periods of more rain and periods of less rain. And that's very particular for us in our country. And then we can start looking into a more detailed variation that probably can be found. I mean, we have been talking about a worldwide phenomenon. But then when you start looking into the plants, you see that, for example, here we see that the temperature on the surface of the leaves change during the day. And this is very particular in the sense that when you have coffee growing under shade, the temperature only reaches a certain amount of degrees during the day that could be around 26, 28 degrees. But when you have coffee growing under full sun exposure, this temperature goes up. And it can go up to 34, 35 degrees. So it's very different to have coffee growing under shade and coffee growing under full sun exposure. And this difference in temperature is very important for the organisms that are living on those leaves. So not only that, when we talk about climate and weather, we have to realize that we have very special conditions in every plot that we are growing coffee. And that's because, at least here in Colombia, we have a mountain system. We have differences in altitudes that can change very quickly from one place to the other. We have many species of trees growing around our coffee plantations. So they are also regulating the temperature and the humidity around the coffee plants. And inside the coffee, by itself, you can have differences in the densities, for example, where coffee was planted. If you have many plants in a small place, the condition of temperature and humidity are going to be different. And if you compare that with a place where you have very few plants in the same area. So this is giving us a variation in the environment that is present in every single plot. So we have to start putting all these things together. And they create what we call the environment for that particular plot. And then we have to see how that affects the diseases. But in general, when you see all these pieces together, in the tropics, we have very good conditions for these parasite organisms to develop. So we are talking about organisms that have a constant temperature during the whole year. They don't have to worry about snow or a very hot summer. We have organisms that have a constant amount of humidity of water during the whole year. So they don't have to worry about dry conditions or very wet conditions because the system is very stable around them. So it's giving them the opportunity to attack plants basically the whole year. So in our case, when we look at diseases, we see a constant threat of pathogens on the coffee plants. So that's the first component that is very particular to our environment where we grow coffee. Then we have to start looking into, well, what kind of parasites or what kind of organisms can cause disease in coffee? And again, the same as humans get sick, plants get sick. And basically many of the organisms in general that produce diseases in humans are able to produce diseases in plants. And in plants, there is a particular kind of organisms that can attack them, that is, other plants. We are not going to talk about them today. But we know that other plants can compete with coffee or can start parasiting coffee. We have also insects, which can eat the berries, can eat the leaves, also attack the trunk of the tree. But today, since we're talking about diseases, we're going to talk about pathogens. And in pathogens, we have to differentiate basically four or five kinds. And we have nematodes, which are like small worms. We have bacteria, like the bacteria we know everywhere. We have viruses. And also we have fungi. And in coffee, from all these organisms, fungi are the most important ones. They are the more threatening organisms for coffee. And we know that there are about 17 different diseases caused by fungi attacking coffee. And very few of, let's say, bacteria or viruses or nematodes. Our main concern is all the time fungi. And fungi, they need water. That's one of the basic conditions that they need to survive. And this is because in their life cycle, they need water to move from one plant to another plant. They need water to germinate, to go from this little seed that we call conidia and start growing a new fungus. And they all the time need water for all these parasitism processes that they have. And also, they need a good temperature range to start living and reproducing and doing all their life needs. So basically, this is the general life cycle of a fungus. It starts to disseminate, to move from one plant and start going into other plants. Then, when it arrives, they infect the plant. They start attacking the tissues where they know what to do. And after that, they colonize those tissues and start to produce new fungi to go and start the cycle again. So this is the general cycle that we try to understand in order to see what can we do about diseases. So when we connect the physiology or the way these fungi live and the weather that we now know that we have in the tropics, we can start correlating some situations in which, for example, if we have higher precipitations, good amount of water, that's the moment when fungi problems are going to start. And when that connection between the amount of water and, in this case, the amount of rain that is falling is worse because the presence of phenomena as, for example, La Nina, which is a Pacific phenomenon that increases the rain that is falling on the coffee plantations, then we start going into a situation where fungal diseases are going to be even more important than in other situations. So when we talk about phenomena of La Nina or these changes in the normal patterns of rain falling, then we start to correlate weather with climate change, which is our main concern right now. And then when we go and check into the fungi, I told you there are about 17 different diseases. There are some that are more important than others. And worldwide, the most important disease caused by a fungi is the coffee rust. And I guess everybody heard a little bit about the coffee rust these days in the news. There are very serious problems with the coffee rust in Central America. So it's no surprise. Coffee rust is one of the oldest diseases known in coffee and probably one of the oldest diseases known in plants. And it's very devastating. It was the cause of removing all the plantations in the 19th century in India. And it provoked the change from coffee into tea, for example, in those areas. And it came to America in 1970. It's a disease that was originated in Africa and very slowly was moving around the world. There are... Well, when we want to talk about the coffee rust, we have to know first that... First, it's caused by a fungi. That's the first thing. The second is the name of the fungus. Of this fungus is Emilia vastatrix. And as you can see here, the fungus in this microscopic picture, it moves around in some sort of capsules that we call conedia. And it goes into the plant and starts eating the plant from inside and creates these yellow spots which are powdery in nature. You can go and check on the leaves and you find that the leaves are producing this yellow powder. And this is because the fungus is using the fruit from the plant to start to feed itself. So it's taking all the nutrients from the plant in order to continue with his life cycle. And this fungus is only able to attack the leaves. We are never going to see coffee rust attacking the beans, for example. However, since the leaves are in charge of filling up the coffee berries, when you attack the leaves, the coffee berries are not going to develop properly. And that's when we start to have problems because although the fungus is not able to attack the berries, it's indirectly producing an arrest in the development of those berries. Unfortunately, coffee rust is not the only disease that is important in coffee. There is another one that is called the coffee berry disease. It's produced by a fungus that is called Coletotricum. And let's say that fortunately it's only present today in Africa. It has not been able to get out of Africa yet. But it's a disease that is very difficult to control because it attacks specifically the berries. So different from the coffee rust, the coffee berry disease attacks the berries, the green berries, and produces a lot of loss of yield. And when you start looking around in coffee plantations, you can find other diseases. One of the most common is what is called the pink disease. It's also a fungus that is able to attack the berries and the leaves. And as all the fungi, it has to do a lot with the presence of water in the environment. So again, every time we hear about high precipitation, periods of high rainfalls, then we have to start associating that with the increase of fungal diseases. Not only the pink disease is present, also the iron spot is another disease that is able to attack coffee. And one that is very common in Central America is called the American leaf spot. There in Central America, they call it gotera or ojo de gallo is the local name. And in Central America, causes a lot of damage on the leaves and also on the berries. So we see that, at least in these few examples, we have several pathogens that are able to attack the berries, or, as in the coffee rust, that attack the leaves and then produce an effect on the berries. So that was the second component. We have the climate on one side. We have the pathogens. Now we know that there are fungi, and we know at least some of the diseases that are caused by fungi. We have to start looking into the third part of the puzzle, and that's susceptible plants. In general, it's possible to find plants that are able to defend themselves from these pathogens. And they have something that is called genetic resistance. So they, somehow, they know how to deal with these pathogens, and they don't let them attack them. However, when you look into the commercially available varieties of coffee, basically all of them are susceptible. They don't have genetic resistance. So they have all the, they provide all the opportunities for the pathogens to attack them. So that's a big problem around the world, and I guess many scientists have been working on that, trying to see how we can improve these susceptible varieties, which are the commercial ones, and introduce some sort of genetic resistance. And mostly all the improved varieties around the world have been somehow fixed in that way, in the way of, they now have resistance mostly against the coffee rust. Now, this work of putting resistance into the plants is not easy. In coffee, everything takes time. So when you want to produce a resistant plant, you have to start crossing plants that are agronomically important, and plants that are resistant to the disease, and start trying to make these kind of marriages between these two plants, and you start checking the sons, the grandsons, the grand-grandsons, and in that process, you select the ones that are really good in the field for their agronomical characteristics, for their adaptation to the environment, for their crop quality, for example, and also the ones that have now resistance to the disease that you're looking for. So it's not an easy process. It takes a lot of time, but it's doable, and in many cases, it has been very successful to get these resistant plants. And finally, the final piece of this puzzle is human activity. And as I told you, we, when we go into the coffee plantations, we can either provide conditions for the diseases to develop, or stop and make some sort of activities in which we kind of slow down the development of diseases. In these cases, for example, and again, one of the things that we see commonly is people like to use high densities in their plantations. When you have lots of plants in the same place, the temperature under the leaves, the humidity in the area is very favorable for pathogens. And one of the things that you have to handle is how many plants you can have in the plot. So usually, we say that more than 10,000 plants in the same plot are very conductive for diseases to show up. Also, when you have many plants in the same place, pathogens can move around very easily because the next plant that they are going to attack is very close. So that also favors the activity of pathogens. when you take care of the coffee plantations, if you don't feed them properly, if you don't give them the right nutrients, you create these weak plants that by themselves also, they are more susceptible, they are less tolerable to pathogens. and again, all this fertilization is a key part of having plants healthy and avoiding problems with diseases. So when you put all these pieces together, the pathogen, the climate, the susceptible plant, and the human activities, and somehow they fit together, that's when diseases show up. and the effects can be very different depending on what kind of attack is the fungus or the disease doing. Since we are talking today about fungus that attack the berries, the main, main problem that we have is problems with the yield. So I told you the plants are not able to fill the coffee berries and then at the end of the harvest, you find out that you are collecting less amount of coffee when you go into the plantations or that you need to pick up more and more berries in order to process them and obtain one kilogram of parchment coffee. So this, what we call the conversion factor that usually is five kilograms of berries to produce one kilogram of parchment coffee can go, for example, up to eight to one. Eight kilograms of berries to obtain only one kilogram of parchment coffee. So the efficiency of the whole cultivation process goes down. And with the seasons, for example, like the coffee rust, we have what we call a silent effect. We, probably, you go into the plots, you collect the berries, and you don't notice that you are collecting a little bit, a little less berries every time. And that's because the rust is attacking the plantation and is reducing the yield. So over four harvesting seasons, you can lost 25% of the yield. And that means that you lost, out of the four harvests, you lost one completely. So this is happening, as I told you, in a silent way, but actually is causing a problem to the producers. And also, when plants are sick, they are not really in the best shape to go into the next season to produce more coffee. So sick plants take a lot of time to recover. Sick plants don't produce new leaves very quickly, and then they are not ready, or they are not in the best condition to start producing coffee in the next season. Okay, so now talking about this human activity, some practices, like for example, and I mentioned again, fertilizing, are going to help the plants, because plants are going to be a little bit better in their health, they are going to produce leaves faster, they are going to recover if they were attacked very soon. Also, we can help ourselves using, for example, fungicides, or other chemicals to protect the plants, but they have to be used in the right way. So, in general, poor nutrition, or the use, for example, of hard soils in those places where coffee is not growing pretty well, their roots are not developing well, or in some cases, plants can have root diseases, which we are not mentioning today, but all these things are providing a nutrition situation in the plant, which is not the best for producing coffee, and is facilitating the attack of the pathogens. So, in general, the first effect of diseases is a loss in yield, and that is affecting directly the producers. But also, we can think about ways in which the quality gets affected, and it has to do with, first, the bean size, because, again, since plants are not able to feed and fill properly the berries, we end up with beans that are smaller than usual. in some cases, some diseases are able to induce what is called early ripening, and it means that the berry looks like a ripe berry, but in reality, inside, is not very well developed, so they are harvested at the wrong time. Also, we have a weak berry that, when it's processed later, after the harvesting, it can be degraded or it can be broken, and, again, it's going to be removed from the lot of the production place. And, finally, when we talk about fungicides and the use of fungicides, we have to think also on the presence of fungicide residues on the beans. So, those are aspects that we think that are going to affect quality, and, unfortunately, they, cortemos y si o con y si o con y si o con y si o con y si o con y si o con y si o con y si o con y si Okay, so now the question is, now that we know how these diseases are happening and what is the effect of the diseases, what can we do in order to protect the coffee plantations? How can we take care of those diseases? And, in our case, we like to focus this in an integrated manner. It's not a single practice or a single activity which is going to take us out of the problem. We have to look at the problem from very different aspects and try to do what we call an integrated disease management. And, it has to do with blocking one or more of these pieces in the puzzle. puzzle. And, in this case, for example, if we have a susceptible plant. So, if we have a susceptible plant, the best thing to do in that case is try to change that plant for a resistant plant. And, then, a resistant variety will block the whole process because we moved one of the pieces out of the puzzle. If we have pathogens, that is another piece of the puzzle, then, we have to try to see if we can use natural enemies against those pathogens. And, this is very important in coffee and it's very efficient in the sense that in many cases, there are natural enemies, other organisms that are controlling pathogens in the plantation. If we have human activities that are facilitating the development of the disease, then, we can change those activities and, for example, in that case, apply a fungicide. That's one of the things that we can do in those cases. And, in case of the weather, well, we cannot control the weather, but we can be more aware of how the weather is behaving. So, we can check on the early alerts of weather, we can monitor the weather to see what is happening, and based on the behavior of weather, we can take some action on that. So, the idea here is to block one or more of those components that are causing disease. when we talk about natural enemies, and I mentioned that when we were trying to block the pathogen, natural enemies are very important in coffee because coffee is a very stable, provides a very stable environment. plant. So, we have a coffee plant that is going to be there for about 20 years, and many organisms, microorganisms, other organisms, insects, are living in that very stable environment. And they are not only living that, they are providing service to the coffee plants, they are helping the coffee plants to protect them against other pathogens. and this is very critical when we go and try to solve a disease problem applying chemicals, applying fungicides, because when we try to kill one fungus that is causing a problem, we are also killing other which are natural enemies that are living in the same place. So we have to try to reduce as much as possible the use of these chemicals so we don't change this balance of natural enemies that are present in coffee plantations. In the human activities, well, the first thing that you can do is try to have junk plants, junk and healthy plants. Those are in the best condition to resist diseases, to recover from diseases, and also we can help them providing a proper fertilization, handling all the weeds in the plantation, so all these things are helping that plant to be stronger to resist diseases and recover very quickly. And also we can use chemicals, of course, that's one part of this integrative management. And chemicals have to be used first, applying the right molecule, it's not using any molecule, there are molecules that are specific for every pathogen, and you have to do the studies on that. You have to apply those chemicals at the right time, it's not applying frequently, it's just trying to find those moments where the chemical is going to be more effective, and also using good technology to apply the pungisides. And that's also a concern that we have, so people don't overuse chemicals trying to solve a disease problem. And finally, with the weather, we have to be what we call in Colombia climate smart. You have to be aware of how the weather is changing. As I told you how, when, for example, the rain season is coming, or if this rain season is going to be really powerful because of effects like La Nina, in that case, you can start replacing varieties, using resistant varieties. You have to pay attention of these early alerts to see what is going to happen ahead of time. And in our case, we're working a lot on modeling, on trying to know how the weather is going to behave in the future. So, basically, this is our compendium of how we look at the situation of climate change and diseases. Now, this is talking more on the farmer side, but if we go on the consumer side, there are also effects, and one of them is, for example, the change in the bean size. You can have in a healthy plant, large beans being produced, and when the plant is sick, when the leaves cannot fill these berries, then the size of the beans are reduced. So, we cannot expect to have these really high-quality beans that many people like. We also may have problems with the early ripening, as I mentioned with one of the diseases, the iron spot. So, when people in the fields are collecting the berries, they collect many of them that are not in the proper stage of ripening, and that will reflect later after processing in the quality of coffee. Also, of course, you can have bean degradation when there are remains of fungi growing inside the beans. beans. And even if the process goes in a way that you look that the beans are looking fine, maybe inside those beans, you still can have effects of fungi growing in there, which also alter the quality. And at the end, what we would like is to have a product that is as clean as possible. And I mean as clean as possible in the sense that the more people use fungicides, the more they use insecticides, the higher the probability of having residues of those products in the coffee beans. So we would like to have a reduced use of these products in order to have a cleaner product for our customers at the end. So those are things that we have to be really aware when we realize that all these factors to produce disease are occurring and we hear reports of diseases around the world. And if you have any questions, I'll be happy to take them. Thank you.