Hay Day - Birthday Balloon Maker (Explained)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HwCVngb5RTg
Gaming
 Hey guys, what's going on? Welcome back to another Hay Day video. In this video, we're going to be talking everything about the Balloon Maker coming into Hay Day tomorrow. 10th of June is going to be Hay Day's 30th birthday special event. Now, I did talk about everything that was coming in the game of the summer update, the June 2025 update, which is already out in the game, and I hope that you guys are enjoying the update. Of course, share your thoughts in the comments. And in that video, I mentioned I will be talking everything about the Balloon Maker, so that's what we're going to be doing right now. Let's get started. So here we go with the Birthday Balloon Maker 2025. You guys can have a look at the design right here. It's a little different from last year. I think this time the color is kind of orange-yellow. Last year, it was more blue, and this time we have more balloons attached. But on the right-hand side, you guys can see this is how your machine is going to look once you get fully mastered. There's a star on the wheel. How far has been converted into the golden color, which is very pretty. So yeah, I do like the design of this machine and those little sunflowers at the bottom. Perfect. How are you going to get this machine? I know a lot of people get confused every time we have these sort of events. Number one, you will have to be level 17 or higher if you want to get this machine. This will be delivered to you by Alfred the Postman. You guys can see on the right-hand side that's who Alfred is. And it's going to be close to your farmhouse. I think tomorrow, on 10th of June, right after the derby ends, this event is going to get started. So make sure that you don't have any package already there, because if you do have a package left to be opened, Alfred will not deliver this machine to you. And make sure that you refresh your game. A lot of times, people don't refresh their games, and they're like, where is the package? You will not spend any coins, and this machine is not going to take any time. As soon as you get the package, just open it, and you can start working on this machine. Let's just say that you've got the machine. So let's talk about the slots. Now, of course, you will have to open the slots of this machine, as you do with the other machines. Now, this is just going to be my guess. I'm not 100% sure this could be wrong, but this was exactly what the slots costed last year. So this machine is going to have two slots open for you, and then the rest of them you'll have to open by spending the diamonds. You start with 24, 36, 48, 60, 72, 85, and then 100. So you spend a total of 425 diamonds to open all the slots, which I do not recommend. I think having four to five slots would work perfectly. Just make sure that you stay active in the game and keep making the balloons. I also do not recommend opening all the slots because it's a waste. Since this machine is temporary, it's going to be gone after this month ends, so your diamonds will be wasted. So think wisely, and don't waste a lot of diamonds. Well, here's a guess at the mastery from last year's perspective. To get the first star, you will have to run this machine for 48 hours, and then you're going to get 10% extra musical notes. Second star, 192 hours, 40% extra musical notes, and to get it fully mastered, you'll have to run this for 140 hours, and you'll get 100% extra musical notes. I think it's going to be impossible to fully master unless you're spending diamonds because now the balloons are not going to take a lot of time. Okay, what's the purpose of this machine? What this machine is going to do? Well, as the name suggests, this is going to make the balloons, and this time we are getting eight balloons for our new and for our old ones. So these are the balloons that we also got last year, the checkered balloon, the music balloon, the record balloon, and the guitar balloon. And here's a look at the new exclusive balloons we've just got this year. We have the flower balloon, the peace balloon, a rainbow balloon, and the sunflower balloon. Now, what time your balloons are going to take to be ready? Well, just 10 minutes. You don't even have to wait a lot of time. Last year, I know the balloons used to take 45 minutes, even an hour, but this time it's just 10 minutes. It's not a problem. You will just have to be active in the game, as I mentioned, and make sure that you keep making those balloons. I'm really happy for this change. I think this just makes this even a little easier and more fun. Right, now I'm going to show you guys all the ingredients that you need to have to make these balloons so you can stock up your machines and stock up those products. Okay, we're starting with the sunflower balloon. This is going to be unlocked at level 17. To make this balloon, you're going to need one egg and bacon, five carrots, and five indigos. Guitar balloon, which also unlocks at level 17, you will need one cornbread, three apples, and three bacon. The next is the peace balloon. Level 20, you will need one blue-gully hat, three rosberries, and five soybeans. Musical balloon, level 25, you'll need one chili popcorn, one bread, and five corn. Next, we have the flower balloon. Level 30, you will need one vanilla ice cream, three blackberries, and five chili pepper. Record balloon, level 35, one fish pie, three cherries, and five potatoes. Record balloon, level 45, one soothing pad, three coffee beans, and three strawberries. And lastly, we have the rainbow balloon, which unlocks at level 60. You'll need one tomato soup, five pineapples, and five garlic. I love the design of this balloon. It mentions I love Haiti, which is so cool. And as you can tell, the different balloons unlock at different levels. So don't worry if you don't have all of them. They're going to be dependent on your game level. Right, now let's just say that you have the balloons. What is the purpose of the balloons? What are you going to do with them? Well, you're going to fill the boat crates. There's going to be boats asking for the balloons, just like they ask for other normal products. But this time, instead of three products, you're going to have two products, and one is going to be the balloon. You will fill the crates, and you will get a temporary currency, which you guys can see over here, called as the musical notes. Now, each balloon is going to give you a different amount of musical notes. I'm not entirely sure, but I think it's going to be like 10 to 20 to 25. We shall talk about this when they actually come in the game. Now, what is the purpose of the musical notes? What are you going to do with them? Well, this event is going to come with a catalog, and from the catalog, you guys will be able to purchase lots of new things. There's going to be decorations, permits, chick vouchers, puzzles, tools, coins, anything you like, and they're going to cost you musical notes. Like you guys can see over here, we have the groovy guitar, groovy side table, the groovy tiles, topiary number, puppet show. So these are some new decorations, and I'm sure there's going to be more decorations, probably some from last year. Like even here, you guys can see we have the groovy bike, the groovy chair, the rainbow umbrellas, musical fences, topiary number three. So you have the opportunity to get all these decorations, but you will need a lot of musical notes. So make sure that you make the balloons and you fill the board crates as much as you can. Alright guys, so I hope this cleared all your confusions about the balloon maker. This event is going to start in the game tomorrow. I hope that you guys will participate in this and you will enjoy this. I will be putting a little tutorial from the Dairy News. I hope that it makes more sense to you guys, but thank you so much for watching. I'll see you guys tomorrow for another exciting video. Until then, happy farming. Bye! After the update, Alfred will deliver a new temporary production building to your farm, the balloon maker. Start producing balloons, then ship them off on boat orders to receive a new temporary currency, which will help you unlock items and plenty of groovy decorations from the catalog. The catalog refreshes weekly, so don't miss your chance to grab your favorites before they're gone.