Adoption and diffusion of digital farming technologies
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i0pvLoxahlY
Science & Technology
 Hello and welcome to the overview of our paper Adoption and Diffusion of Digital Farming, where we try to integrate farm-level evidence with a systemic approach. Digital farming, we really think that that has the potential to sustainably transform agriculture by reducing the widespread use of agrochemicals. Digital farming comes in many flavors. For example, you have mobile apps helping for decision support, you have infield sensors, remote sensing devices and databases, but also robots and drones. However, to be really effective towards that goal to reduce agrochemicals, those technologies must enter a stage of mass adoption. Before that can happen, we really need to gather more knowledge on the determinants of adoption and on the process of the diffusion of that technologies throughout the population of farmers. And explicitly we did so and differentiated that between the farm level of the individual and the system level. Accordingly, we conducted literature reviews on farm and system level, where we investigated all empirical findings and studies on the farm level and came up with broader categories of determinants of adoption, on the one hand. And we looked into systemic studies into modeling analysis, where we looked into all agent-based models of technology diffusion and adoption and agriculture. We also highlighted the adoption categories, but also looked into elucidating the mechanisms of the diffusion process itself. What we found is that there is a missing link between those two strands of the literature. There's a gap. And we tried to highlight that gap in our conceptual framework, which we hope is able holistically to answer policy-relevant questions. Speaking about empirical findings on farm level, for example, what we found out is that they put a high emphasis on operator and farm characteristics. And to pick one and the most cited one determinant of adoption here, it's farm size, which is highly significant and really important relative to the other determinants of adoption. When we then look into the system level approaches, the agent-based models, we found that especially in the realm of interaction, other farmers play a high role here where farmers do interact with their peers, with their neighbors. And as well, there's another very important aspect in those agent-based models. It's an attribute of the technology, which is perceived usefulness. However, the realms of operator and farm characteristics here, those models do not put the same emphasis. We try then to nest in our conceptual framework most important theories in the realm of technology adoption, namely the theory of diffusion of innovations with the theory of plant behavior, and then link that with the identified categories of adoption determinants. And to conclude, we found that farm level studies do miss out on social interaction and that system analysis really underutilizes empirical findings. We hope that our framework might serve as a guideline for future studies and future models of adoption of digital farming, and that we could contribute towards the knowledge on bottlenecks standing in the way of mass adoption of those technologies, and that we arrive in the end at a more sustainable form of crop production. Thank you very much for your attention.