Planting Onion Sets - A Complete Guide
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I1Kpu8IvyUQ
People & Blogs
 It's time for some onion sets. Quite literally the only crop that I can think of where half the work is already done for us. In gardening there's often many ways to accomplish the same task. We can see this even with the planting itself. And in the case of onions, growing them from sets like this is by far the easiest. Bulbing up and harvesting actual onions has been known to give gardeners fits. Especially when they think that they've done everything right. So today let's look at all the do's and don'ts of onion sets. Ensuring that this year is your best onion year ever. In all but the most extreme climates, onions can be grown from either seeds or starters. Just like any other plant. However, a third even easier way is to grow them from what's called sets. That's great. But just what is an onion set? Well, onion sets are simply small, dry, immature onion bulbs grown to that point in the previous season. They are fully formed mini onions frozen in time, just waiting for the chance to start growing again. And this is what makes onion sets such an easy way to grow onions. No germination, no seedling care, no hardening off and never any transplant shock. Simply plant them like you would your garlic cloves and let the set do the rest. It doesn't stop there, however, because ease of planting isn't the only benefit of growing onions from sets. In areas with a long growing season, onion sets are going to produce bulbs earlier and more often than other growing methods, allowing you to extend your harvesting window. Conversely, if you live in an area with a shorter growing window, growing from onion sets is going to allow you to grow larger bulbs than what's normally possible. All due to that head start. Once they get going, onion sets grow fast, normally 40 to 70 days, and you're pulling up the bulbs. This is also going to allow you to double crop in the same year, something that's just not possible when growing onions from seed. And as if that wasn't enough, onion sets also give you a uniform, almost guaranteed crop every time, because you choose which ones to plant, discarding the ones that don't make the grade. As we said, the planting is super easy, but there are a few hard rules to follow. Let's cover them now to make sure that we get the most success out of planting onion sets. With onions, there are three main categories that all varieties fall into. Long day, short day and intermediate. These three day types refer to the number of sunlight hours that the onion plant needs to start bulb formation. Long day onions grown mostly in temperate climates start bulbing up when those long days of summer hit 16 hours or more. Short day types that are grown in warmer areas only need about 11 hours. And the intermediates, of course, are in between. So choosing the right onion variety for your area is going to be necessary to ensure that you actually get a bulb harvest. This is especially true for those long day types where even though you have a head start, you might not get enough sunlight hours to make a difference. Once you've picked the right onion to grow for your area, you need to go ahead and select the right location. All onions need to be planted in full sun in loose, rich, high organic content soil that's free of impediments. Moisture retention should be high, but excellent drainage is non-negotiable. And lastly, avoid heavy clay type soils while keeping that pH between 6 and 7. For timing, it's best to wait until your soils have warmed up to at least 45 degrees Fahrenheit before planting your sets. Right around the end of your last spring frost days is usually the best time to get your onion sets into the ground. Actual planting is super easy and it's much like planting your garlic cloves. However, just like the garlic cloves, there's a distinct top and a bottom to your onion set and they have to be oriented the right way. For those sets that have already sprouted, it's really simple. Just plant them with the green end pointing up, much like you would imagine an onion plant to grow. For those that have yet to sprout, however, the top usually ends in a point, with the bottom being much blunter. Also, if you look closely, those bottoms should have remnants of where the roots were cut off. Really though, once you do a few, you kind of get an eye for it and it's really easy to spot the difference. Onions tend to grow quite shallow. As such, plant your onion sets right at the surface. No more than an inch of soil over the tops. For spacing, 4 to 6 inches, preferably 6 inches is the norm. Any closer than that and the onion bulbs are going to start competing with each other and it's going to affect the eventual bulb size. Also, if you're going to be planting more than one onion row, make sure to space them one to one and a half feet apart. Although they need their space, onions are not loners and in fact, they make great companion plants. For pairing up with your other vegetable crops, onions grow great with beets, brassicas, carrots, dill, leeks, lettuces and even strawberries and tomatoes. They don't get along with everyone, however. Avoid growing your onions with peas, beans and asparagus. Onions have been known to stunt the growth of these crops as well as affect the taste. So try to avoid pairing them together. Bury your sets with that displaced garden soil or use some fresh potting mix. Again though, no more than an inch over the top. A light mulch should then be applied on top of that soil around an inch thick or so. After that, make sure to thoroughly water your newly planted onion sets. Remember, it's the water that's going to stimulate these bulbs to come out of hibernation and start sprouting again. For fertilizing, it's not something we have to worry about just yet. As hard little onion plants don't even have roots yet. So it would be kind of a waste of time. Onions can be in light to medium feeders, especially in poorer soils. So about three to four weeks after planting, apply a liquid balanced organic blend. Shoot for equal numbers of that NPK ratio. Now, this one is optional, but if you have exceptionally poor soil, or perhaps it drains really, really well because it's a bit sandy, you can go ahead and apply a second dose of fertilizer. This time though, try to skew a bit higher in that first number, nitrogen. Again, this is optional. And always remember, with all alliums, you've got to stop feeding about a month before the intended harvest. For the harvest, your onions are going to be ready to pull up when that foliage begins to turn yellow and the plant looks like it's dying. But we'll cover that in a later video. For now, let's recap the main points of planting onion sets to make sure we got it all. until we get it all. I'll see you next time in a decade. I'll just buy that one with my cał pulseС, go ahead and be ready. Just Trail Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Happy growing guys. And I'll see you in the next one. Hey, thanks so much for watching guys. Truly, this channel wouldn't exist without passionate gardeners like you. For even more info packed videos like this, check out this playlist of garden quickies here. And for those of you that are interested, my online course, vegetable gardening basics is live and ready for enrollment. As always happy growing and I'll see you in the next one. See you in the next one. See you in the next one. See you in the next one.