Sheep Farming: Best & Worst Practices Explained!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I2SCJyapwik
People & Blogs
 Hey everyone, welcome back to Alaya's podcast. Today we're going to be talking about the fencing we've done, in-land meows, low-scan results, an Instagram poll I've done on the story and a few bits like that. So, I'm just going to get into it really. The last few weeks have been absolutely beddling. We were doing a bit of fencing at home in the field and the video was up on YouTube. And we had a couple of fences to repair, so basically they're for the lamin to make things handy and those old fences there, so they take down the old fences, take up the stakes, bring just everything that was broken and use cutting up for firewood and stuff like that stuff. Every time I was bringing the stuff home, I was putting the sheds, I was getting me away in the sheds and I just keep cutting up. So, just one of those things that it just, it was never and never and. And so, finally now I'm starting to get on top of things. But it's the fencing itself, the video I was there on YouTube, it's just to make lamin easier and hopefully help Yvonne as well in the future when she's doing so. And we have a few paddocks done this year, we've done a few permanent paddocks last year. For next year we have a few more bits to do, a few more gates to hang and bits and pieces like that. So, it's, we're getting there slowly but surely these things take time. But the whole point of them is to get things ready for lamin and then we've, during the summer we'll be doing normal fence and then, and I'll have to get more stakes because I've used an awful lot of stakes in the last two weeks that I hadn't, hadn't envisaged using them. But, look they're better in the ground and used than not like. So, in the first thing I'm going to get into is the low scan results in the hills. The people I've been talking to, an awful lot of them say that they've had low numbers of twins and they were, us ourselves, we're like, we're 40 less. And I suppose, when people say structure that's less feeding, less work, that's not a bad thing. But next November, December, January, it could be a bad thing because if there's a lack of store lambs, how, who's going to fill the markets? Because I can't see the fact you make giving us more money. So, could lambs next, after Christmas next year just go super money? I don't know. But I suppose it is something that we're relying a lot on, I think, on the cash show to keep the price up at the moment. So, if that fell off, it could have an egg impact. But the fact that there's going to be less lambs next year could be a problem. And then, if you're someone who sells your store lambs normally in the summer and gets rid of them, are you better at keeping them? Or can you have either room to keep them? That's the other way of looking at it. So, it's something for people to think about, you know, if the scanner results are down for the later scans that I'd been talking to have been, it could have a knock-on effect next, next autumn. So, it's just, people are thinking of selling or dying somewhere. They might hold on to them for a bit longer and see, see what happens, like, you know. So, on Instagram, I ran a poll and I just, to see were people happy with their scannas, because having less twins or that could impact on it. And 70% said yes, 15% no, and 15% were undecided. That was 80 people vote on it. And one person got back to me and they said that they scanned 1.6 and put 1.85 to the field. That the scanner got an awful lot of things wrong. So, he was delighted that they are wrong. But, at the same time, instead of left a few extra hassles and why the scanner was so wrong, he's not sure. But he says, look, sure, you just have to get on with it for next year. You know, and it is, you know, it is something that's, can always happen, like, but, you know, I suppose it is a tricky job. And, and that kind of then, falls into then, with the in-lamb yows. Like, this year I've noticed that in-lamb yows are more expensive than last year. A good little bit more expensive. And I was looking at some of the sales and I was thinking to myself, you know, they're quite expensive and all this. And then I kind of stepped back and said, I knew a guy who bought in-lamb yows. And this lad now, he'd buy good yows in September time. And I said, you know, he's paid roughly about 3.15 for in-lamb yows in the middle of February. And at the start of September, he would pay 250 for yows with no lamps. So that's 65 euro in the difference. And I said to myself, you know, when you think about that way, it's not a huge amount of money. Because you could pair it back a little bit by saying, well, what would your cost be to keep them? Well, you have a tenner to get them ready for tipping. Regardless of being the doses, injections, vitamins, all that, and maybe include your scanning. Would you keep them for over the winter for 35 euro ahead of a cost? And that brings up the 45 euro. So now all of a sudden, there's only 20 euro in the difference of the price. And it just got me thinking, like, if you were, say, someone who really didn't, weren't worried about the, what sheep you had, you might be better buying in lami yows than buying hoggets and buying aged yows in September time. Because if you didn't have them sheep, you'd have all the grass that they didn't eat. So when you bring them home after buying them in lamb, you can buy them in lamb at different times. And you'd be letting them out on grass. You might actually have a cheaper yowl for the 20 euro extra that you're paying in February and in March. And in March, it could actually work out that the yowl could be cheaper. Now, obviously there's downfalls of buying in lamb yows. You know, you don't know what you're buying. But there is genuine people selling yows. And the thing is, you will have problems with yows no matter what. Like, suppose an example is, we bought seven mule yows last year. We paid 200, almost 200 euro for the yows. I think there was quite a few dead lambs on them. And you could say, well, did I not go back to the market or got them? And I kind of thought there was no real point because the lambs were alive and just they were dead. Closer to lambing. And I think what happened was either they got a knock in the mart. Or when I brought them home and I had my own yows, that they might have done a bit of fighting or got a few knocks that way. But I will see this year how the yows do. But I put a few lambs onto the yows and I got a shari lamb off of that and I put it onto the yowl. And that mule yowl, where the shari lamb on poor ground, it was up high ground. That lamb was the best lamb that we had for the year for the factory or for anything else. We actually had two lambs off of mules in Mead at a show when they were at a French lamb class. So it said I think the lambs had to be 42 kilos or whatever. And our two lambs were maybe 43. You know, but they were too good lambs. And the judge gave it to these little Beltex lambs. And these lambs were not, these lambs weren't even 15 kilos or 20 kilos. And I heard a judge saying that after I thought them lambs were too good a lambs. Yes, they were too good, but they were way better than what was there. And when they were killed out, it would have been ideal for any market. Never mind French, German or Polish, it wouldn't matter. But that's besides my point. It just shows that you know how much you put into the lambs. So suppose just if you were thinking of buying in lamb yows or buying dry yows next year, you might be better holding on because if prices stayed the way they're going at the moment, like yows could be extremely dear next year. And you know, and so the same guy, I suppose he bought two year old yows in end of August. I think they made two year old yows maybe 300 euro. So again, that's only 15 euro more for in lamb yows. So it's something for maybe someone might think about that rather than racing to the sails in September to kind of hold your powder dry, keep up the feel of grass and you might have a cheaper sheep. Particularly if you're not worried about breeds or if you knew a certain person was selling. So even if it cost you an extra tenor, you'd probably be getting on better. And you know, so it's pros and cons. And I suppose at least nowadays there is them options. Them options are important. So the only thing is about fostered yows and pet lambs. So this year we've got a few pet lambs and we've put fostered yows on it. And two of the yows worked out brilliant. Not a bottle on it. And the last yow, we named it and got the two lambs and picked them up. And done rightly, she got two yow lambs. I'd let her on at it. I'd nothing to do with it. Let her on. She'd pick the lambs and had the jets and done all she had to do. And she came home. She was chuffed for her two lambs. Puts two lambs on the yow. Everything was great. And I let the yow out of the bale about five days later to see how she was getting on. And lo and behold, she came back that night and the yow had wedged herself between the gap where the bale is. So she wedged herself down and jumped herself. So the yow was dead. So now we have two pet lambs. So she evanes out feeding them and that. But they're two yow lambs. So it's a bit of a nuisance. Because, come on, they're loud. I've never heard two lambs roar like it. So it's basically, it's a pain in the ass. But I wonder what kind of my point is, is it more tradition that we're going and getting the pet lambs rather than selling the foster yow? Because I would feel bad about selling the foster yow. And I see a hand-down deal sometimes. The foster yow, 300 or 200 yow. And ain't them white put up the foster yow. I'll give you 100 yow for her. And I'm sure she'd make more than the market. So, kind of felt like that. Like you're paying 30 or 40 yow for pet lambs. You're probably not. Probably really not worth the hassle of the bale of the lambs. But then, you can't have dry yow running around. So would you be better selling your, your, eh, in lam yow as a cast yow or as a foster yow? Which would you be better doing like? But I know if I was to buy your foster yow and paint on a door for it wouldn't be. I wouldn't be doing it. I just, I wouldn't think to be anything in it. So it's, it's, it's just something to think about. Like, we got the yow lambs. And now, the thing is we've got two, four, four yow lambs now. Them four yow lambs will be kept. There are Texels and Charlotte Crosses. And it was a reason we're keeping them. Is because the plan is in two years time. Clam a few of them yow's in March, in time, January time, February time. It's, I've always, something that I've always wanted to do and try it was to have a little batch lambing along there. And the fact that the van's getting older and she likes going out to the shed and checking on the few yow's that I've had. Maybe 20 to 25 kind of Texel and Mule's and that across. That it would be nice to, for her to just go out and check them. And like, she checks what's in the shed lambs mom every day. Now I'm working. So, when she loves them. So when she loves them, it might be just, when there's, when there's less, and there's less pressure, it might be good for her. And also, I do look and I see people on Facebook and Instagram. I see a lot of people doing an awful lot of different mixers yow's that, today of having Mule's or Chessels. Or Mule's or Chessels or Hornies or whatever you have. Just having the one breed seems to be gone because people seem to have an awful lot of mixture of breeds. So, we'll see. We'll see. Look, it's just something that we've been mulling around in the brain for last year. So, I suppose the next few weeks, basically we're going to be getting sheep ready for lambing. The twins are home. We have to be home the singles. The twins are, the twins are, the twins are when we started feeding the twins there this week. So, they're not getting busted out of it. But, the water is a big problem. And, I suppose, basically next few weeks is going to be hanging a few gates, tying up a few bits and pieces. What bits are going to be doing will be up on the Instagram story. And, we're going to try and keep on top of these things. Try and not let the jobs get build up too much. But, in a week's time or some, yeah, in about a week's time, I'll be putting up a video on YouTube. And, it's about a shed that we use in the lambing outdoors. The shed's something small. But, it's really easy to use. There's little paddocks outside it. So, for anyone that's lambing outside or lambing in the hills, a shed in the corner of the field. It doesn't cost a lot of money. It might be interesting to some people. But, it's something I use a lot. Because, like my father put up a timber shed there, oh, I'd say 30 years ago, maybe more. And, it's still standing. There's not a hobble on it. The shed I put up is probably 10, 12 year old. And, again, there's not a hobble on it. So, the only thing we've done different is, you might add in water trucks and stuff like that. So, them little jobs will have to be done alright. But, I suppose it's just to make things handier. So, that's today's podcast. Again, I thank you for listening to me and having the chats. That it's great that it has got such a good reaction. And, don't forget to subscribe on YouTube and help the channel grow. It's quite important. And, chat to you all very soon.