Tech-smart farming to feed a growing global population
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I5pMO9HxAXw
News & Politics
 From livestock to crops, new technologies are becoming an intrinsic part of a farmer's working day, resulting in more and better agricultural products. Precision Agriculture supports farmers with more sustainable practices. Precision Farming aims to generate more results in agricultural activities while using few resources such as water, energy, fertilizers and pesticides. It mainly uses information technology, data from satellites and the Internet of Things. The aim is not only to make life easier for farmers, but also to increase yields in the most resource-efficient way possible. For instance, ground sensors can calculate the optimum time for crop irrigation using the least amount of water. Or this robot can milk cows automatically. Precision Agriculture is common sense, but it's using technologies from the eye in the sky and all sorts of wonderful things to make the farmer's job easier, to target, to reduce costs, to reduce wasteful runoff of inputs which can impact negatively on the environment. By 2050, the global population is expected to have increased from 7 to 10 billion. To respond to this demographic challenge, agricultural yields will need to grow by 70 to 100%. We have 3 billion people more to give good quality of food, the right quantity, so we have to see how can we change the pattern of what we eat, and therefore we will need a lot of technology. And I think certain kinds of robots will also make it easier to harvest the different qualities at the right time, in the right moment. The next challenge is to teach farmers how to use these new technologies. Keep our family farm structure so important to us, but use every available technology in a wise way. Empower our farmers, particularly our young farmers, to see these opportunities, because I know they want to seize them if they're given the opportunity to do that, and to have a win-win for consumers, producers and the environment. For those who would like to know more, precision farming was the subject of a study by the European Parliament's STOA Panel on Science and Technology. It's accessible to all just a few clicks away.