Vertical Farming Technology | What is NFT Hydroponics?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i7NuHzkAJdk
Science & Technology
 All right, so here's an update from the NFT system that we are growing in, the vertical NFT systems. We are growing marigold or targetis, what it's called, and here we're growing them for flowers. We had some minor issues with some of the drains, clucking, and I had to change some plants in one of the tubes. Overall, everything grows very great and we are starting to get some flowers very soon. So, this is about a month and a half of growth inside the system here. We can see here with our T8 lights, they are really growing great and they are getting all the light that they need. They're growing, not stretching as much as they are over here. We are starting to see some results from the systems that we are having here. We're growing as a NFT system and an NFT system is called Nutrient Film Technique. It's basically that you have a vertical tube or a horizontal gutter and inside here you put the roots inside. And then you close off the surface so it's closed off and we have water going either down or horizontally. And in this way we will have an irrigation tank where we are pumping the water through the system. And by doing this we can actually keep the growth and we can make sure the plants are happy if they have the right nutrients and the right amount of light. Then we can grow them in a way where we are able to grow flowers, herbs and salads in systems like this. So in these systems we are able to grow a lot of plant material in a very small amount of space. Utilizing as much space as possible. This is a small setup and this is a small R&D facility. So this is just to see how we can maximize the growth and maximize the output of this. There is a great opportunity in growing salads like this. And salads in general are a food stable resource that you can grow. You can really control in here the amount of cleanliness in the room and thereby you don't get disease in the same way that you can get them on the fields. You can really make sure that bacteria and other nasty things don't get into the food by controlling it in an inside room. And this is a great power of the NFT systems. So this is vertical NFT and there is vertical NFT and horizontal NFT. Over here in the back we have a horizontal NFT. So this is a trolley that we are working with and this trolley here is something that we are going to grow flowers in as well I think. In the later of the year, at the end of the year we are going to start growing salads because we see a great, opportunity in growing salads as well. It is a great market potential I believe because it is so scalable with salads that we can grow a lot of food on a very small amount of space. This is a very small room but there is still a great, great yield coming out of it. That is essentially our progress from the systems here. We will be building a new trolley system with the vertical NFT where we are going to make it as a scalable solution. So we can also offer these trolleys and ship them out in the world and help growers all over Europe to start growing their own salads and own herbs, own edible flowers. If you are interested in equipment like this and if you are interested in setting up your own grow space, then visit us at NordicHydro.com and then you can see what we are able to offer currently. And then we will also be able to supply with seeds and valuable knowledge in how to make this work. Because this is not just something that you set up. You need experience and you need to know how to run the irrigation. You need to know how to set up the light properly. And also you need to understand which plants and how to grow them. That is very, very important because there has been a lot of learning just getting to this point. But soon in the next video from this room, from this system, we will be able to show you a lot of awesome edible flowers. Yeah, so that's the video for today. Vertical NFT. That is the power of Vertical NFT. You need to know how to grow a lot more on less space. Optimize your space as much as possible and grow herbs, salads and edible flowers. We could also maybe try to grow some strawberries in these systems. But currently we see there is a greater potential in the salads and the herbs. Last thing I want to mention is that if you want to learn how to operate a system like this and how to grow these plants. We have made a small course. It's for the members of this channel. So if you are a Vertical Greener and you are a member of the channel, it's a small, small fee. We have put a link in the description of this video so you can go to that link and then you can become a member of the Vertical Greens family here on YouTube. You will see all the videos we put out. You will see them before everyone else because there will always be some time where the videos are able to for you only to see them before they are uploaded officially on the YouTube channel. And in there as well, we have a video series about how this room has been operated, how what we have learned from growing plants in these systems. So it's easy for you to learn how to grow it. And then you can also help support the channel that way. It's a very small fee, almost nothing, but it's a great value in learning and in knowledge. So if you're interested, go to the first link in the description of this video and I will also pin it in a comment. So I hope to see you on the member side and then I hope that you are going to have a lot of fun growing. Take care. Bye bye. Take care. Bye bye.