Herd Quitter® Minute - The Cost Of Feeding Hay
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i9Fntglw0nU
People & Blogs
 In my part of the world, the calves are weaned, cows are out grazing, the weather's mild and the living is easy. Cows are storing up some body condition to help make it through the winter. However, there's probably some more snow just around the corner. A lot of people in our country will be feeding hay by Christmas. So have you ever considered how much that really costs? In the typical cow-calf operation, winter feed costs are the largest expense on the spreadsheet. For example, due to the drought in western Colorado, mixed hay is selling for $250 a ton. At a modest rate of 25 pounds, that adds up to over $3 per head per day. Feeding hay from January through April would cost $375 per cow. Many ranchers will rationalize that it doesn't cost them that much because they put up their own hay. But from a business perspective, you should charge your cows whatever that hay is worth if you were to sell it. Here's a few options that can decrease the amount of hay needed to get your cows through the winter. Number one, stockpile more grass to extend the length of the grazing season. Number two, make use of crop residue. Corn stalks, weeds, or milo stubble are cheap alternatives to feeding hay. Number three, consider moving your cows. If you can find grazing elsewhere, it may be cheaper to haul your cows to the feed than to haul feed to your cows. Number four, train your cows to electric fence. A polywire fence can open up all sorts of grazing possibilities that others don't see. Number five, feeding apple cider vinegar enhances the cow's digestive process and will stretch the feed that you have. Number six, plant cover crops in late summer or fall for winter grazing. For instance, forage sorghum can still be accessed through snow. Number seven, change your genetics to moderate framed, easy fleshing cattle that require less feed. There's no doubt I'll be feeding too much hay this winter, but I'm headed in the right direction. Anything you can do to extend the amount of time your cows are grazing rather than eating hay, you will reduce winter feed costs. Grazing consultant Jim Garish says, Every time you put a piece of steel between your cow's mouth and the forage she eats, you're reducing your profit. If you're serious about reducing winter feed costs, you should read Jim's book, Kick the Hay Habit. Faro Cattle Company does more than just sell bulls. We offer solutions to help make your operation more profitable and more enjoyable. I'll see you next time on the Herd Quitter Minute. We'll see you next time on the Herd Quitter Minute.