FINALLY my dream CAME TRUE‼️ Preparing the Farm for Planting Season! 🌱 | Tilling the Soil
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I_mfaD9wZ5o
Howto & Style
 What's up guys? Hope you are doing good. This is live with Makori again. I'm in the village and this is the perfect example how busy people are in the village. You can see they are really working very very very hard. Guys, I want you to ask yourself this is really the life where you want to wake up to where you are being woken up by the sounds of birds, chickens, the mowing of cows and this strong wind from trees. So for me I would rather wake up to a beach and maybe enjoy the swimming pool. But this is where God started to bat me and I did enjoy this place so I have to love it. I have to embrace it. So guys today I'm working in the farm. You know you guys if you are new here kindly do me that favor and hit that subscription button. I'm a man on a mission to step into every country and its villages and also taste every kind of food. I'm raised to 3000 subscribers and if you are my returning subscriber here thank you so much may God bless you for supporting live with Makori to this moment. So I really ask you guys continue supporting and join my community. I'm raised to 3000 subscribers guys to 5 to 10. So kindly continue supporting live with Makori to this moment. And my God bless you guys. So we are here at the farm. So guys I used to give you contents along the village. I take you around interact with some villages but today I decided I have to bring you right to the farm. So we have just started this. We are working really really hard and this is it guys. So thank you so much and we are here at the farm so new things are coming guys. You can see new things are coming up. New things are coming up. It's so nice and guys look at this which means the rain has not gone down well. We need a lot of rain. So guys I will be planting a lot of maize here and also I will be having kelts but I want maize from this part. The other side because guys I have a mission. I need to have a lot of chicks. That's why I need a lot of maize, corn so that I can have enough food. So that's one way of trying to invest. So guys today I'm tilling this place. These are my friends from the village here. So they are here. When they finish they need to get paid. So I pay for them to browse this. So maybe tomorrow and the other day I need to look for money for more seeds. So I need seeds to plant this place here. Yeah. So this is it guys. I'm so excited because my farm is being plowed. You know guys when you don't have the means to grow the farm. It really becomes very very very challenging. And so this is it guys. It's so so amazing. And I want to show you guys. I want to show you on how I do this. And I want to show you guys. I want to show you guys. I want to show you guys when you're doing this. So this is a wonderful place. I want to show you guys. I want to show you guys asked me for ÇokівDB. I'm interested in the app. And I'll show you guys for those who are interested in one of thepoint videos. So since you guys want to show you guys being done in a few videos though. So if you've negotiated, you can't ищ produkt though at all. We'll see you next time. We'll see you next time. We'll see you next time. We'll see you next time. So I want to run to the center to pick some of the things. So guys, I'm so excited. So excited. Okay. Yeah. This is my beautiful home. So guys, I was at the farm. I need to run and pick some of the things from the center. They were sitting there. So that, yeah, it rained a lot. And I have some guys at the farm. So I have to tie up my shoe. So guys, I'm here. We're here in the morning. And yeah, guys, I'm heading to town. I'm heading to town. And I want to go and fix. So guys, I was asking if you can take me to Rongo. But I said, it's trying to pick somebody. So we can not. So guys, this is my home, guys. This is my home village. So I'm waiting for another motorbike to come. So guys, I'm on it. So guys, I'm on it. So guys, I'm on it. So guys, I'm on it. So guys, I'm on it. So guys, I'm on it. So guys, I'm on it. So guys, I'm on it. ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ So guys, i am in Rongo and i have just picked this, to a centre of the bus from premium car. yeah so I picked and I have to leave now it was the first thing so we need to just go this way so this is called the Rongo town it's a big town and it's always busy so you need to be careful when you're closing the road the road is going to be closed so that fits okay I'm going to pick someone else so guys we have just arrived let me just wait I'm just in the outdoor so guys I'm here I brought the basement I brought the seeds so we are gonna plug this wow so I need to go and see what this guy is gonna eat breakfast so let me check let me check them out I'm so excited guys because I'm gonna plant now yeah yeah yeah yeah so amazing and the sun's up so nice man so nice so amazing that was a pity wow wow guys so wow guys so we are back again and these guys have finished this place man wow how you can see so very soon I will be planting maize here I will come and bloom this because yeah I will trim this side here wow wow wow wow wow wow wow hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey well hey hey hey hey hey yeah to hear sorry for this desseice Number number You can only see the anderen . There is this! Guys, if you are a Kwanzaa, you will have a gem. So this is what we do. When you come to the first day, we welcome you. The second day, we give you a gem. You work. So guys, wow. This place is really moving downwards. So quick, man. So which means I need to start planting any day from tomorrow. I already have one bag of maids. Hi. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. This guy is very lazy. Oh my god. Higher, higher, higher. Upara, upara. Higher, higher, higher. 20, 20. You see the people who have eaten a lot of matoki and ugali. How do they do? No. Don't lie. You are lying. Guys, the place too. Hey, Ningum. Oh my goodness. But this work for real. It needs energy. And it needs somebody who is energetic. It's not about to eat. It's not about to try. No. And I tried. Oh my god. But it is a risk, guys. I've just done it. It's not that easy. It is not that easy. Wow. Yeah. Wow. Yeah. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. And we've never been, no one day at all. No. Wow. Wow. Wow. So, we have a lot of stories. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. wow yeah you need this from man I need to eat or you want me to show you on how we do let us see guys it was my turn now it's my core let us see is he going to make it to know that is guys and show all to be honest just heavy but guys just tell us to come the last guys let us engage comment section tell us I and Macquarie see me and see Macquarie are we look like he's a muscle guy first second he used to do this you see he has a lot of sugar canes there this is what he do and he used to do it so Macquarie don't lie to me that you don't know this I believe that you I am the village boy so you used to do this yeah I see you have a lot of sugar laddies are two hackers that's two hackers so mean that oh my god oh my goodness see how we are doing these things man I can't see show us the stones man don't worry about the stones it can punch this one what about what you are doing you see so guys that's what I was just trying to tell you that is not that easy no matter what you are a villager or not it is not easy for sure not easy guys I'd be a villager guys to be a farmer you need a lot of you don't have to eat you gully and my Tokyo also what is my Cody without my talk is what else we're not let us leave alone my talk and you gully what else another type of food do you have in this village yeah just want to know that it is you want to plant cons here wow and next mix to experiment this place is it a hector zero hacker how do you call it three quarters three quarters guys they use the bulls these are the bulls they used to farm with dig farm and they use that thing I don't know the name of it or the name of that that one that you use let us go across to my core and then he just found that you have not here it you see just how one hand very energetic a lot of my talking and sweet potatoes here not else you know as there guys guys as you used to eat those soft foods rice and all that why do you eat soft foods or gully sometimes but here guys it's all about my talk sugar can sweet potatoes gully porridge see the bulls are so energetic wow look at this but you're just repeating to the same place and you're trying to tell us that you are that energetic very energetic no you are using the same same place the place guys have I was just crashing that the place that he just continuing with and they're just telling us that he's not that energetic but guys there is a reason he's just doing amazing at this amazing place I can't complain with it because for sure it needs an energy energy and he's a farmer and a farmer at me he's supposed to farm I need a lot of how can I put it guys he's supposed to farm and what else yes guys guys guys kindly support this channel by subscribing share and comment and don't forget to like this video guys to be recommended and guys kindly watch this video until the end when it pops to a screen guys don't forget don't skip watch the ads and then second guys watch until the end third show love guys to this this channel support my brother guys he has been struggling with this for long just motivate motivate him in a little bit where guys he's just going to enjoy the fruits of this platform I just been monetized yes but he's just still crying with fighting guys so guys I know you can make it just support him show him some love as we are one family you know this platform made us to be family made us to be one community made us even to know each other there are some people from Europe some people from Caribbean some people even from Africa some people all over the world this is the platform that made us to know each other to have friends to have international friends so kindly guys support uh in your true heart don't support halfly just support in a full way whereby guys actually this will just come and I know God we're just going to add more to your pockets whereby you're going to support this kind of people and this is sassy being underscore sassy from this side and sassy is as i go and check me out and uh i will just go and i will just go and appreciate your love and support and the subscription guys is highly appreciated so we love you as we proceed to this uh amazing and amazing uh work over here this is Africa guys and we are Africans and Africans must struggle African massacre i don't know why it is like that we have to use energy we don't have the machines like other people there we use machines to work with it i don't know if even uh today you are uh i don't know but uh let me say that actually uh we are doing and we are using energy uh we are supposed to work with energy uh we are supposed to work with energy it is not about the machines but we put something to machine and then it will you know i as here it's about energy so you have to eat well then you are going to you know and you have to have that energy like life with makori there without having that uh trust me to do that it's not that easy i've tried guys you saw i've just trying i've tried my best uh you know that easy but kindly guys my humble request this from my heart is that i love you so much my colleagues my family our community so this request guys kindly kindly support us uh check us out watch our videos in the end guys we're just chasing all i'm chasing hours and subscribers to go to 1000 subscribers remember he just want to achieve the goals he just monetize but he needs that uh you know what i mean guys when i say that so kindly kindly don't skip this word it's the word from me and it is from my heart kindly i know you love him guys you being with him so show him some loves show him love guys remember love is for free uh let us not use that humans love because let us use the god's love the way god's love us god show love for us you know so we are proceeding to this amazing they're using the bulls to this is not the tractor you know guys the tract is so expensive so we are supposed to use the bulls so that things were just going well according you are going to done this place you will finish yeah i have to finish today yeah you finish this place and then you will start planting and remember these cows use even the bloods they're not machines so be careful when you are just dig the stones there's stones there some stones they're just not uh what we call the stones will just move away because they know who i am they know you then they know who you are why don't you correct these all stones then you sell you correct i said yeah there are many stones for you many many many stones so hold on you was making stories there is nothing like stories then you have done the story nothing like stories here we are not making stories we are making history i just was making history also this is what we do are you mad floats okay oh oh my god oh even the place is so hard yeah you know the soil is so steep yeah this is rum is that tree or rum this is tree soil oh oh oh shirarimu what the quidunarimu ah guys i'm finishing this you've done it you've held back another time so that when you bark that will be the end bring them in this wow wow you're gonna get that more so guys we have done another place so guys we have done another place and it was heavy life with makori tell us how do you feel man you must eat ugali if you eat that's that's so if you eat rice you will not get this energy we believe we will eat ugali yeah he's supposed to have muscles they're not muscles john cena no no no why why why oh my goodness do you think this but you you just catch this it is too heavy once and it's too heavy for real you have finished so guys we are expecting planting tomorrow yeah they're starting planting tomorrow the corns no i will not start tomorrow because for sure i need some you have many power many powers many power and then so that they can help me have some holes and then how many bags do you need this place i need like 3 bags or 3 bags of yeah of corns so that it can finish this place yeah and i already have one i went i went to rongo oh to bring it from my mother and yours i managed to buy one so i have one i need also to to help them i need some like like 4 people come and help me plant is it yeah these guys so so so so guys i wonder why why they use that common language each and everyone why why all of you just using that common language yeah because it is our language you know let me tell you i want to be very very honest we were colonized by british people and they taught us english but the real sense when people learn by their own language like i could have they understand better because they learn by their own language and that's why you see the chinese and many people they learn by their own language so they lied to us they brought us this name this english so english is not it's just like any other language it's not a mesh of education or what that's why anybody can speak in english so we speak in our own language do you mean that the chinese are not speaking english yeah most of them they don't they learn by their their language but they don't speak english they speak i i'm not saying they don't speak english just get the point straight they speak english but it is not their main they learn by chinese that's why you see this my phone my camera my camera and i am not saying that they speak english but it is not their main they learn by chinese that's why you see this my phone my camera is made from china that's why it has you see so that's what i'm trying to say so we speak a lot of our vernacular language because that's what we know in the village here and we love speaking to our we cannot abandon our ancestral our ancestral language our ancestral language and we love speaking to our we cannot abandon our ancestral language our ancestral language language no so that is it and guys we are finished now plowing now what i need is planting so i will need like four men to come and help me so that we can plant it in one day this place in one day and i need like two more bags or maize but i'm gonna do it man i'm gonna do it yeah i will try my best my best but not tomorrow but when if it takes like two days yeah when if it takes like two days oh my goodness we will have done everything so guys so this is it so this is the village our village is called Nyataro Nyataro village yeah so guys i'm trying to carry it i brought some breakfast with this so i'm trying to carry it to carry home yeah these are the utensils i need to carry them so we are done from the farm so guys i want to say thank you so much thank you so much because even if i'm gonna end this video from here i want to say thank you so much may god bless you for watching this video to this end and if you like the video kindly give it a like so that it can get to be sent to many people so i want to say thank you so much for the love and support and yeah this is the live in the village so stay tuned and see you in the field yeah peace man peace peace peace peace peace out