The Benefits of Crop Rotations (Hall 2/6)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IA0WPd0TMPs
Science & Technology
 In this video, Jesse talks to us about how soil health and changing his crop rotations and introducing animals has actually made money for it. Jesse also talks about infiltration rates which he frequently measures on his farm. The procedure Jesse uses is to take a six inch ring, hammer it into the ground and then measure the time it takes for one inch of water to infiltrate. And even if you break even on your small grain, when you look at the yield bump you get on your corn, your soybean crop after that, and also if you're grazing after your small grain, your profitability goes up. Even though you broke even the one year, you still make more than you would have in the two year rotation. So basically here, we're in a corn soybean oat rotation. I used to do rye but the profits kind of come out of rye in the last few years. The reason that I pick oats is we raise it as a seed crop and then we started a seed cleaning operation now to where we actually have an air screen and a gravity table and we clean it and sell it as a clean product. And so oats works good for us. What I really like about the three-way rotation is that since we brought in this third crop, our corn yields have gone, corn soybean yields have gone up significantly. Within a three year span, my soybean yields probably went up three to five bushel an acre across the farm average and corn 10 to 12. I would have to say that's maybe being, I mean that's right in there and that's pretty, they've been pretty consistent. Our infiltration rates have increased and when you raise that oats, it also gives you a chance to diversify your modes of action on your herbicides. So the idea is to try and kind of cut down and like waterhemp particularly. What I really like about oats is now we have an opportunity to cover crop in it and now the Jim and I are putting up fences and this way we can bring livestock back into the system is just another factor which is going to drive that soil health. You know, I know I had gone to some other workshops in the past they talked about that our soil doesn't have enough microbes in it and then the best way to bring them back is to bring animals back on back into the rotation. But it adds a level of profitability so here you're raising a third crop that helps increase all the yields on all three crops. Then you turn around put a cover crop in it and drive soil health in it and you can graze animals on it and then you know build a level of productivity back into that and it kind of works it all you know it's basically a systems approach is what it is. Cover crops that I like best I guess for us is would be putting like a rye and a rapeseed mixed in after the oats. No-tilling beans in a rye is just it's just you can't believe the difference between that and just going into straight corn and stuff.