Paul's story: Youth in agribusiness in Kenya
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iDm9GhKmOOk
News & Politics
 We have been laced up doing farming, though it looked like some kind of punishment, so it never linked my mind that I could do agriculture. Lural to urban migration is very common, especially with the youth. That is because of lack of employment. After moving to the city and setting up a business, and it collapsed, which forced me to go back home, that one, I can see it was very stressful. I lost all my money and I came back at zero. That's when my idea for moving to Canada came. I wanted to fly away. We have a mindset that certain countries are better than ours. And we think that if we go to that country, we can make it big. But right now I have come to learn that most of the people who go abroad, they don't really make a lot of money. Because once they come back, they still go back to square one. Right now I have come to learn that agriculture has the potential to create many jobs. Because currently in Africa, we still have an opportunity to come up with agribusinesses, which can sustain our economy and improve our livelihood. I think the reason why agriculture is not attracting youth is low adoption of technology. If technology is brought into agriculture, it will bring high yields and more income. The land-fed agriculture, on the other hand, is very... Yes, it is easy, but due to peak seasons, most of the produce go to waste. But with the technology like this one, thanks so far, they gave me the drip system. Now I can be able to produce even in dry seasons, when the prices are good. When I'm working in my field, it feels good to see the green crops growing. You are the caretaker. It feels good when you are seeing crops thriving, healthy. It feels good. I'm happy anyway. That means... Italia. It feels good. So I want to take a start, subscribe! I do not just have any other videos. irgendwie share Tri抓. This is my спасибо reader, and I do not listen to a region. Do not listen to a preacher, while you are tapping on the phone, which has the same Tä bye Love. You do not listen to a preacher. But if you are on the avenue for yourself. It doesn't Раст染 matter. It is so fun to listen to a journalist. You can't talk because of the knowledge of people over dediates and Vera m least do more than a patriot sooner in the country. Sure that doesn't do anything in this country to make and live yet.