FARMING SIMULATOR 2017 | CORN MAZE DESIGNING WITH COMBINE + HAY WAGON RIDES
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IdRcE_QaH5k
Gaming
 We are gonna be making a cool anime dude big big shout out to skirt skirt skirt dude He made he told me he gave me the idea and I was like dude that is awesome idea We are gonna do that video tomorrow, so we are making a corn maze We're gonna get everything set up just like you would see like if you went and paid like ten bucks Like if you live in town like outside town, maybe you'd see a corn maze Obviously a lot of you guys are from the farm and stuff So you guys you guys just like do this stuff for fun and stuff But so I got like this Massey I thought it'd be cool to get a Massey in here guys This isn't like farming at all this isn't gonna be one of my farmer videos It's not even gonna be an episode. We're just making corn maze. It's just kind of a type of farm since I guess We're combining corn and I guess I'm gonna need something to unload the corn Into I didn't think about that But we're gonna have the bail trailer, you know hook the model a let's get the model a going Check this thing out look at it popping. I love it. Okay. I love the little two-cylinder sound and what we're gonna do is Just back it up there boom. We got the wagon for rides rides across here And then we're just gonna do we're just gonna make in this cornfield and do one thing the guy said skirt skirt had said Is that we should make spencer tv and normano try to make their way through it now? I don't think i'm gonna be able to get it all done in one episode But I think it would be cool if I put into two episodes and tried to get it and tried to get it all Done so that way they could go through it and dude I don't know if I can make it good enough to where like they're gonna have a tough time getting through it I don't dude. I'm to be honest guys. I don't know if I'm not that creative to be honest, but I'll be I don't know We'll just see where we can get I got the sign back placeable signs So it says spencer tv normano stuff like that so I can throw a couple signs in there I'm gonna buy here. I'll get the buy bail mod check this out buy Bails oh wait, where would this be at? I think it would be in bailing technology Wait, how do I buy bales? I got the buy bail mod How do I buy the bales though are they placeables? They're not placeables? Okay, here's the signs gosh. How do I did I buy the bales again? What I remember buying the oh miscellaneous I think No cars is in pallets There it is. There it is. Okay. I got to figure out what bales I should get These would probably be the easiest this stack of bales So we'll buy these and we'll just kind of decorate, you know, the the corn maze a little bit and stuff too So I think first things we gotta get a dude. We gotta use a semi We gotta use a semi just okay. Look how much more we have to you guys This is like all is for fun. We should do like a multiplayer livestream where you guys can come and like play on it and try it out I guess that'd be pretty cool to try it out But I gotta buy a semi just to unload the grain into because Peterbilt wait I think this lags on my gate. I think this is the one like this on my game No, it doesn't okay um and then we need a true Tip us tip us let's go over here to tip us now I remember always going to the corn maze dude if you're excited to go corn maze if you're gonna go corn maze let me know in the comment section Uh if you're gonna hit up the corn maze a lot of you guys are from a farm like I said so you guys probably like you know just run through the corn and really are always in the field so you probably don't even go to corn mazes but Dude this semi is really good. Why? Why haven't I been using it man? This is a sweet semi this works Why don't I use this more often this Peterbilt? I like it Okay, uh we'll go right there. I had to make sure it was a Peterbilt for sure because honestly to get I'm not too good with my semis guys I gotta admit I'm not too good with my semis but dude this is a good semi why don't I use this? We're gonna start using this in my farming series. We are gonna start dude this is an awesome semi I need to start using that thing okay. I had it forever. I just didn't start using it And we need to get a bobcat to move these bales around. We'll throw a couple on On the wagon. I got what do you call this wagon? Hey, wagon. Hey, hey rack. Hey rack. Hey rack We'll throw a couple on the hay rack Uh, so that way we can have some like seats on there. So hey, I got the bobcat skid loader. Let's grab this bobcat Uh, we haven't got a tracked one might as well get a tracked one This probably isn't the time to get a tracked one, but hey haven't got a tracked one might as well Got a bail fork so We'll move stuff with that see this is what i'm talking about the tracks are kind of like I know they're kind of like glossy where it doesn't look that good. They're decent They're decent. They're decent Um, and so should we just get started? I think we should just get started And so no cop no stop we got farm equipment anyways, hopefully nobody's around dude Okay, we got like a little too small a header. I think because look at this check this out Like you get the wheels kind of stick out a little bit, so I think we got Wait do I have to buy this field? Whatever. I got enough money. We're gonna buy a Fred edward edward gomez oh wait What are we buying ready to go to work? I need the field over so Wait Does he does he give me okay? I bought something did I buy the combine okay? No, I didn't I thought I like bought a combine or something I was like what? Um, so we just bought the field I gotta fit dude I'm trying to think how I could do this So obviously a corn maze the trick is to like trick people it's not supposed to be too easy, but then again It's not supposed to be too hard. This is good. Dude. This could be tough especially when you can walk through it And actually you can't zoom out. Oh, dude. I gotta have these guys try out my corn maze. Okay. What we'll do Is i'm saying we just start you know what we'll go in a little ways start over here Dude I guys it's gonna be tough. I wish I grill man in here because grill man is pretty Creak. Oh gotta unfold the tool first gotta unfold the combine first and it isn't full the way. Is that how it is? Okay, we're rolling We are rolling now usually I think they they either come harvest it and then mow over it or something like that Because that way you don't those stocks sticking up and stuff and that way people aren't tripping in the stocks in the corn maze So I'm not sure how they do it in real. Okay, there we go Okay, so what's the first step gonna be dude should we go? Okay, the first step we'll do Is to take a dead end many many ways this is my first step Okay, they're gonna go okay, we'll go this way just keep going straight out here and then curve it up a little bit And then look what's gonna happen right here. We're gonna run to a dead end. Okay, so that's my first little chip trickery Then we got going okay. I better shut this thing off. We're gonna be right over a little corn I do apologize about that, but we'll keep going through here and then what i'll do is i'll make another I'll make another dead end right here Actually This one will just keep going straight. We'll just keep going straight with ah, I don't know I'll make a dead end going left. I'll make a dead end going left So here's my dead end going left And then what it'll do is it'll go straight and then go right along here Okay, okay, okay, and then we'll take a left in here should it cross? Okay, we can't go too far. We'll just make a little turn so that way they don't get to that corner They don't get to this corner because like you okay think about it guys you'd be coming through here You'd be coming through here and you'd be like look down here and be like, oh, it's a dead end So that's why we're gonna make a turn right here And they're gonna have to walk all the way down here and then realize there's an actual dead end So we'll go all the way over here. Okay, we better stop before we hit that good enough Okay, we better back our way out of here without run over like too much corn. Oh, dude, we're gonna hit the corn a little bit and then Okay, we're just gonna we're just gonna kind of run over the corn a little bit and then should we keep going straight? I'm thinking I'm thinking it'd be cool to keep going straight or You know what? Their first right is where it's gonna go out here So i'm gonna go right right here and this is gonna be the actual path the actual path that's gonna lead to things The actual path you should take dude. You gotta be smart like you gotta have this planned out so good I'm sure of course they they plan it out and draw a map and stuff, but Okay, where's the next? What should we do? Okay, so this is what we got so far dude. Should we keep going? Oh We'll make it swerve a little we'll make a little curve to her about make a little curve through the field We actually haven't even harvested that much corn. We got a lot in storage yet Okay, I don't know why I'm doing this but I'm gonna take a big chunk of this right here Make a literal Swirl If you know what I mean Like you're just gonna spin around and it's gonna loop just straight back. That's all it's gonna do So they'll be like so look okay watch this watch this watch this Okay, we'll keep going and we should finish like right here Okay, so here we go think it through of course there's not gonna be huge comment in the way But you'll be like dude guys left or right should we go left or right? They go left nothing happens. Oh dude, this is what I should have done for a dead end, but whatever and then I'll make a big swirl right there and then this is where I continue it out So that's another data and that's this is just like all trickery stuff basically But this is where you actually go you go straight and then you know what we're gonna take this one all the way straight Down here. Where's the finish line? Where's the ending point gonna be? Yeah, guys I gotta figure this out a little bit Where do we put the ending line? Okay, uh, we'll go should we go left? Whatever we'll just go left we'll cut left just a tight turn left and then should we go Oh, dude, this is tough. This is tough. So we'll go straight up that way. We'll keep heading up through the field Make another turn Okay, dude, my turns are like really weird. I wonder how this is doing that They're insanely weird. Um Oh, you know what we could do So we can make it cut back and combine here in case they want to yeah, what we'll do is we'll make it cut back And then combine Over here Okay, I think that'll be good. That'll be cool. That'll be cool if they go over there And then that way that way they could just skip that part over there technically But dude, maybe I should draw do that It'd be sweet if I like drawed out the squad or something like that, too I guess we could do that and they gotta keep going too bad. I didn't do this on live stream So like you guys could tell me where to go what to do, you know, I think that'd be cool We'll just keep heading up here Like I don't want to I want to make this hard, but I don't want to I don't know We're gonna make a giant v right here. We're just gonna go straight up Make a v like a little triangle and then come back i'm thinking Well, actually we'll just zigzag it. We'll just zigzag this whole thing and then maybe i'll make a couple cuts through it Yeah, you know what I should do I should make the actual course get to the ending point and then go back Through it and like make some cuts and stuff throughout it to where like dead ends stuff like that Oh my gosh, dude, I would hate to go through this okay One more Zigzag we'll probably end in that corner over there. I don't know I've been really dude. I would be so mad going through this thing Okay, and then we gotta go Okay, we'll go straight out Yeah, yeah, yeah, we'll go straight out this way. I'm thinking like all the way down Here Okay, what are we what are we doing? What are we doing squad? Oh my gosh, dude, okay if we could I'm trying to think what we could do for a little trickery Dude, I gotta I wish I went to a corn maze more often guys to be to be honest with you guys I wish I went to a corn maze more often it'd be A little Easier I guess you could say What if okay should I go all the way to here and then like stop? Okay, this will just be another dead end We'll back up and then continue it going straight a little bit. I'm thinking And over there i'll just make a lot of dead ends and like trickery things over in that area So i'll finish that up but probably Not right now. Okay What am I doing here? I have no idea I could not tell you what i'm doing I'm, just going around circles and just eat them away the inside But how is this gonna I gotta figure out how this is gonna work dude if we just keep doing this I have no idea what the heck i'm doing dude. I wonder if this like spells out something if I zoom out a lot um Okay, we're just gonna cut through there Okay, I got him I got him tricked a little bit. Okay the ending honestly you guys ending's just gonna be right out here And then it's just gonna be right out by this rock. We're just gonna go straight out. It's not gonna be too much trickery I'll go back and make a couple Honestly, I'm curious to see if I could try this. I kind of want to go try it I kind of want to go run through it. Maybe at the end of the video. I'll just run through it So for right now we're right there. Okay But i'll make a couple cuts i'll make a couple cuts through it Maybe the next video if I do enough and guys if you if you enjoy this idea if you enjoy this, let me know in that like button Tell me this was a good video, but uh Okay, so we got this here. Can I zoom? I guess I can fly I can zoom out and fly Well, we'll get the whole model a going Should we put should we put like a couple like small square bales or something on this Or how is this gonna work? Okay here, you know what i'll make a little a nice little okay. We'll start it up I'll make a nice little back rack so they can sit on we'll get the we'll get the skid loader Bobcat see if I can't do this. Hopefully hopefully all you should be able to do it I need those I need those small square bales though. These large ones aren't gonna be too good, but Ah, we'll see what we can do Okay, so what i'll do is i'll go straight up And these are just gonna be for the Okay, we better line up a little better. Come on And go forward a little more right there right there sweet. We'll go. Oh wait. Oh shoot. That is uh Okay, that's what I was doing wrong See I thought that was like one whole one there and we'll keep going Tilt a little bit okay, we got it on dude. This can be actually kind of Okay, we'll just put them on the side right for right now Okay, we'll back up a little bit and just drop them I just want like a little like something they can sit actually we'll just put them in the middle Oh, dude, this is huge like how are you gonna sit On this I have no idea Okay, I guess you can just kind of sit up there on them. Oh, I was hoping that'd work out a little better than that I'm stuck i'm stuck i'm stuck man. Okay, what we gotta do is we gotta get myself out of here Come on. There we go. Sweet and then I guess there's kind of enough room to sit on here here. We'll grab the one on top Oh, are we gonna hit this in my I thought we were so close to hitting this in my oh boy Oh boy There we go. Are we gonna hit it and we got him. Okay. Okay. We'll tip back a little bit and then just put How can I do this so it works out good? Ah Here let me try doing something. Ah, is it gonna work? I can't tell if it's gonna work, but what i'm gonna try to do Is grab it from this side if this is possible Hopefully this is possible and i'll probably get that other one that we have on there off Oh boy, go a little lower There we go. Okay, this might okay. There we go. We oh come on. Come on. Oh, oh shoot Stay on there dude, come on. Come on. Stay on there. Stay on there little buddy Oh, is it gonna slip off? Okay. Okay, we'll keep going and are we gonna hit the rack? We are gonna hit that Okay, okay, okay? What we'll do is we'll keep going forward Oh, okay Come on. I gotta line up a little better Oh boy, we're just hitting the back end. Okay now this is gonna work There we go and now what i'll do is i'll take my spike and just kind of slide it Back to the side so slide it over a little bit Okay, there we go and then oh oh sweet perfect that works good. That works good. That's something they can sit on I need to face the other one kind of like that if you know what I mean um Here what we'll do is we'll lay down and then grab it from the side and then i'll just put this rack right up by the front You know you people arrived from parking lot stuff like that give them a ride around there And then we probably should go unload that high water We we don't need to unload the combine I guess or we need to say I think we're good about it This in my and then do this place those placeable signs too We got this dude on here just barely Okay, we'll just place him like right up. Oh boy. Oh boy like right up there And boom okay, you got enough space to like sit on there. Hopefully. Uh, can we strap these dudes down? We can strap them down sweet. This works good. Okay, so like look you just have like little seats So like I sit here somebody sits here somebody sits here sit up here sit up here that works good Okay, and we'll keep going I know they're not aligned like perfectly, but it gives you seats to sit down stuff got the old model I check out this way dude. It'd be fun to drive one of these. I need to get one of these. It'd be sweet How about the land? Oh boy, we're going everywhere. Okay And then we'll put this at the front. Oh boy There we go So the starting where where did I start at I started over here. Okay We'll just line them up here like give them rides from parking lots stuff like that Do we do we got it decorated a little bit? We got to put some signs go placeables Put a couple squad signs since I guess I made it and Right There there and dude, we just gotta it's it's We just got to spam this squad's corn maze baby Squad's corn maze there we go here. We'll put a couple more why not? Why not and then we'll put like once they hit a dead end so like here you hit a dead end, but you don't realize it Squad gotcha baby you hit a dead end and there's a squad sign unless they can see that through the coin that wouldn't be good But we'll put them out like dead ends here. Why not throw a couple Spencer TV signs down? I think we got a grill man sign where's another dead end at um dead end right here Boom turn the sign Spencer TV gotcha. Oh wait does that say oh it's in special TV is it's like white here? We'll put another dead end sign Just throw them right there. I mean you have signs count here We'll just we'll just kind of scatter them all through here and stuff all kind of make this a little better eventually There we go should we put like trees it would up you weird if you had trees and stuff here We'll make an office we'll put like an office down where you go and buy your ticket to the corn maze We'll put a like nice little elevated shack right here. That'd be cool the corn maze baby Sweet um here another one where you can buy tickets to the corn maze okay, so hey, it's looking kind of cool I like it so far. Dude. We could probably put okay. This is your picnic area where you go and have some fun over here here We'll put it like right along here. Uh, maybe we'll put it back here. Oh We do have that shed there. That's right. Okay picnic area just goes right along here for families They like gather and stuff There we go nice nice picnic table. Oh dude, it'd be sweet to have a fire and stuff. What else do we got? Ooh, we could put a beehive down what else is at? Ooh well power washer where kids could spray themselves off and stuff. I dude. I don't know okay Power washing you just see kids like sprayed each other with the power washer. Oh, okay. We got the hay rack and stuff I like this little hay ride we got going. Um, let's grab that semi and unload Look actually, you know what we should do Is i'll bring the bobcat over here and we'll put a couple bales just right up by the start to make it look kind of fancy And you know what i'll buy the big round bales is what we'll do so we got to find Where were they at again? Were they missile? Dude, where were those bales at? How do I not remember okay, maybe they're Bailing technology? What were those bales in they were in placeable no they're oh, they were in this that's right, okay Stack of hay bales we'll get these and then we'll place big round bales kind of right up by the start for decorations, too Can I hold two of them at the time? We'll see it's gonna be kind of tough, but I think I could do it Actually, you know what it almost be cool Ah, whatever As long as they don't roll away Okay, we gotta hold these guys at the same time Oh, dude Oh, this is sketchy This is sketchy Wait, they're like stuck together. Actually, this might work The top one is like stuck on it pretty good. Oh Oh I think it's gonna come off We're really moving. We're really wobbling Okay, it's just gonna We'll just lean against me kind of Full throttle full throttle it's going off. Okay, whatever we're good This is obviously this isn't how you you grab around, but you don't grab it right here Usually you grab it from like that top side that we're looking at right now But we'll just go back and grab the other one just place it right up by the start Oh, I can't get through there because I have my signs And here we'll just place it right by the signs. This would be cool Um There we go kids. Oh, yeah, that's right Kids can like jump on the bales and stuff like that dude stop rolling on me Oh, do we have them we grabbing this dude? Okay, we'll just place it like right the symbols to start. Come on. Come on go Okay, it kind of wants to roll away We'll place another one just kind of right by the signs to kind of make a little decorative It would probably be better if I got the big square bales though I feel like because those round bales are gonna roll and move on me and they're gonna go all over the place but Should be good Come on. There we go. We'll go in it and jump on here Okay, we'll place the other bail like right here Check out the corn maze. Okay, dude By the way guys if you guys have any other ideas Like if you guys want to do a live stream on this and like do a competition where who can get through the corn maze Quicker or something like that. Let me know dude. I'll give you a shout out if I use your idea, you know And there we go. Okay good enough. We got all we just hit that. Okay Good enough dude. Okay. I really want to go unload this This combine just because I want to drive this semi Guys we definitely gotta get this semi on our farm series check this thing out dude This is sweet It sounds good everything works good interior first person everything look at this. I like it's clean everything works good about it I don't to be honest. I don't really like the exterior. I don't really like the style of it But it's got like a weird like at first. It's like a long front end But then it's like rounded and I don't know if I really like that. I like the old Peterbilt style, but it's pretty cool. I guess What we'll do is we'll go right down here just unload the combine so you can get his next round in putting a couple dead ends in and hey Why not get some money for our corn and lola combine in the table, you know? What side should be right side I'm thinking And we'll get him in oh Boy we gotta turn around a little bit There we go sweet we're alone with corn oh yeah, that's right you gotta play in the corn Dude, how am I gonna do that? Wait, stop stop unloading. Okay, wait, you know what? I may be able to unload on the ground Oh Oh, this is gonna be sweet, man. Okay, we're gonna have a little spot like over here Like here. We'll just put it around this corner where people can just go play in the corn Okay, well yeah, yeah, yeah this will uh, maybe I shouldn't put on my path. We'll put it like right up by the start We'll just unload this on the ground Oh, dude, a lot of you guys who like farm and stuff are probably like squad. That's such a waste of corn, man Okay, we'll just put it right here where kids can play in the corn and stuff like that Oh, sweet Check this out. There we go I don't know if you guys you guys may not know what i'm talking about But you can actually like go play in the corn and stuff Uh, we'll just drop right there. We need a little more to be honest. That's like nothing. It's like nothing Look at that. That's actually not that much at all Okay, we do we have to harvest more of the corn field and stuff, but hey We're off to a good start and this can be the end if you guys did enjoy it Let me know by hitting the like button also comment if you got any good ideas anything like that We got her going we are going who's ready to go through the corn mace? I know I am but anyways guys. Thanks for watching do appreciate it. Hey, I'll see you guys later. Have a good weekend Oh