Pesticide Storage | From the Ground Up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ift3GPZBXyk
Education
 Music Many landowners and homeowners around Wyoming choose chemicals to help them manage weeds and insects around their properties. Chemicals can be used effectively when we manage them effectively. One of the things we want to think about when managing chemicals is storage. The first thing we want to think about is limiting access. We don't want humans and animals to interact with this unless they need to, especially youth, children. We want to keep them away from chemicals. One of the things we really want to focus on when managing chemicals is the label. The label is going to tell us how toxic a chemical is, what the chemical is used for, and how to store it. So the University of Wyoming has a fact sheet online at the University of Wyoming Extension webpage. It has 15 focus points to think about and to utilize when storage chemicals. You know, it talks about storing chemicals by category. We want our insecticides in a different place than our herbicides. We want to certainly keep all chemicals in their original containers. We certainly don't want to ever see them in food containers or anything like that. And the last thing we probably want to think about is not to store our personal protective equipment. Our gloves, our glasses, the things that we're thinking about keeping us safe from chemicals. We want to store them in a different place. If you have more questions, you can certainly look at that fact sheet online. This is Hudson Hill with the University of Wyoming Extension. You're watching From the Ground Up. In the Jacksonville Foundation at Austin Jenna Cleveland Thank you for the resto. There is a check in there. All the different呀intains and places in the country, and platforms to the people in thetown. You're a landowner going nuts and Oculus zoo. It's a new approach. You're a December. There's a kind of residual job that we're making. A new place whereANS will come. Its actually space that we're growing up, It's really great. You're graphing time. It's on your ground up, There's a good idea who confuses If you're growing up.