Challenges hinder growth of organic farming | NJ Business Beat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IiUPHXjS8As
News & Politics
 Here in the Garden State, there's been increased interest in organic farming, but farming is a tough business. I spoke to Devin Cornea, the executive director of the Northeast Organic Farming Association in New Jersey, about the many challenges facing New Jersey's organic farms. Devin, what have we seen in the past couple of years in terms of growth in organic farming here in New Jersey? So we've seen, from my experience, a lot more interest, but we haven't actually seen the growth of enough farms. So just as many farms are opting to cease operation, I feel, as we're actually finding new farmers beginning. And I use vague terms, I feel, I find, because one of the main issues with organic farmers is that they're not tapped into traditional USDA surveys and statistical services. So it's really hard to get a hold on just how many folks are farming in New Jersey and they're farming organically. What is the difficulty in getting a business started? We know, for instance, the costs of farmland continues to rise. Is it that or is it finding and markets or just having enough money to get the business started? Land access is by far the most difficult and pressing issue in New Jersey. We're such a small state. We boast an incredible farmland preservation program, but the property value is constantly rising. They box a lot of farmers out from ever getting a start. It's actually infrastructure, I would say, is the next big hurdle, being able to finance and afford the infrastructure needed. I'm sitting here listening to you and thinking we are in the garden state after all. So should there be some more effort, state policy or something beyond just kind of grassroots support for some of these farmers? If you could change anything on that front, what would it be? Two things. One would be institutional purchasing, trying to make sure that these large institutions that essentially are guaranteed markets for our farmers can be accessed by all farmers in the state, from schools to hospitals. Those are daily dollars being spent on food. And the more we can push that towards local, the better we'll all be. Our communities will be a little more vibrant and a little more healthy. And the second thing that I think would be really important is more support, more financial aid, and more attention given to education, extension resources through our land-grant universities. Organic produce and other goods typically cost more than others. Is there any issue with inflation? Are any customers backing away from organic because of the higher price points? We need to educate the public to reflect the realities of farming, whether it's organic or non-organic. Organic farms typically are less mechanized. They rely more on human labor. They obviously don't have as many tools in their tool belt as non-organic farms, and therefore kind of pigeonholed to producing a certain way with certain costs. Now with such volatility in the world and increasing costs all throughout, you know, farmers' inputs of farmers' labor, that price is now reflected in the market. But the consumer doesn't always make the connection between input costs and, you know, farmers' what they need to actually take home a living. We'll end it there, Devin. Thank you so much for your time. Good luck with things. Thank you.