Stewardship Center (Seals Family Farm) tour
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iivXQ50HPmQ
People & Blogs
 animals and do everything with us as a family or by themselves or what have you. And again, this is the stewardship center model because we're all looking for the education and we all have little bits and pieces of it. And if we compile them together, we all got what we're looking for. So again, with the feeding, I can feed out of this little thing. It's basically scratch grains in a trash can, but this is a hanging device I made out of a five gallon bucket and a trash can lid. And again, you're going to notice that that's, that's basically how we roll. We ain't spending no big money. We using everything from the biscuit. So I developed that construct. I think I kind of seen something like that on YouTube and I'm a YouTube university type of guy. That's where I got everything from. I didn't go to school for this. I didn't get trained. I didn't go to a Habersha, nothing like that. We hear thugging. So I figured this out and I hung it this, this way because now the rodents can't get to it. It doesn't spill out really. And the, the, the chickens can have it accessible for them 24 seven. So that's really important because when my egg production kept going low, I kept trying to integrate more food, more food, more food. And if they don't eat it, what happens? Anybody? Rats, rats, big old rats, New York rats. And, uh, they'll be over here hiding out eating good. And we don't like that. So I had to figure out a way to distribute the food without having that. And it's only because the cats can't really get in here. So they really be in here parlaying and, uh, yeah. So learn that by trial and error. And again, I can give it to my community. So hanging, uh, that might've cost me like $6 to make. And, uh, it's beautiful again from the outside, I can collect the eggs. So I'm, this is actually an old Ikea bookshelf or something. It was on the side of the road. I just grabbed it and I put a little door on it. But from here, if y'all want to come around, you can see, I can grab the eggs. And, uh, again, I don't have to go in at all. Right. Collectively sustainable is a grassroots movement aiming to decentralize the food system, allowing fresh nutrient dense, ethically sourced and trusted goods to be accessible for all using the farm fresh 24 seven app as our digital marketplace. We are collectively building our own sustainable food network. Whatever your reason may be. If you believe that we need to have more control over our food, join the collectively sustainable movement. If you have any handmade, homemade or homegrown products that you would like to sell or barter, download the farm first 24 seven app and list your items there. If you don't have any items to list just yet, you can still join the movement by shopping with people on the app and sharing the app with your social media friends, group, and following.