Fastest First Freshener Goat Birth EVER Filmed!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IklwQUD2vQo
Education
 Just got home from a wonderful Easter dinner with family and Tabitha is in labor. Sweet Tabitha, I heard you giving a good little push. Oh, another one. Yes, and this sweet, this sweet goat staying with her is her mama. She's a very old, yes, I know you want food. Everybody is ready for dinner. It is a late dinner for these guys because we weren't here and we left too early to feed them before we left. So everybody's anxious for their dinner, but Tabitha is having a special time. Not sure how much of this I'll be able to film as it's already pretty dark out here and I've got to figure out. Yes, we've got to figure out some things. So I'm going to get my puppy pads and towels. Oh, how sweet is that? Mama taking care of her baby. Not sure if you can tell, but there are hooves presenting. I'm looking for a nose shortly so that it'll be a good easy birth. And Ruby is trying to help. Mama, let her do her thing. Good girl. Good girl. Because this is active labor, I'm not going to try to move her to the birthing stall until the babies come. I'm just going to make sure they have a nice clean spot to be delivered. Looks like she's going to find that on her own. She knows what to do. Her instincts are good. Even with this being her first freshening. And her sweet old lady mama, Ruby, wants to help. Ruby is retired for quite some time now. She's a lot older than the rest of the goats. And here we go. Looks like my nose is trying to I won't interfere unless I have to if she seems like she's having complications. But she really just started pushing. So, looks like she's going to be able to do this on her own. No problems. I know it's not easy though, is it? Those are our front feet. So, that's good. That's what we like to see. Just got to get that little nose that's pushing. Trying to come through. Once that little nose comes through, it'll be a lot easier. Oh baby. Sweet Tabitha. Another good contraction. She's Good girl. Hardest one is the first one, baby. Gets easier after this. I promise. Oh, there you go. Oh. Perfect. Good job, mama. Good job. That's a big baby. Baby. Ruby, let her clean. I'm going to wipe off the airways and put it up by her face so she can push for the next one because I'm pretty sure she has more than one. Well, she pushed that baby out before I could even get anything underneath her or go get anything to put underneath her and the other one is already coming out too. So, we're just going to grab them up and put them on a puppy pad and let her clean them off as she births. Good girl. Oh, pretty. Oh, that's a pretty. Good job, mama. Good job. Oh, she doesn't like the way that feels hanging from her. Oh, honey. It's okay. Come back. Come back and take care of the baby. It's feeding time and Ryan is bringing in food so she's a little confused about food or baby, food or baby, but I'll take care of it and make sure that it gets the proper care. She'll be, she'll be paying attention in no time. Well, we had a little bit of coaxing. Yeah, a little bit of coaxing but we finally got mama to get the baby's nurse. She's just being a nervous new mom but she's very interested in them and talking to them a lot. So, that's a good sign. Everything should work out just fine but it's really important that that first feeding the first night happens and letting the baby figure it out a little bit is part of that so that we know that the baby's gonna be okay when we walk away but sometimes daddy puts his finger in there and helps to get that initial latch. Oh, it's just satisfying. It's just satisfying. So, the babies have good suck reflex. That's, babies are strong. As long as they get a good nursing tonight and first thing in the morning we'll check back on everything and make sure it's all good. Mama's definitely interested in them. She's sniffing and licking and talking to them. She's just a little unsure about them nursing. She makes her very agitated. You don't like it, huh? Yeah. So, we put her on the milk stand put her head in the headlock gave her a bunch of grain got their bellies full and that's that's all we can do for right now. Yeah. Mama. Oh, you come out from underneath my leg. Go see your mama. And that's the girl and that's the boy. We are making sure they get a good morning nursing in. Everybody stayed okay through the night. This guy's got a long tongue syndrome. Don't know what that is. But he's constantly sticking his tongue out since he was born. and yeah. He was just nursing. Where'd he go? Where'd you go? Don't nurse on your sister's elbow. Stand up. Sweet babies. Well, I may be having to bribe her with food every time they eat but I don't know. I don't know if she's nursing when I'm not here. Their bellies didn't seem as empty this time but I'm coming out here at intervals that I feel like a baby would need to eat. First fresheners are something you have to give a little bit of extra attention to to make sure everything's going smoothly. But at least now she's not kicking at them and they're nursing just fine when I give her a little handful of food. So, this is great. And now 구 stops for kids. And now school Lovely鏡 Hs Tot bird got wet my