HOW TO GROW YOUR OWN ORGANIC VEGETABLES AND HERBS AT HOME PART 1
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilG9bIPoWEI
Science & Technology
 So you need three pieces of wood in here? Yeah, to make one box. Okay. So you need three pieces. Can you open this up there? You want me to talk or are you going to add... Yeah. This is a simple vegetable box built on the cheap. So this is just made from 7 1⁄2 inch wide, I think it is, redwood fence boards. This is just a cedar fence runner, 2x4. Just these fence boards come with a dog ear end. Cut the dog ear end off and you have roughly a 6 foot length. Then I took another board, same thing, and cut it for my ends. I just chose 30 inches wide. A typical vegetable bin in commercial row crop is 40 inches. And they are starting to make better use of ground now with the advent of drip irrigation. So this box is roughly 6 by 30. And you can do it as simple as you want or as sophisticated as you want. The key is when you are trying to start something from seed is you got to keep it wet. Once you get the seed wet, it cannot dry out or you will stop the germination process. And how much do you think that is for the wood? This here, these fence boards are, you know, you can get them between $2 and $4. Redwood, this was about $4 a piece. This cedar 2x4 is like $2 or less for the whole thing for an 8 foot piece, 6 foot piece. Soaker hose, you can use drip, drip, actual drip irrigation. Costs more, there is a lot of pieces. It is not really necessary in a box like this unless you can get your hands on actual drip tape that they use in commercial farming. And they have whole spacing from everywhere from 3 inches to 8 inches so you can get the water right to your plant. But when you are trying to germinate new seedlings, you overseed because there is a percentage of seeds that are not going to make it. You look on the pack of seeds and it will say 85, 85 is pretty common, 85% germination rate. So you are going to put more seeds just because none of them, instead of putting just one seed, you will put more. Yeah, there is a potential that 15% are not going to seed, even if everything is perfect, just because they are not perfect. And then there are other factors outside here that are going to cause some casualties as well. So, I don't know if you can see in the camera, we have some seedlings coming up in this first row. So now what is that wire in there for first? Well, that didn't come with the hose, right? No. This is common soaker hose. I just cut it to length to get one wrap or one line for each plant line. And then since I cut it, you know, it was a 20 foot hose to begin with or something like that. Cut it, just bought a garden hose repair fitting and a cap to cap this hose. And originally I had it just laying directly on the soil and that's fine. But I thought so that it wouldn't interfere with any of the seedlings trying to come through the ground. I just strung wire just off of where the plant line is. You can see here is the sprouts coming through. So this is just an inch off to the side. Hang the hose from there and just kind of suspends it and then it'll just drip. Let me turn the water on a little bit. So where is the seeds already? Where is the little sprouting? Well, here's, if you focus at my fingertip, all along this line, there you see little light green starting to come through. Oh yeah, nice. I think this was spinach in this first row and that's a pretty quick germinator. We have carrots, cilantro, and I forget what the fourth one is in this box. Kale, I think, you know, kale, not kale. No, we were going to save kale for a bigger box. But things, most of these types of vegetables are between seven days to two weeks. And temperatures is a factor there. There's about eight cubic yards of soil in here. And you can see it could hold some more, but it's really not necessary to fill it to the brim. This is plenty. But a little higher doesn't hurt either. The purpose of the box, for one thing, is one of the main reasons is it will warm the soil quicker than it will warm the soil on the flat ground. The sun can hit it from all sides. It's isolated. It's a smaller unit, so it will warm up quicker. That speeds up germination, helps them get through the cold nights. It's like a moisture. Yeah. So, the wire, you just add it there. You attach it with a nail, right? Yeah, I just use some roofing nails on the ends because they have a wider head and that will act as the anchor. There's nothing fancy. I just cut some of the... So, I just twisted the end around. Put some tension on it. It didn't have to be over tight. You can use anything you want. If you have little ties like for clothes and bags in the grocery store, those kind of twist ties, that's fine. I just cut some of the same wire to make my hanger there. So, you had... Before you had it right on top of the soil, now you lift it up. So, it could... For what reason? Oh, just to... Just in case the hose is laying on a seedling, it could... Yeah. You know, it could break the head of the... To protect it. Of the little seedling as it's trying to come through the ground. But, they're actually stronger than you think. I mean, they can push a dirt clot out of their way sometimes. Yeah. When they're trying to get to the sun, they can actually push a dirt clot out of their way. Of course, there is a point where they will just... So, the reason they sprout is because they're looking for light, right? For the sun. Yes, exactly. Very interesting. Yeah. What about how much would the whole bag, would the soil... Is... Would cost them if they wanted to do it? To do one box like this is probably... The wood. You got to buy a soaker hose. A spool of wire. A box of nails. You know, fifty, sixty dollars. That's not bad. So, and you... The only reason I chose redwood is it stands up to being wet better. Same with this cedar fence post. They can handle moisture. I mean, that's what they're made for is why they use it for fencing. So, they're more like water resistant. I mean, weather resistant, right? Yeah. Yeah. They don't... They are slow to rot from contact with the water. What about the soil now? You can buy organic soil, right? This is the next bag you're going to do? Yeah. There's... There's... These are 1.5, so one and a half cubic feet, bags of organic garden soil. You don't have to use that. But, uh... Any good... It needs to be a top soil, not... Not a soil for, uh... House plants. So, it needs to have a little more, uh... It says... It says flower and herb. So, that's what you need, right? Flower and herbs, right here. So, how many bags? Well, these are 1.5 cubic feet. So, we got 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. 6 of them. This is probably a little more than we need, but... We didn't get this first box very full, either. And then, uh... Here's our 3 fence boards. You can see... The dog... Dog ear, we'll just cut that off to get a nice square in. And that... That was the length I used. To begin with. Okay. And then you take one and cut it in half, right? For the ends? For the... Yeah. To create... To create the end. Uh... Cut it in half. Cut it... Whatever you... You decide. How many rows you want to put in there. And you need to look at what you're growing to determine how much width you need. Uh... Look on the packet of your seeds, if you don't know, and what the... What the suggested row spacing is. So, you... Some things like to be crowded, and other things, they need some room to breed. So, this right here... This is... I'm talking organic. Organic soil and the wood, it would be about 60. If they want to start it, right? Yeah. Yeah. The organic soil is a little bit more money. And what... On this next box, what I plan to do is put food waste. You know, the husk of avocados, banana peels, just... You know, all that kind of food waste you have from preparing meals. Yeah. I'm gonna actually put it in the bottom of the box before we put the soil in. Okay. And that... As that decomposes, you know, that's gonna release nitrogen and other minerals into the soil. And... So, we're gonna do it. We're gonna show them how to do the bags. You're gonna put it... Cut it, put it together, and then add the... Um... Leftover... Leftover, right? Yeah. From the juicing and... Food waste. Yeah, from juicing. Yeah, from juicing. All that pulp that's left. We're gonna... Food scraps. And that's... What is that called? Well, it... It's almost like composting, but... Oh, compost. Okay, like compost. That's what you're gonna do. Campos, which is very good. Uh... It's like a fertilizer. It works as a fertilizer. Yeah. Yeah. When the food waste decomposes, it's releasing nitrogen and other minerals to the soil. So it's very, very important. You use that instead of fertilizers. And so, we'll come back. I feel like that guy from California, what's the name? Uh... Heel Houser. Heel Houser. We'll come back. And we'll show you how to put it together. And I'll come back and show you how these seedlings are doing. Okay? This is my dog, bothering the neighbors. Jen!