Guide to the Airship Adventures Quest! | Stormfall Saga Of Survival Gameplay (Ep 99)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iM2D8tDv-Pc
Gaming
 Hey Exiles, how we doing? Mr. A2G back again playing some more Saga of Survival. Alright, I'm gonna do something a little bit different today. I want to explain as best as I can about the new Adventurer's Quest that's come through. So we only got a little bit about it in the patch notes saying that you know every so often on your daily rewards you've got the ability to claim for you know this one here so the Adventurer airship. Basically it's a limited time zone so we've only got a certain amount of time to go into the zone, see what it's all about, fulfill the quest and then obviously move on claim the rewards all that sort of stuff. Then we've got another one here a little bit further down on day 7 on my end here. Whether that matches up with you guys or it's a little bit indifferent your mileage may differ to mine. So I've already claimed for it and we're gonna go ahead and activate that and we're gonna get right into it and we'll see what it's all about. I'll take you through it and hopefully we'll get it wrapped up pretty soon. Now before you guys go ahead and jump on to the overworld there to see where it is you need to claim for it. So by doing that you need to go into your vault, scroll down until... I've got a lot of stuff in here by the way... until you actually find it. So you'll find it in a moment's time. There we go. So you've got the airship adventure here. So you just want to go ahead and claim and let's see if that pops up in our inventory or does it pop up on the map. Let's find out. Okay so it's there. So we go use. Limited time adventure has begun. So I'm assuming that might be the same thing for the for the next adventure quest as well. But for now we'll just roll with this adventure quest and see what this one's all about. It should populate on our overworld map. There we go. So a limited time and adventure. A strange thing... sorry a strange thing came down from the sky and airship. Go help the pilot. Well let's go ahead and do that. So he's just situated over here. And we'll run in. We'll see what it's all about. So it's not a particularly too difficult of a zone. So one and a half skulls. What I've got here is completely overpowered for the job you know at hand. I could even just use my pyro ring that I've got stored here. I've brought an axe and a pickaxe just in case if there's anything that I need to harvest over there and see what we can get. The loot. Have a look at the loot table there. It didn't appear that there was too much out of that. So I think there was just a little bit of basic resources. So we'll just quickly go ahead and have a look at that if I can ever so slightly tap on it. So possible loot. We've got a purple star skillet. Some oil. The amulet. The necklace. Some books there. Oak plank. Belts. And blessed water. So we'll just jump back right in. I should have done that first. My bad guys. Alright guys. Make sure you guys like the video if you did enjoy this one here. And go ahead and do the usual things. Comment down below. Hit the like button. Subscribe. All that sort of good stuff. Oh yeah. You. Just the sort of person I need. My ship ran into some trouble. No sooner did I bring her to rest. Did goblins steal my supplies and escape to the swamp. Bring back my things and I'll give you my lucky skillet. What do you say? So we've got to find these items throughout the zone. And we've got a lever. Okay. So we might have to find it on one of the goblins there maybe. Or something in a chest or something or other. But to be perfectly honest. All these little materials here. I'm hoping we'll probably find it all in the zone. If not. I know I've got it everywhere. So we'll go ahead and suss it all out here. So we'll probably just grab some wood as well while we're doing our little questing. If it wants to chop down. There we go. So that's the sixth pine log. There we go. There you go. So just thought I'll let you know. Add a courtesy. I think at the time of this video I should be five subscribers away from hitting my first a thousand subs. So it is it's been a massive milestone that I've been wanting to achieve for such a long time. And we are so close. Yeah. Look I'm not going to ask for subscribers just for the sake of you know. If you guys are doing it to get me there. Look I want to rather earn it and do it the right way. If you guys do enjoy my content and you don't want to miss out on any future videos then please hit that sub button. If not that's all good. Just hit the like button if you enjoyed it. You know just get it up the recommended page. That's all I asked for on that one there. Otherwise you know what. Just enjoy the videos guys. Hear my lovely voice. All that sort of good stuff. All right. So with that out of the way I'm going to keep going. So we'll grab some of this. And how much wood did we have? We have 18. So I need a little bit more wood. So I'll just grab one of that. And let's see what this area has. We've got a couple of first frogs. And does that? No it does not. Okay. Take out the goblin. Completed a quest. Very good. Ooh. Got the little scroll there. Okay. We'll stuff that out in a sec. And what's out of here? Anything interesting? I'll take that. Ooh. Look at that. Got the berry tea. Thank you game. If you can allow me to actually tap on things. That'd be great. All right. What have we got? What have we got? Anything up here? I don't think so. We'll quickly just scan the area around. And anything of interest? Not so much. I'll just grab that while we're at it. Anything down this way? Nope. Dead end. So it doesn't look to be a particularly massive map. We'll just take out these guys. Ooh. Okay. So these guys are coming up with swamp. Okay. Swamp map section. Town piece. Used to navigate to the swamp. Okay. So it looks like they might have. There might be a few that we need to check out. So a few little map coordinates. Once we've got the required amount. I'm assuming it's going to piece together. And we can jump into the swamp area. And hopefully we'll be able to find the lever. I take it in this situation. I think that's probably going to be what we're needing to look for. I'm not going to worry about the clay at this point. I've got so much clay now. Ever since this new update that's dropped. I've got so much clay. I'm going to have a clay bar for days. That's basically what I'm saying. I'm not going to need to, you know, hunt certain zones or anything like that. It's one problem. Hey, you're a little bit different. And why didn't I kill you in the first place? Take all that. And what have we got here? Nothing there. Nothing there. I wonder if that's enough. I wonder if that is enough. Well, that's a point of interest by the looks of things. I just want to see. Okay, I did kill everything there. Okay. Yeah, okay. So I've got all three. Claim. Nice. Nice. And assuming it's going to take us to the swamp, which it does. Nice and easy. There we go. And that will probably take us back to where we came from. Let's take out these guys. I hate these things. They put your curse points so high up. Because now if you look at the left hand part of the screen where my avatar is, you'll notice that I've got curse points times three. So you just want to be careful with that. And I'll just grab all of this. So this is, um, so little drop, um, you know, little chests and things like that. Kind of like in the, the two skull zones that you'll find. So you might get like little gifts and things like that. Raw materials, whatever it might be. So. All right. Let's see what we've got out of this one. Privets. Get rid of that mosquito bed. And there's another one there. I'm just going to go ahead and hit it. I'm, it's annoying that they don't come up actually on the map. So you can't actually see them. But I guess that's the whole point of it. You know, you've got to be careful. You know, have your wits about you. Okay. There's that hotbed. Take that out. Oops. No, no, no. Grab the barrel. We'll see what's in the barrel here. And hopefully we might find what we're looking for. I'll take those scrolls. What I might actually do. Because I did bring the horse today. Let's grab that. And that. And all the other bits and pieces that I may not need. Probably that. That. And there's that. And you know what? I probably don't even need that today. Because I want to grab that and that. Perfect. Get that yellow spider. Didn't give me anything. Thank you very much. Did you give me something? Nope. Okay. All right. So I'm just going to do a quick scan. There we go. Something I didn't want to happen. It happened. That is totally fine. So I'll just grab one of those. And we are back. Grab some of that. Okay. So we've got a mixture of frogs in here. So you've got the curse frog. Dark frog. Okay. Take out you. Take out you. Definitely. Okay. I think I've got more than enough cheesecloths there. So I don't think I need any more. But anyway. Okay. Let's see what's coming out of here. Grab some of that. I'll take that. Definitely take that. Okay. Let's take that. And let's do ewe. And ewe as well. And there's no rope. Usually you guys drop rope. Okay. Well that's back to where we came from. There was a little section there I didn't cover. So we'll go through there now. And I didn't see that. Okay. So a bit of charcoal. Goblin leader. Do you have my leather? Uh, lever. Lever. I don't know why I said leather. Anyway. It's too early in the morning my time here guys. Yeah. Take the nails. I do need the nails actually. And one more job. There we go. Take that here. And I think that did say swamp goblin. It did. Okay. So hopefully. Okay. I think I've noticed that in the update. Let me know if you guys did. Where your character didn't actually. You didn't see the animation. Uh, to him actually attacking. But yet you actually see. The enemy health bar reduced. Yeah. Let me know if you'd actually seen that. Or if you've experienced that. Okay. We'll see. Now he's doing it. Actually another thing to note as well. Just using my crossbow. I feel that it's a lot slower. Than, um. In the previous, uh, update. Ooh. Dark swamp goblin. Okay. You're gonna have to have what I need. Let's just take out that hotbed. Let's take out the other hotbed. I just want to take that out. Yeah. So I think. The time delay. The delay is a lot more. On the crossbow. Than it was in the previous update. I don't know if it's just me. I don't know if you guys have experienced that too. I want you to let me know in the comments down below. Yes. Okay. Cool. So you've got what I need. I don't need that. I'm gonna grab that. I don't need any of that. I'll just leave that behind. Loot up the chest. And I think that's probably gonna go ahead and call it, I guess. We'll see. Well, you know. I'll see what else is needed. I think we need some raw meat. Which I didn't get from this zone. So I know I've got that at home. Which is not a problem at all. Um. Ooh. Okay. Um. Do, do, do. What do I give up? Yeah. I guess I'll use that. Take that. Use that. And take that. There we go. And we did loot that, didn't we? Yeah, we did. Okay. So I think that's it. We'll go suss out now. The rest of everything. Actually, I think I, I think I do definitely need some meat. So let's, let's quickly go back home. I'll grab the meat. So I think that's all I need. And we'll, um, yeah. We'll finish off this quest for the, um, for today's video. Okay. Okay. So I just had a bit of coffee. And let's jump back in. There we go. And, you know, for now, I just might dump some of that over here and there. And let's just go with meat. I think that's it. Honestly, I think that is. But we'll have a look. Don't want to make a, you know, complete round trip for everything. So, it's a good little quest. I mean, you know, just something to break up, uh, the norm, the mold, if you will, gives you something, uh, to do. And you've got a decent amount of time. So I don't see why not that you guys couldn't complete it. Um, you should be able to, it's, it appears very easy. I don't know what it's going to be for the next, um, for the next mission, um, that we'll have, but we'll obviously work it out when the time comes. All right. So let's go ahead and claim everything. So we need that, that, that, that, that, and that claim. That's it. That's it. So he's not going to, so we can't interact with him anymore. Um, as I said, we've only got a day, a little bit over a day for that to, um, uh, for this zone to leave, but let's go ahead and check out the, the skillet pan. I'm going to swap them over. So we have 20 attack damage, 16 wall, uh, 32 awareness, 1.2, uh, sorry. Um, yeah. And then over 500, uh, hit points on it, which is not bad. You know what? I think this would probably be arguably a decent, um, uh, melee weapon just for, you know, one to two skull zones. If you really wanted to use it and you don't want to use any decent weapons or anything like that. I think this would be your go-to. Um, if you want to sort of, you know, keep it and retain it, you probably just want to invest in some, uh, repair hammers just to get it back up to scratch. That's obviously up to you guys, but that's what I'm thinking about that. It's probably going to be a decent handler for, um, for those type of zones. But I think we're going to go ahead and leave it today. It's just a really quick one. Just wanted to give you a quick overview on how that works. And, um, yeah, share some light because unfortunately in the patch notes, the developers didn't really elaborate on it. So I figured, you know what, let's drop this in and hopefully you guys enjoyed. Anyway, if you guys are new, if you guys enjoyed the content, if you want to watch more, if you want to keep up to date, go ahead and hit that subscribe button along with that notification bell so you don't miss on any future videos like and comment as always guys. All right. Take it easy. Catch you next time.