15 MOST PROFITABLE Crops For Small Farms & Market Gardens
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IM5banj3q4s
Education
 All right guys, for all these years people have been asking, this is the video that we're finally doing, 15 crops that are the best sellers in the market garden. Okay, so these are crops that I've based on almost 20 years of experience here at the Gralinette and at FQT farms. We're breaking down all these crops from 15 to 1 and so number one is the crop that I sell the most at farmers market on both farms, number two, number three, number four, but what we're trying to do in this video also is explaining why this crop is there. The metric that I'm using to determine these crops is how popular that crop is. You know, popularity drives sales, so that's a first metric, really easy to understand but really important. Number two is seasonality. How long can I grow that crop or how can I grow it early enough or late enough in specialty moments? So that's number two. Number three is quick turnovers. Because you can grow with quick turnovers, we can grow a lot of these crops, that factors in big time. And number four is customer loyalties. That's the least important of the four but it's still there. Some of these crops we would grow because people love them and they're people's pleaser and they fill in the booth at farmers market. Okay, so that's the metric. If you want to learn more about all these crops, you can check out eight most profitable field crops. This is an online course that we teach at the Market Gardener Institute. You'll have all of these crops with the different crop itineraries from seed to harvest. All the details are there. If you're interested in the greenhouse crops, you can also check our class, Mastering Greenhouse Growing Practices. Same thing, from seed to harvest, all the steps to grow amazing, amazing crop. So without further ado, let's start at number 15. Lettuce heads. So lettuce heads are one of these crops. They're not the best sellers. People buy them. They buy them every week. And the trick with this crop is to have, first of all, a great diversity. You want to have different colors, different shapes, bid, green leaves, oak leaves, all these different varieties that are like looking good at the booth. That's number one. And when you have that diversity, it just creates a lot of a nice image, a nice ambiance. Just you bring these colors to market and it's fresh. So these are young lettuce that we transplanted some weeks ago. These are like from three to four dollars a head. So if you calculate the revenue per bed, it's huge. The trick with lettuce heads is to have constant supply from week one to the last week that you're at farmer's market or at your CSA. So that could be 25, 30, 35, 40, 45 weeks of constant supply. Every week you need to have 200, 300 salad heads that are ready to go for market. Prime stuff. So the trick to that is to have a bulletproof planting schedule that mixes different variety with different DTMs, days to maturity. And that you have a planting program where you're always planting new ones every week or every other week with different DTMs. And again, it's a feast for the eyes at farmer's market. And it's this constant crop that most customers will always buy one or two salad heads at your booth. So it's a winner in that way. 14, field peppers. Field peppers are an absolute powerhouse for late cash flow in the season. They take a long time to establish, but once they'd start giving, they generate so much value in these few weeks at farmer's market or through your CSA that you have them. Each plant of pepper will give you five to six to seven really nice peppers that you can sell from three to five dollars each. So it's really easy to understand how peppers are a high value ticket. The trick with peppers is first of all to have nice diversity. You want to have all these different shapes, colors, all mixed or not mixed depending. But again, at the booth when you're selling them, people will be attracted to these colors and to this variety that's so unique to your stall. So that's really key. Also, you want to be growing peppers on the smaller sides of things. You know, big peppers, they don't sell as much. People will complain if they take a big pepper, you put it on the scale and it's one pepper, five dollars, they'll complain. If it's two smaller peppers for six dollars, they won't complain. So smaller varieties, smaller size, but color and diversity is really is a game changer. The next important thing about peppers is to start them in the right way. And that makes the whole difference. You want to start them indoor. You're transplanting plants that are really, really up and kicking. You want to make sure that from the greenhouse, the nursery to the field, not a step is skipped. You want to be perfect in all the different steps, making sure that the plant really kicks in in a boost. And then you're on your way when you trace them and you set up the right way. You're on your way to abundance of harvest down the road. Number 13 is field tomatoes. Okay, year in year out, we have bumper crops of heirloom field tomatoes that are a hit at farmers market. Field tomatoes like pepper is a plant that you start really early, you put a lot of effort into it, and eventually you just go to the bank. Field tomatoes would be much higher on our list if it wasn't for the short time that we have these tomatoes. We're talking about early September for about six to seven weeks max. We have these tomatoes. They're a hit at farmers market, but it's also the time of year where all the other growers have their tomatoes. So they're not as lucrative as greenhouse tomatoes, which are much higher down the list. Trick for field tomatoes is like peppers. You want to make sure that you start them exactly the best way possible. So you want to start with really, really nice plants. You want to bury them as deep as you can. So we'll bury them all the way to the first true leaf. And we will trace them using the Florida weave system. We're going to prune them a few times, not too much, and then they're on their own. So the trick with field tomatoes is to invest a lot on the from the start, you know, investing in good compost, putting landscape fabric that's non-negotiable because it conserves the moisture. And it also allows the plant to grow without any disease because rain droplets don't fall onto the soil, which goes to the leaf. The weed, the landscape fabric eliminates that problem and it eliminates weeds. So the setup is really important. And then you want to invest as less time as you can until the harvest, which is really where you get all your reward. Number 12, spinach. Spinach is quite unusual. People wouldn't think that it's on the list, but it is there. Every year we sell a lot of spinach. At the end of the season, when we do the accounting, we're always surprised that spinach is there, but it's not that surprisable because spinach is a workhorse. It's one of these crops where you, it doesn't need to be flashy. It just needs to be there. It's there really early spring all the way up to summer, and it gets back popular again from fall all the way up to the next summer. So spinach, it's one of these crops that's there because we can grow it almost seven to eight months out of the year. It's definitely the winter workhorse. In the winter, it's our number one crop. It's the easiest crop to grow in the winter. And that's the time of year where people really appreciate the quality, the crunchiness, the sugar. It's like a different crop altogether in the winter. So that makes up the list because we grow it year round in the winter, but also early spring and late fall. It's also a crop that people like and appreciate at farmers markets. So you want to have it that time. A few tips about spinach. We transplant our spinach, which is something that people might think it's crazy because it's a lot of work, but to get the perfect density and to get like crops that are really well established, well rooted, we'll be able to harvest a few leaves every week and really pick and pick and pick and pick. That's really the trick to have the good varieties at the right timing for spring, for summer, because you can also grow spinach in the summer, but you definitely need to have summer varieties. It's not the best time, but it's possible. But spring and fall and winter adapt the cultivars to that seasonality. You can check out our blog at the Market Gardener Institute to know which cultivar we use, but it's definitely a game changer for year round growing. Spinach makes the list at number 12. Number 11 is beets. Fresh beets that we call the sleepy hit because it quietly moves volumes week after week after week until at the end of the year we do the accounting and we realize that it's always right up there in our best sellers. We sell them with their tops bunched, different colors, different cultivars. We have them from early markets all the way to the last few markets. Week after week we have them bunched. Again, this crop is just fantastic. There's a lot of demand for it. It's surprising really. We don't think about beets, but people love beets and they love them when they're the right size and the right color. One other trick to always get super good fresh beets is to transplant them. This is how we get these perfect densities is we will grow them in cells and we will transplant them. It's a lot of work, but that guarantees you to have this perfect density evenly spread so that we don't get too many diseases on the leaves. There's a few tricks also about how to make sure that you don't get circosporose on the leaves, but once you've managed to deal with that and then you have a really good planting program, man beets, they make a lot of money in the market garden and it makes the list at number 11. With the soil. Number 10, radishes. Radishes, radishes, radishes. It might be surprising for some people to see that radishes make the top 10 list, but early spring really it's one of these crops that you can't grow enough of because people are desperate for fresh food and radishes comes in early. It's this crop that grows in less than 30 days, about 20 days, 25 days and then you bring these fresh radishes, different size, different colors, all bunched together and you can get a really good premium price for a nice little bunch of radishes, especially my favorite cultivar which is the French one. These are always a hit at farmers market, but again the thing with radishes it's an easy crop, it's really fast to establish. When you have a planting schedule that's week after week after week, then you make sure that the first eight weeks at farmers market you have piles of radishes, you'll make a lot of money because radishes in the spring is king, king, king, king. So it's one of these crops, easy to grow, we direct seed these crops, they're densely seeded, we use the Jang seeder, it singulates the seeds really well and there's not much to say about it, it's just one of these crops that you just need to think about planting a lot of it and having as many successions as possible so that you have fresh radishes for the first few weeks at farmers market, that's really when you'll make your money. Different insects can be a problem, cover them with insect netics or row covers, besides that if they're well watered, if they're outside for early summer and planted in tunnels early spring, it's an easy crop to grow. Guys it's me again just letting you know that we are having a free workshop on these successful crops, we're going to dig deeper and we'll have people coming in, all the information is on the link below, if you're interested in learning more, if you want to improve your game, just check out this course, it's there for you and it's free, so I'll see you there. Number nine is arugula. Arugula or roquette we say here in French makes the list because like radishes, it's one of these crops that early spring you can grow a lot of it really fast and bringing at farmers market when there's not that many growers that have it. If you're doing restaurant sales it's a home run and it's one of these crops that it's like it's spring spring spring spring spring just like radishes but then unlike radishes you can grow in the fall and you can grow it year round in the winter. It's a really good winter crop, it grows really easily, you can do multi-cuts, harvest it for many many many months and that's how it catches up with radishes in the list because we grow a lot of it in the spring but unlike radishes which sell out only in the spring that crop you can also grow in the tail head of the winter and fall months. Arugula not complicated, we seeded 12 rows on a 30 inch bed, we definitely need to cover it for insect control, you want to make sure that you're growing your arugula without any flea beetles, that's really the trick but once you've mastered how to do this and it's definitely possible and you have a super high quality product you'll sell a lot of it. Arugula makes the top 10 list and it's actually one of my favorite crop to grow. Number eight, carrots. Fresh carrots pile high and watch them fly. Carrots at farmers market they're a favorite and honestly friends if you have fresh carrots week after week after week you'll sell them without even thinking about it. The trick with carrots is to have constant supply and they need to be fresh so you'll sell them with their tops that really marks the difference between carrots that are so-so and carrots that are amazing from the garden. So we sell them with their tops and then we need to have different succession plantings always delivering fresh carrots to our loyal customers. We'll have 12 to 15 plantings in a year staggered so that we're always harvesting fresh. We seed them at a really high density, five, six rows per bed, per 30 inch bed and we use cultivars that are you know from the French heritage. The nante is really tasty, crunchy, tasteful. Again carrots it's one of these crops that people taste and they're like carrots carrots carrots they love them. The trick is also to grow them without weeds. Okay so that's really where the pros can really hit it. We use flame weeding in pre-emergence to deliver to make sure that we're always triggering weed growth and then burning them while the carrots are just ready to emerge and that's how we do all of our seedlings making sure that we're never pulling weeds with our hands in the carrot beds. They're always clean because we use the right methodology and with the right methodology you diminish the workload of growing these carrots. But again having them with constant supply pile high and watch them fly. Number seven, huckarii turnip. Huckarii turnips are a best seller at farmers market because once people taste them raw like this they're immediately hooked. These turnips are nothing like regular turnips. They're fresh salad turnips and people just love them fresh. I don't know to how many thousands of customers I've showed huckarii turnips and to how many growers that have started growing huckarii turnips and have made them so popular at farmers market. It's a royalty crop to grow because it's a fan favorite. People once they taste it again they love them and the trick with huckarii with turnips is to grow first of all this variety huckarii and then secondly you need to make sure that you're growing to be not too big about the size of a golf ball a bit bigger and then having consistent constant supply in the spring when you're able to make a lot of money before everything's there at farmers market. You can load up the booth with piles of these turnips and in the fall and in the winter. It's also a good winter crop because you can sell them with their tops semi off like this and then chefs people will buy them. They're a good success later on into the season. Huckarii turnip, we direct seed them. They're densely seeded. The trick is to protect them again from flea beetle. Make sure that they're well watered. Make sure that they're not too big, not too small and once you've mastered the different techniques to avoid pests, these crops they're reliable, quick to grow, quick turnover and they're a big part of our success at the farm because again we're the only ones selling these. You can't find them at supermarkets, you can't find them in the stores. People will drive, make a detour to our booths, to our kiosks because they're hooked on the beautiful taste of these amazing turnips. Okay we're getting close to the top five but number six might surprise you but on our list year in year out is greenhouse string beans. Beans are probably not a crop that some growers are familiar with growing in greenhouses but because we're growing them in greenhouses these are indeterminate plants they'll grow to be so high they'll give for so many so many so many weeks and we have two to three different successions in a year we grow them about 10 months out of the year. It's a cornerstone as a supply that we have for the restaurants, the chefs and the grocery stores because we can consistently bring these french filet type really nice beans for such a long period in the year. The money per plant is really high on beans and the demand for wholesale is huge and so it's one of these crops that we do have at farmers market we do put some in our CSA but the trick with these is that we're able to grow them for a long period of time stringing them over five six seven eight feet high strings harvesting them with both of our hands that's really the trick here you need to be really efficient in your harvesting but we are pumping out huge quantity of fresh beans week in week out for such a long period of time that's how it makes its money and it does make a lot of money because it's almost close to being top five on our list. So top five crops and we start at number five with another greenhouse crop and we're talking about greenhouse cucumbers check it out okay so greenhouse cucumbers growing cucumbers in the greenhouse and tracing them using the umbrella tracing system that we've discovered and used for so many years now we're able to harvest weeks and weeks and weeks and weeks of really nice cucumbers we grow the longer english ones but we also grow the sweet lebanese ones and we sell a lot of them at farmers market the trick we all know that cucumbers are popular but the trick is to be able to grow them for such a long period of time and that's where greenhouses make a big difference we're able to ventilate for to avoid excess heat we're able to grow them with heat when we need it we have nets insect nets in in the in the greenhouse so that we can avoid pests like the cucumber beetle we're controlling the environment and we're tracing these crops to to be super productive and the trick is to have different successions through the year which is also something that we do so all in all it's a crop where you learn the techniques but once you've mastered how to grow them it's gonna keep giving week after week after week it makes the top five list on our list number four is garlic garlic is the ultimate money in the bank crop because it's one crop that once you've planted there's almost zero to no work until you harvest it and cure it and once that's done correctly you can keep the harvest for two three four five six months and sell it off every week when you need it you can sell off a big chunk of it to restaurants to the grocery store or you can come in week after week and just steadily move your garlic little by little always getting premium price for it fresh garlic is the best we grow hardneck garlic for its flavor we have one favorite cultivar you can check out the blog post to see which cultivar that is and also because of the shell life of hardneck garlic really easy to grow we plant it in the fall we do we front load the whole beds with good compost and with the right spacing and with the right cultivars and making sure that your seeds don't have any disease which is the most important thing about garlic and we plant a lot of it and we just watch it grow and then at one point we have the ultimate pro chip pro tip of how to harvest it and that pro tip friends is to have a harvest party we have a party every year when it's time to harvest the garlic and we bring a lot of people to the farm we have music we have good time but all these hands are picking the garlic cutting the leaves curing it making it ready for how we're going to cure it for the long run and i almost forgot there's a second harvest to it which is the scape which is somewhat of a gourmet item that we bring at farmers market early spring when our boots need that diversity the scapes are there they're beautiful they're colorful they're wicked they're they're just they attract the eye and they attract the curious so it's another part of how this crop generates so much income year in year out in the market garden number three making the top three list i'm wondering if you guys guessed what one two and three are at this point but number three is a best seller every week that we have them at farmers market and it's cherry tomatoes cherry tomatoes having a diverse array of different cherry tomatoes brown greenish yellow obviously red but all this diversity these colors they just attract the eye and for some reason people buy cherry tomatoes and they don't look at the price i don't understand why but they'll just rack them up and they'll put their 20 dollars and they don't mind because they they think it's beautiful and it's tasteful and i guess they know how to make salads with them but for us at farmers market like the trick is to have them as early as possible that's why we grow our cherry tomatoes inside a greenhouse and we grow indeterminate plants that will grow to be 10 20 feet high we grow them on a string we circle the plant week in week out we cut the suckers out and we lower and lean our plants so these are undeterminate tomato plants and we use different varieties again that are made for greenhouse growing and that offers superior quality of taste the trick with this crop is to grow it inside a greenhouse and to master all the different techniques that allows you to harvest a bountiful amount of these money-making little dimes every week number two on the list mesclun salad mix which is nothing else than having all these different sweet variety of lettuce heads when they're bite-sized small want to have leaves that are the size the palm of your hand different shape different color all mixed together put into a bubbler mixing it bagging them and selling them wholesale semi-wholesale selling them at farmers market selling them at your csa salad mix is how i've made i i don't want to say my fortune because that's not true but i've made my name we were the first one to bring salad mix fresh salad mix twice a week at our local grocery store and for 20 years people have known us for this quality of the salad mix that we bring and for the fact that they just they take the mix pre-washed and put them in their bowl and it's ready to go it's always fresh it's always beautiful it's always amazing over the course of my farming career i've tried all the different styles of growing salad mix and now i can honestly say the best way to do it is to transplant these heads of salinovas and other cultivars that are the same these have been hybridized to always grow small leaves and so you can cut it cut them once cut them twice cut them three times from a transplant and you have perfect density on the bed you'll want to use landscape fabric because you want to make sure that there's no soil in the mix there's no rocks and because you don't need to weed them you don't need to cultivate you only need a good harvesting knife and a good bubbler or a good system to make sure that it's perfectly clean you bag them keep the air in the bag that's the way to do it there's a process there's an optimal way to wash and dry and clean salad mix once you've nailed that it's repeat business you can really make a good killing growing salad mix perhaps they'll call you the salad king or salad queen of where you are number one on our list that's the crop that year in year out when you look at the bottom line of the sales on the farm the crop that sold the most of is always the same and it's greenhouse slicer tomatoes big juicy tomatoes that we sell at farmers market and that we sell at different restaurants but we have them really early in the spring first of june we have tomatoes on our booth and we have a lot of them they're not like field tomatoes these tomatoes there's a lot of energy there's a lot of technique and effort that goes into growing them these are all cultivars that are heirloom type they look like heirloom they taste great but they're indeterminate plants that we grow inside a greenhouse that we heat we cool we ventilate and we grow them on two heads we lower and lean them just like we do with the cherry tomatoes and every week we'll come we'll circle the plant around the string then we'll lower and lean them and we'll harvest them over many many many many many months it's a lot of work to grow tomatoes like this but if you're in the market gardening business and you want to make money in farming this crop you need to master you need to learn how to do it because if you're the first at market with these kind of tomatoes you'll make a killing just like we do and just like we've been doing for all these years also if you want to keep learning about these crops and how we grow them i'm inviting you to a free workshop online all the information is on the link below make sure to register you also get a discount on some of our classes at the market gardener institute namely eight most profitable field crop check it out learning is power learning how to do this is how we're able to make a good smart living farming ecologically on small acreage with hand tools it's all there friends it's all there for you to learn i'm all here to share what i know to help you on your farming journey this is it for this week i hope you enjoyed this i sure did i'll see you next time jm out