Pond Building
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=inHRltqNWtk
Education
 Hi my name is Alan Patilla. I'm your fisheries and aquaculture extension specialist at Iowa State University. I'm here to talk to you today about siting and building a quality pond. As you can see here we're in a watershed. This is the future site of a pond and some things that you need to consider whenever building your pond is the amount of soil that you're going to have to move because that's the major expense component of building a pond as well as the volume of water that you want to try to hold in there. Now we recommend that your ponds be at least eight feet deep. Fifteen feet is probably better. This is to prevent winter kills. You're going to want to make sure that your your dam is going to have a lot of good clay in there. Very little sand so that it compacts very well and holds water. You're also going to want to check out the watershed and find natural pinch points. So right here we have three ridges coming together and we're going to take the shortest distance across there to hold the most water for the least amount of soil moved. Other things that you want to take into consideration is what's in your watershed. So as you can see here we're in a prairie. This is going to do a really good job of stopping soil sediments from coming in as well as reducing nutrient loads so you don't have the aquatic plant problems. Another thing you want to consider is the construction, the shape of that dam so you want to have a three to one slope. In other words for every one foot of rise you want to have three foot of run. That's going to establish some aquatic plants on the edge but by the time you get about 10 feet offshore you're going to be at a depth where you're low enough to where you're not promoting aquatic plants to grow. Other things you can see here we have trees in the watershed and we can cut those trees off and create really good fish habitat and that's going to congregate those fish in that area. So other questions that you might have you can contact me. Again my name is Alan Patillo. I'm your fisheries and aquaculture extension specialist. Thanks and good luck out there.