Farm Basics-Rhizobia Bacteria #629 (From Ag PhD Show #629 4/25/10)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iOoph66CjxA
Education
 This week's Farm Basics is brought to you by Satshot.com. Satellites aren't just for NASA anymore. Use the power of satellite imagery to create variable rate management zones in your fields. To reduce input costs and increase yields on your farm, go to Satshot.com. I love talking about bacteria, Brian. It's one of the best things about crop production. Well, as I seem to recall, I used to grow a lot of molds and fungi in the refrigerator growing. That was before I got married, Brian. Now my wife would never allow that. But one place where bacteria use is encouraged is on our soybean crop. You have to use some inoculant out there, and what inoculant is, is it's Rhizobia bacteria. It's kind of a strange thing. So if you're a non-farmer, you might wonder, what in the world are these guys talking about? Well, there's actually a beneficial bacteria. It's called this Rhizobia bacteria, like Darren said. And what it does is it pulls nitrogen out of the air and converts it into a form the plant can use. Now don't think that the bacteria are just doing this for fun because they love soybean plants. They're doing it because the soybean plants actually feed the bacteria. Soybean roots will excrete sugars into the soil. The bacteria love to eat those sugars. And in exchange, the bacteria convert that nitrogen for the plant. That's called a symbiotic relationship. And the other thing that I really like about this is Rhizobia bacteria is cheap and it works really well. It only costs typically a buck or two, depending on what you're doing. Oh, hold on, hold on. I thought there were normally, naturally found bacteria in the soil. Well, sure. There's lots of Rhizobia bacteria in the soil, aren't there? Sure. If you've been raising soybeans on your ground for years, you've got some natural Rhizobia bacteria. The problem is, is the ones that are tough enough to survive with all the other bacteria in your soil aren't necessarily the ones that are most efficient at producing nitrogen for your plant. So you can apply the efficient strains of Rhizobia bacteria for only a dollar or two an acre. It's really not a big expense. And it only takes about a quarter of a bushel or maybe less to justify the cost. On our farm, we've typically gotten a bushel or more gain using an ocula. So it's been a really good return. Yeah. So this isn't some enormous deal where a farmer will say, oh, I'm going to invest a dollar and I'm going to get 500 back or anything like that. But if the farmer invests a dollar and he gets 10 to 20 back, that's an enormous return on investment. It's huge. That's pretty fun. I wish I could send money to New York and get the same thing out of the stock market. That'd be great. But anyway, with this Rhizobia bacteria, if a farmer will treat his soybeans ahead of time, basically at planting time, we're counting or us as farmers are counting on that Rhizobia bacteria to do some good things in that soil. It doesn't always happen because there can be things like flooding or sometimes these natural bacteria can kill the Rhizobia bacteria that we're putting out there. But that usually doesn't happen to a great degree. So generally, when a farmer puts an inoculant on his seed, those bacteria do some good and they'll gain him one to two bushels. Now, in some cases where there aren't a lot of naturally found bacteria, it might gain the farmer five to ten bushels. That's a really big deal. Well, here's the other side of it too. We're talking about live bacteria that we're putting onto the seed so it's in the right position to be able to work with that young seedling. To get the most out of your live bacteria that you're putting on, you need to put it on the seed right before it goes on the ground. So, let's just say that you're planting a garden and you've got legume crops, like a soybean is, maybe you've got some different varieties of peas. There are some inoculants that you could put right on peas, you want to put it on directly as you're planting that seed. Well, once again, inoculant is live bacteria that's actually beneficial to the plant. It's an important thing in crop production. Well, another thing that's important in crop production is having great weed control, especially if a farmer has our Weed of the Week. We'll tell you how to stop it on your farm coming up later in the show.