Agrarian life in the twenty-first century
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ipIcDB5TCkc
Education
 And I'm taking the chair's prerogative by asking a couple questions and then we'll open up to the audience. So beautiful film, really was beautiful film. I noticed that the original title was called The Seer and that seems reasonable when you talk about Wendell Berry. And the seer is like grounding the present but talking about the future, right? Of course seers are not often welcomed by their societies, but I'm just wondering what caused the change in the title? Yeah, the reason we called it The Seer originally was because the film really is, I call it a portrait of Wendell Berry because that's what it was in my mind from the beginning, it's what it still is. But a lot of viewers are confused because you're not looking at him, doing a full front interview with him. And so I wanted to evoke this idea that you're seeing through his eyes, that it's the way Wendell sees the world rather than the way the world sees Wendell. And there's a lot of reasons behind the reason why we chose to do it that way. But to answer your question, you know, the seer also sees the future and has this kind of prophetic lens, which I think any of you who've read Wendell Berry might agree with me that he has that, and then some. And, but Wendell did not like that title. He didn't tell me, Tanya told Jeff at the Henry County Harvest Showcase, when we were there in Henry County to show the film, and you know, they knew the title, but they were just reluctant to tell us that Wendell absolutely hated the title. And we were like, wish you would have told us that. So I wrote to Wendell and told him we were going to change the title. And he wrote back to me explaining the reason why he disliked the title. He said, it creates, it gives me more attention than I deserve or can deal with. And so, you know, he told me several times that he is nothing but for his place and for the people around him, and that our culture likes to make idols of people and that that's not real. And so early on, I said to him, well, I don't need to film you. There's no reason to film you. I'll film your place. I'll film the people you see and you love and that is who you are. And that was the whole concept, you know. So look and see seemed to us to come from Mary Berry's, the way she talks about her parents always told her to look and see. And it seems more Wendell, really, as the kind of command telling all of us to look, not just look, but to then see what's there. So it seemed more fitting and he appreciated it. It's also, it's also changing out a noun for verbs. So it really, you know, it's more action. Yeah. One thing I was very struck by watching a couple times that the opening sequence, some critics say it reminds us, reminds them of Quayana Scotsi, Life Out of Balance with that apocalyptic feel. I think it's a little bit more along the lines of this underappreciated film from 2007, What a Way to Go, Life at the End of Empire by Timothy Bennett, which has a voice over rather than music. But be that as it may, can you give us some insight in terms of the way to combine the, the, Barry's narration with these images of destruction and mechanization? You know, just to give us some idea about how that, how that worked. And I think it's quite effective as a beginning. Sure. Yeah. This is where I wish Jeff were here. We kind of divide and conquer because he took the little ones home to bed. But basically I wanted to make a film that simply transported you to Wendell's world. That was totally a departure from the world we're in. And so I started the film with that lock down the woods. And I didn't want any of the noise of the world we're in. And I thought the film was done. And Jeff said, no, you know, we're going to be showing this at film festivals and South by Southwest. And, you know, all these people are going to be coming in off the streets, off their cell phones, and you need a transition. And he's the one who found that poem and thought that that poem was just so pertinent to our day and our culture. And so, and he wanted to cut it with footage that was such a clear departure from the world of Wendell, but that was really from the world we all live in. And so he cut that completely on his own. And so this is the prologue that has to start. It's a transition. And I think another thing he often says that I think is important to mention is that, you know, you know, y'all are in Indiana. Like I'm from a rural background originally. But a lot of urban viewers don't really think that the rural pertains to them at all, particularly in our culture today, this rural-urban divide. And I think that was on Jeff's mind a lot too is that Wendell calls you out, you know, whoever you are. You pertain to the stories. It's not just farmers from rural Kentucky. I think that poem and the way he cut it is communicating that. It's saying, you know, you, this also pertains to you. Yeah, I think it's quite effective. It really is. My last question. One theme from the critical reaction argues that this is actually two films. An homage to the Kentucky prophets of rural values and a brief exploration of the farming community in Barry's neighborhood. One is a lovingly curated biopic. The other is in the style of Cineva Verite. You think the critics are on to something? I like critics. I think it's really good to have criticism. So, sure, maybe they're on to something. I think that I personally think a lot of documentaries oversimplify things. And I'm not particularly interested in that. I want to see something that reflects the real space of something. And that's often complicated and doesn't fit into a simple three-act structure. I remember my film professor, I won't mention his name, when I was in grad school, said to me at one point, he said, Sarah, put his arm around me, you know, fatherly-like, and said, the problem with your filmmaking is that you don't know how to tell stories. And I didn't really worry too much about that at the time. I think that to me, you know, this sort of three-act structure is helpful. But as a documentarian, I'm interested in the nonfiction space because it doesn't fit into that, ever. And I'm not so interested in you sitting there thinking about what a great filmmaker I am. I'm more interested in creating a space for you to inhabit and have your own experience. And so I think the best documentaries we were talking about, Frederick Wiseman and Albert Maisels and these classic documentarians that are not drawing attention to themselves as filmmakers, but are more creating this transparent lens. You're just in somewhere. So if you felt transported somewhere else, wherever that may be, then I feel like that was a success. And I think if I oversimplify things and try to make it too neat of a package, it's more about my own, you know, authorship than it is about a space for the audience. So that would be my polite defense. Well, I was transported, no question. So let's get some questions from the audience. And I will repeat the question after the person wants to talk. So, any questions or comments from the audience? Come on, guys. Yeah. . . . . . . . So the comment was that she doesn't want to read Lyndal Berry at night because it's too disturbing. But she's... Wakes her up. It wakes her up in that way. And that she's thanking Laura for doing this film. Thank you. So it's a really humble challenge to try to make a film about one of your favorite writers and artists. And I think Jeff said it well at the beginning. You know, that you can't ever expect to sort of, you know, kind of capture that. And I think reading is in some ways, you know, I mean, some people here might disagree with me, but is in some ways a superior art form in that it requires so much of your own personal imagination and investment and it's so intimate, you know. And so my own experiences with Wendell's books are really important to me personally. And so I just wanted to make a film that might capture some little essence that might make people who didn't know Wendell read Wendell and then might make people who love Wendell Berry like I do just be reminded and encouraged, you know, because you're kind of going against the grain with your values. So, yeah, thank you. Yeah. Yeah, thanks for asking. We're totally a mom and pop shop. We, it did just go onto Netflix. So that's a really great victory for us. So people can see it that way, which is great. And then there'll be a shortened version, like a 53-minute version on PBS in the spring, which is also great. Yeah, independent lens. And then DVDs and Blu-rays and we're putting together an educational guide for, you know, universities and colleges and high schools. Anyway, that, we're all, we are making those ourselves and we're selling those ourselves. And so lookandseafilm.com and we're shipping them all out. Our boys have helped package them. So we're shipping those out starting December 1st. So thanks for asking. Yes. Do people hear the, the, the question? Okay. Yeah. Well, there's so much to say there. And he's written really interesting things about it. And he has an article called The Problem with Tobacco, I think is what it's called. He also has another article called In Defense of the Tobacco Farmer, which I think is interesting. And so it's a complex history. And he can give it a lot more justice than I can. This is my take on it from being around it and asking all those same questions. Is that, first of all, I think there is a tendency sometimes, particularly in Southern agrarian history, to throw out everything about it because there are some negative things attached to it. In other words, you know, the history of the tobacco farming in rural Kentucky is beautiful. In the sense that it was a handmade crop. It wasn't a big, large-scale crop. It depended on community and culture to support it. And there wasn't a mechanization that could really take that away from the community until fairly recently. And the tobacco co-op, which is what Wendell's father and his grandfather supported, was basically a cooperative farming economy in Kentucky that really controlled supply. And you could really do that with tobacco especially because if you didn't sell it all that year, it could go in a pool for next year. It wasn't like broccoli. You know, you couldn't hold it over for an extra year. But they cooperatively controlled the amount of tobacco that was released in the market that year. And so it kept the prices at a stable place. And so it meant that a farmer could support a family on five acres of tobacco every year. And so it created an economy that was at a scale that was sustainable. And it was culture-based and community-based. And it wasn't outside labor. It was neighbors working together. And so there's all these lessons to learn from the way people farm tobacco in Kentucky. That I think his argument is, yes, tobacco, health problems, we understand. But this was before the big, huge companies were coming in and doing all the things they did. So his point is, look at it as a case study for sustainable agriculture and for ideas around sustainable agriculture economically, community-wise, the scale-wise, and learn from it. Don't just say because it has these health issues that we now know about. Throw all that history and all that knowledge out. And I think that's a compelling way to think about it. I think sometimes you have to look at Southern agrarian history and pick those things apart and try to find where there are lessons to be learned because there are lessons, even if there's other things that were wrong. You know what I mean? That's my take. I think that today in Kentucky and then the tobacco we filmed, it was a beautiful crop to film. I mean, just the handmade quality of it and the process of it. And so I'm not trying to romanticize cigarettes, you know, but to look at agriculture from that lens I think is interesting. More questions? Yeah. Lee Daniel. He asked about Lee Daniel, the cinematographer. He asked if I have any good stories about working with Lee Daniel. Do you know Lee? Oh, yeah. Okay. I've known Lee about 20 years. He's a cinematographer for the film and he shot our last film also. So he's like an uncle to my kids. We love Lee. You know, Lee is a really talented cinematographer and he, I think the way that I talk about working with Lee and we've learned this together, is that I give him a lot of space. You know, he really wants just natural light. He doesn't like things staged. I always say I think Lee unframes things as opposed to put things in a box. So we chase the light and I give him the best equipment I can give him and then I let him do his thing. You know, it's a pretty natural kind of working relationship. I'm sure I have a lot of good stories about working with Lee. I can't think of anything off the top of my head that he might want me to share. You know, Lee's really interesting too because Lee was in a car accident about 15 years ago and he doesn't have any use of his left arm. And so he struggles a lot when you're dealing with big, heavy cameras. And we only had a four-person crew. It was Jeff and me and our sound guy and Lee usually with a big Ari Alexa or Ari Amura cameras. And so Lee, you know, he's heart and soul getting through that to do those shoots. And I think you can feel that. And I think the people who we filmed, the Barrys, for example, you know, he's very calming. He's a calming presence. He's not someone who's going to kind of assault you with a camera or a lens. Because the people in rural Kentucky were not particularly impressed that we were there with a camera. They had absolutely no interest in participating and were very difficult to earn their trust. And I think Lee was a key to sort of making people comfortable, his disposition towards it all. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yeah, I mean, I think, yeah, it's a heavy question. I think that when he talks about displacement, and I'll tell you this is my take on it a little bit too, is that those guys who worked in those fields in that large-scale tobacco farm were wonderful guys, and we got to know them. And I felt the sadness that there was an economy that was dependent on displacing people from their families for eight months out of the year. You know, I have young children, and like Jose and Juan, I mean, they would talk to me about that off camera, about how they hadn't seen their kids in eight or nine months, you know? And yeah, it was a good job, and it was giving them money, but that we live in a world that we're, you know, like our agriculture is dependent on that kind of situation. So there's a displacement, but it's not a, I don't think that Wendell, and I'm not trying to imply with the edit, that it's displacing, that those people are displacing my people. Those people are displaced from their homes. Why can't they make sustainable incomes on their land, you know? One of them farms tobacco in Mexico, but he can't make a living. So it was kind of talking about an economy that displaces people from their homes and their families. I think that Wendell is concerned about a large-scale agriculture that displaces people from their own homes and farming where they are, because it's not an attack on that particular person. Does that make sense? I have had a lot of questions about that, though, and from different audiences, and it's interesting even talking with PBS. They were really upset that I had the Latino workers in there. And I was like, well, I mean, it's an ethnographic portrait. Like I'm simply filming what is there. And they're an important part of that story right now. And actually, they're human beings who have families and have lives and have perspectives and work really hard. And, you know, I wanted to represent them in some way. It felt weird to me to not represent that. And so then they said, well, we want you to cut that out. And I was like, really? Like that's kind of weird. And then they wanted me to say, well, if you're going to keep it in, then you need to talk about the history of slavery in Kentucky. And I thought, well, I get it because agrarianism and the South and slavery. I understand my family's from Mississippi. Like this is a painful part of history. But if you simply look at that place right now, you know, Henry County, Kentucky right now, it's not slavery pre-Civil War. It's something else. And it's, you know, you could argue that industrial agriculture is on a continuum with that exploitation. And that the small scale agrarian farms, many of it never had slaves because they were too poor. That's the kind of farming we're talking about. And it's really industrial, pre-industrial as a contrast. And so anyway, PBS decided. I said, well, have you read The Hidden Wound? Have you read Wendell's work about racism and the pain of it? He writes really beautifully about it and sensitively. And they backed off a little bit. And then they said, well, then put the Latinos back in there. We need diversity. I was like, OK. You know, I think sometimes our politics, you know, make us not be able to just see what's there and trust that we can talk about it sensitively and help each other. understand the differences. The provincialism of the small town that I think you're kind of getting at is real. And I don't think any of us can do away with that. What engravings he's asking about? So the way I make films, and I wish Jeff were here because he could speak really humorously about it because he thinks it's so madness. Because I don't have like a script and a structure. You know, I just want to absorb the place and let the place transform my way of seeing and then find my way out with 100 hours of footage. And it's very messy and expensive and takes forever. And he's just like, Woody, he's much more hierarchical in his structure. And so it's an interesting discourse. I wish you could hear some of it. But he, you know, basically I wait until the last minute. I see the patterns, I see the seasons, or I see a kind of historical frame from Wendell's life story. And as I'm editing, I'm trying to find those patterns. And Terrence Malick, who's a big mentor of mine, always says to me too, edit like it's scenes of, edit things like it's a piece of music. Let there be tangents and characters that come up and out and don't necessarily go anywhere. Find scenes you like and build around them. So that takes a long time. And it's really only at the last minute that I impose some kind of structure on it because I know it's necessary. And one night I was editing and I was trying to figure out, what's the structure here? I didn't want to do four seasons with a little cheesy, like what do you, you know, what do you do? And I was sitting there, I had like a whole bookshelf, you know, of all these Wendell Berry books. So I started flipping through his essay collection. And all of them have, you know, these chapters that have a kind of poetic title. And then they have kind of, they're exploring that theme. And so I said, well, we make it like a book, duh, you know. And so just kind of broke it up into chapters and had, I knew the titles of the chapters. And then Jeff said, you know, look at these wooden engravings that are in these books. Like let's contact him. Maybe he'll do some images. So Wesley Bates is a wood engraver, one of the world's best. And he's based out of near Ontario, outside of Toronto. And Jeff started up a conversation with him. And it was a collaborative process with Jeff and me and Wesley. We'd talk about each scene and he would come up with a sketch. And then when he'd finally get it, he engraves those images, seems like you know, on a block of wood. They're incredible. And so yeah, I think that made a big difference of trying to keep that, the kind of analog aesthetic in the film. And so he was actually in the film. Yes. And he was, well he filmed himself. We sent him a little camera and he set it up and filmed himself doing a little wood engraving. We couldn't afford to get up to Canada. But. Okay, I think we have one more, time for one more question. So. Over here. So. So. So. So. Thank you. Yeah, definitely. I mean, a couple quick things. I think in terms of the literacy, I definitely thought, you know, can you make a sort of experiment? Can you make an anti-screen screen? I always said this to Wendell. Can you make a film that would make people want to turn away from the screen and go into a book? And maybe want to go for a walk in the woods or actually look at their child, you know? It was sort of this experiment. So I hope that it encourages people to read. It's kind of antithetical to our culture now, unfortunately. But in terms of Terrence Malick, so I had the great fortune. I graduated from UT Film School and was going to go to Israel and do some work on water there. But it was very violent at the time. So I said, I'm going to wait a little bit. And I had volunteered to do a PSA for the local Save Our Springs Alliance in Austin, Texas, where I live. And Terry was a member. And he said, oh, I've seen her grad work. I actually want to do a whole film on it. It was one of those, like, I didn't earn it. I really didn't. He's a generous person. He kind of gives you way more than you deserve and expects you to rise up to it. So I worked with him then. And that was from 2002 to 2007 on the Unforeseen of that film. And he really shepherded me through that. You know, it's the kind of thing where you talk with him. And then you write a little one-page treatment. And then you send it to him. And he calls you and shreds it to pieces. And you start all the way over again. You know, any good teacher does that, right? And then it was a lot of, like, conversations with him. Like, these are the people I'm interviewing. And then he would tell me, oh, you need to go see this person and that person. I think, and I was telling John, I think the big influence is Terry. And so then Terry agreed to help me on this one, too. And so he watches my cuts. I'll have conversations with him. It's really the thinking. And I think what he has done for me is to challenge me to look beyond the literal. You know, to not always, you know, do things like a journalist. He always say to me, like, don't just do things chronologically. Look at what's happening and then figure out what the forces are behind what's happening and ask why. You know, or he would say, take that, take Barton Springs as that which God gave us and look at what we're doing to it. You know, or he'd say, see the whole world through a grain of sand. You know, these kinds of, like, huge philosophical questions that has a kind of a literal documentarian. It's like, huh? Like, what do I do with that? And it challenged you to look much more metaphorically and poetically at the world around you. So that's his primary influence. He's a wonderful teacher. I'm so grateful for him. Well, we have to end this program. Thank you so much, Laura and Jeff, for a wonderful film. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.