Disruptive Agriculture Technology Challenge D-Day
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ipPN8sgJXHc
People & Blogs
 Music The objective of today's event is really to source local innovations to bring disruptive agricultural technologies in our project implementation. We really believe that through this DAT challenge we will be able to identify innovators in several areas such as agricultural productivity, access to finance, increasing market access as well as data analytics. So the idea is to identify innovators who can really use technology to achieve impact at scale three to five times faster than we would through regular means. What is very important is that we have all the innovation ecosystem players supporting the local innovations. And one of the key ecosystem players for the innovation ecosystem is the public sector. Today we had a keynote speaker from the Honorable Minister of Agriculture, Honorable Minister of Ministry of ICT, and then Permanent Secretary of the MAIF, the Minister of Agriculture, and also World Bank Management. And in their speeches, in their remarks to open today, we received a lot of positive and very strong support for innovations to scale up innovation for agricultural transformation, leveraging disruptive agricultural technologies. We must see efficiency in the running of services. And that's why I am happy the agricultural sector is leading on adopting these services. Current agriculture exports represent nearly three quarters of the total value of Uganda's exports. I want to tell you, fellow participants, that our local innovation ecosystem is so rich and growing. Disruptive technologies could substantially improve the incomes and livelihoods of farmers and agricultural entrepreneurs themselves. With smallholder farms making up 80% of all farms in sub-Saharan Africa, including here in Uganda, this will mean the fruits of such technologies will directly translate to improved livelihoods among the neediest. So what we do, we have a system one, when a farmer calls us and he has a challenge of reports a case of a pest through the call center, we first analyze whether we have that case already in place that we know about the pest, and if we do, then we provide the solution. The specific challenges we are addressing here is farmer registration and enrollment is expensive. Because we do not only create the demand, but also create the financing mechanism for farmers to access. We want, at a flip of a finger, for somebody to see how many enterprises are in this region. The platform can enable an off-taker to plug in into the platform to see what the farmers have produced for that particular season, in what quantities they are, and they can even communicate the price per kilo that they want to be able to buy. We have 50 verified input suppliers, and we have 1,200 agro buyers in our platform. The presentation here, it was intense initially, but the crowd was supportive. The questions were interesting, however we were able to answer all of them appropriately. Today, I want to believe that we are here to win under challenge number four, data. How do we create digital platforms that will allow them then to actually enjoy the same economies that Uber drivers enjoy, that Airbnb hosts, guests enjoy? We, as startups in this country, need to be very well prepared with what the future holds. That is the missing link to me. As we are thinking about farming, let's remember to think about the entire value chain and what processes and activities are going to uptake those agricultural productions. That is a big gap. It is projected that when you integrate ICT with agricultural production, you double productivity and value for whatever you produce. I have come to learn today that we really have great people, local people who have very good innovation. There is a lot of potential, most of them are youth. So we are really eager to make sure that we promote these innovators and expose them and lead them to other services so that we can really expose their potential. Thank you.