How to Prevent Soil Erosion by Planting Sweet Potatoes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=irTDYTwXSqk
Howto & Style
 My name is Amiri Kitonga from Tuguakalasta. Today I wanted to talk about how we can prevent soil erosion by planting sweet potatoes as one of the cover crops that we teach tasty farmers to plant in their gardens. Now these are the sweet potatoes. We plant the tubes so that when we plant the tubes we can have these tubes having the sweet potatoes that we eat during the breakfast even at tea time, at lunch and even at supper. The first thing that we do, we just, we dig the terraces. You can see these are the terraces that are dark. So after digging these terraces then we plant these sweet potatoes at the, you can see they are at the top. So that when the sweet potatoes have their sweet, they just enter inside. And when we plant the sweet potatoes, we plant like this way. You can see how I do plant them. One on this side, the other one on the other side. The way we do the conservation farming. You can see how we plant them. When we plant the other side, the other one on this side. Still you can see even the trees. I have even the avocado trees in my garden. So that when we plant the other one on this way. This is how we plant them. You can see the other one on the other side. So that the time of covering, these ones, these ones, these ones on this side, they will cover this side. And those that were on the other side. And those that were on the other side. And those that were on the other side. They will cover down those terraces. So when the rain comes, they are the stop of the rains. The rain won't move the soil. So that the soil cannot lose its fertility. So these terraces, they are the ones that are going to hold the soil. You can see I have planted all this plot. And still I am continuing to plant to the other side. Still in this plot of mine. I have planted the herbaconda fruit. You can see them here. Still there here. You can see the others here. Still there on the other side. So this is the work that I have been doing during this COVID-19. The time we are at home. In my quarantine. I have been doing the quarantine in my garden. You can see I have planted all these ones today. All these ones. All these ones. I am just trying to mitigate to the way the things they are. So that I can feed my family through these ones. Still I can have the veins to feed the cattle. And you know these veins. And you know these veins. They have a lot of protein in the cattle. Still I can sell the sweet potatoes that I will remove from these veins. And my children can take it as a food. Still I can sell some to get some income. And I think that I can sell some to the same. And I think that is the way we are mitigating to the state that it is during now. So this is my content. And I am still continuing to think how I can change. Though we are at home. How I can change from the way we used to move out and staying at home. And keeping myself busy doing something. So that I won't get the stress. So that I enjoy the place that I have. And hand something from my stay at home. Thank you. Thank you.