Top 5 Cattle Breeds - The BEST Cows for your Ranch!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IsbrhCr64cI
Travel & Events
 Cattle ranching is the foundation of much of America's ranching heritage. Cowboys or cattlemen were the backbone of America's early economy, driving the growth of railroads, towns, and international trade. While less adventurous than in the past, cattle ranching is still a mainstay of American agriculture. There are more than 70 registered breeds of cattle in the United States. In this video, we're going to give you our picks for the best five. Let's dive in. The Black Angus is the most popular beef cow in America. Its high yield, great flavor, and excellent marbling have made it a staple of the U.S. food world. The Black Angus was introduced in the 19th century. With the breed's low maintenance in both feed and calving, it makes an excellent choice for cattle ranchers today. Holsteins are iconic. Black and white with a large frame, these docile cows are most commonly used for dairy production. Holstein steers offer a consistently high quality of beef, owing to the fact that they're rarely bred with other types of cattle. Originating from England, the Hereford matures early and is easy to breed. Herefords feature a large frame with a red body and white face, feet, belly, and horns. Before Angus, Hereford was the leading American beef breed. No list of American cattle would be complete without the Longhorn. This hardy breed is the direct descendant of the cattle brought over by Spanish explorers more than 400 years ago. The rich flavor, lean overall fat, and high marble of the Longhorn have made it a world-renowned breed. Longhorns are best suited for large ranches and arid climates. While the French Cherolet was not introduced to the U.S. until the 1930s, it is widely regarded as the most important breed in U.S. beef production history. The Cherolet is a rapidly growing large frame cow that milks well and can even be used as a beast of burden should a field need to be plowed. Their rugged adaptability has allowed herds to develop across the nation. Thanks for watching. We're United Country Real Estate, experts in all things lifestyle properties. This video has only scratched the surface of the world of cattle ranching, but with this baseline knowledge of the top cattle breeds in the U.S., you can start to see what type of cattle might be most appealing for you to ranch. Thanks again and stay tuned for the next video. Thank you.