Ackerman's Equipment & Rental
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IsggOR71ejo
Pets & Animals
 Hi, I'm Joe Mischka from Rural Heritage TV and Magazine. As most of you know, we report on topics related to the use of draft horses, mules, oxen, and other draft animals. Today, I want to take a few minutes to tell you about something that's been happening in that world. A couple years ago, we reported on a new company that had set up shop in Mount Hope, Ohio. The company is called Ackermans Equipment and Rental, and it was created by the Wangard family, who most of you know as the folks that run Pioneer Equipment. Pioneer, of course, is a leading manufacturer of horse-drawn agriculture equipment and have been doing it for over 40 years. At that time, we were told Ackermans would serve local farmers by offering for sale new and used equipment, equipment especially aimed at draft animal-powered farms and small-scaled mixed-power operations. In one place, these farmers are able to shop for the latest models of plows, manure spreaders, planters and drills, four carts, and much more. In addition, they can also look over Ackermans' inventory of used equipment. That used equipment inventory changes almost daily, so it pays to keep coming back. We asked Joe Wangard to explain to us what the name Ackermans means and why they've moved their retail sales from Dalton to Mount Hope. Ackerman, or translated into English, is Acre-man. So anybody that has a small garden to a large farmer is an Acre-man, Ackerman. And Pioneer has been serving the horse-drawn industry for 40 years. We felt that we could do more for the industry by separating retail from the manufacturing facility and focus strictly on retail. Our main goal was to have a retail facility for our customer base within the community, but also those people that are not covered by dealerships throughout the world. So we serve it all for manure spreaders by Lancaster Strutter. We have bale wrappers for farm lab bale wrappers. We have hay tedders for mesh hay, many manufacturers out of Pennsylvania, which are people that we have known for the past 40 years. So we knew the people, we know their story, and we know their product, and now we can offer a complete product line that we know that we can stamp behind and that's going to be a good product offering for you. We now rent basically our complete product offering to our local customer base that they can rent it and use it and try it out before they actually make the investment to buy it. So that is now today we're adding product line as we go from, we just recently introduced Kirkwood fertilizer spreaders to our lineup. And we have a lot of people that are farming on a small scale with tractors that need the same implement. So we have seen a gap of farmers that are somewhat left behind by people, John Deere, the big boys, and we found a niche that this equipment that works for large horse farmers works well for the small scale tractor farmers as well. So that has been a huge market for us as well outside just working with horses. Here at Rural Heritage we think this is an exciting development. New equipment from a wide variety of reputable manufacturers being sold at one place. The same place where farmers can buy used equipment and enjoy the savings while knowing the implements have been inspected and serviced by professionals. Finally, to simplify the process even further, Ackermans provides access to financing on the spot through their partnership with Farmers National Bank. The Ackermans website is well designed and kept up to date with their latest offerings, both new and used. You can find the website address at the bottom of this screen. Thanks for watching today. If you would like to see more interesting and useful news like this, please follow us on our Facebook and Instagram pages and subscribe to our Rural Heritage YouTube channel.