Elon Musk's Crazy Plan To Change Twitter Forever
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=isjlcDfIGA8
Science & Technology
 A few days ago Elon Musk made a stunning statement on Twitter where he announced that he bought a 9.2% stake in this company. However today, he made an offer to purchase 100% of Twitter's shares for a staggering $41.4 billion. With that, Elon publicly priced Twitter and acknowledged that this company has a giant potential. So he wants to make it bigger than any other company. But what needs to happen for Elon to accomplish this goal? And can this really happen? For now, the market value of Twitter is around $45 billion. So how good is this offer? As of this moment, the biggest Twitter shareholder officially declined this offer. But Elon Musk is still persisting. However, there are a lot of complicated procedures that Elon is facing. So let's explain everything. The story is moving fast, so let's take a second to get caught up. After the share purchase became public knowledge, Twitter CEO Parag Agrawal released a statement. He's both a passionate believer and intense critic of the service, which is exactly what we need on Twitter and in the boardroom to make us stronger in the long term. A shareholder does not technically have a say in the daily running of a business, but a board member certainly does. However, in a surprising turn of events, Musk declined to join the board. That means that Elon Musk vastly limited the influence he has, right? Wrong. The offer to join the Twitter board was made with the proviso that Musk could not own more than 14.8% of stock. In declining to join the board, Musk would be able to continue to amass stock. But, in typical Elon style, he has gone a step further than that, with an offer to buy 100% of Twitter shares. This would effectively make Twitter a private company and would give the billionaire complete control. In a letter to Brett Taylor, Twitter's chair, Musk stated, I invested in Twitter as I believe in its potential to be the platform for free speech around the globe. And I believe free speech is a societal imperative. Since making my investment, I now realize the company will neither thrive nor serve this societal imperative in its current form. Twitter needs to be transformed as a private company. So, counter-intuitively, the decision to not sit on the board has allowed Musk to make a move to completely take over the social media giant. A move that has been dubbed a hostile takeover by some members of the press. As of this moment, the largest shareholder of Twitter officially declined this offer by posting a statement, being one of the largest and long-term shareholders of Twitter, at Kingdom underscore KHC, and I reject this offer. However, Elon Musk is not giving up so easily, and in response, he tweeted, Taking Twitter private at $54.20 should be up to shareholders, not the board. As a result, nothing is clear for now what will happen. But what do we know about the former PayPal CEO's vision for the platform? Musk's relationship with Twitter is, well, not straightforward. The Silicon Valley billionaire has amassed an 80 million strong following and tweeted around 5,000 times. Despite this apparent partiality, he has been increasingly outspoken in his criticism of the platform. On March 26th, just nine days prior to the announcement, Elon Musk tweeted, Given that Twitter serves as the de facto public town square, failing to adhere to free speech principles fundamentally undermines democracy, what should be done? This question assumes two things. One, that Twitter is failing to adhere to free speech. And two, that something should be done about it. His position as a self-proclaimed free speech absolutist has been pretty consistent over the years. He has long rallied against Facebook for lax encryption and security. He famously advised his followers to use Signal following Facebook's acquisition of the messaging platform WhatsApp. Indeed, there have been several suggestions that hint at a desire for Twitter to be less reliant on corporations and to give more freedom to its users. On April 10th, the day after the announcement, Musk said that Twitter should have no ads. The power of corporations to dictate policy is greatly enhanced if Twitter depends on advertising money to survive. Currently, Twitter is reliant on advertising for 90% of its revenue. Improving ads would amount to a major remodeling. However, there is also a suggestion that a more moderate approach is on the cards. Twitter Blue launched back in June 2021. This is a subscription service and Musk has suggested that subscribers should get an ad-free experience. It's not just a reliance of corporate ads that could soon be changing. If you are a regular Twitter user, you are probably familiar with rumors of a potential edit button. There are several ideas of how this could be implemented. Essentially, this would give the user time to review and edit a tweet after it was sent. This poll from April 4th would suggest that the man in question is open to this idea. Siddharth Pai, a venture capitalist, suggested a fake news rating in a tweet to Musk. The response was, Fake news purveyors would have hysterics, but a rating system would improve quality of news greatly. Next we will see the introduction of a fake news rating algorithm designed to give users greater context. Talking of algorithms, it has long been a refrain of the Tesla CEOs that the Twitter algorithm should be open source. This would mean that the code used to prioritize tweets, suggest users to follow and make other recommendations would be open to public scrutiny. More than that, a truly open source algorithm would mean that anyone could potentially contribute to how the algorithm works. Another poll in late March, in which his users were asked whether the Twitter algorithm should be open source, shows the world's richest man is seriously considering this. Whatever the exact details are, or will be, of Elon's vision for Twitter, the subject of free speech will be at its core. One thing is plain, he is certainly trying to get a feel for what users think about radical ideas for change. The most part of the contractors of Musk are already saying that far from amounting to win for free speech, the takeover could limit open discourse, putting too much control in the hands of a single individual. So what's next for Twitter? If the takeover is unsuccessful, then it sounds like the new majority shareholder will be looking to sell off his shares. That's it for now. Don't forget to subscribe.