Episode 6 | Farm Inputs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IuS8ogXirE4
Education
 Do you trust where your seedlings come from? Anything moved onto your property can be a potential source of plant pests. Plant pathogens, pests and diseases can be transferred onto your farm via seedlings, compost and seeds. This video explains how some growers manage their farm inputs to prevent the risk of biosecurity incursions on their farms. I'm Simon Vu, I work at KM Vegetables. It's a family owned business, been doing Asian vegetables for about 20 years or so. Biosecurity matters to our farm as it causes a major threat to our business. You know, we want to ensure we're growing the best quality stuff and sending it out and make sure everyone's happy with the product. Our major inputs are seedlings and seeds. We also receive chemicals and fertilizers from outsourced parties. We source our seedlings from one of WA's biggest seedling companies. The seedlings are free of pests and diseases prior to arriving to the farm. You know, we request that the supplier treats them. So with seedlings, as soon as they arrive to a farm, there's a specific area we request the driver drop them off to. That area is away from the production and any high risk areas. We will plant them calling when we are ready and when the inspection is complete. With our seeds, we have containers and a specific room up in the shed away from all the other products that we keep until the use. We have a look at the seedlings just a visual inspection. Make sure they are free of diseases and pests and whatnot. If there is anything out of the ordinary, we'll contact the supplier. So as per the Fresh Care standards, we are required to maintain a logbook and inventory of the stock that arrives to our property. And we have records, receipts and everything in case a recall is required. We do have a procedure in place that allows us to recall to a specific batch if necessary. If there is any issues with a certain specific area or seedlings that we see, we tend to isolate the whole batch just in case there is further contamination rather than just the one. So we pride ourselves in our ongoing business. You know, we've been supplying for the last 20 years. We have heard issues around the community where other farms have been affected by biosecurity hazards. This causes major issues with the business and we would like to prevent that from happening to our farm. After watching the videos in this series, take the time to review your farm's biosecurity measures. Identify which pathways you are controlling well and which may require more attention. Create a biosecurity plan for your property. Through some simple steps and small changes, you can cost effectively improve your on-farm biosecurity and reduce the risk to your business. And we are here to help. If you need any further information or would like to discuss how you can improve your farm's biosecurity, please contact Vegetables WA, the Department of Primary Industries and Regional Development or AusVeg. By working together, we can create a sustainable vegetable industry. We are here to help you with the best practices of the industry. We are here to help you with the best practices of the industry.