Mastering the Art of Vegetable Gardening | Book Review
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IWlsSCemCj8
Entertainment
 Isn't this beautiful? Today I'm featuring an awesome publication by Matt Mattis. The book is titled Mastering the Art of Vegetable Gardening and this one is truly one of my favorites because I love vegetables and I love photography and it's just a super creative unique book that I want to flip through really quick and highlight just a few of my favorite things about this book with hopes that you may consider adding it to your collection. So as you can tell there's lots of awesome photography featuring today's vegetables. A few of my favorites there. I'm just going to flip through a few of my favorite sections to give you an idea of what the book's like. There's 272 pages in this book featuring different varieties of vegetables and creative ways of growing it. Oh this is gorgeous in a container. I'm telling you it would just totally inspire you to grow just about anything you can imagine. Oh look peas. Pretty easy. They really are that easy. Cow peas. I haven't tried those yet but what isn't that gorgeous. Okra. One of my favorites. They're gorgeous. Look at the plants. That's a pretty one. Oh of course tomatoes. Potatoes. And different topics such as pest and disease. How to harvest the different varieties and just important things you should know about it. Everything from you know pollination ideas and so on. But as you can tell it's not an intimidating book. It's very it's super easy to read and it will totally allow inspire you to get out in the garden and not be confused. Sometimes the gardening books are just so confusing and this is awesome. And every single one of these I looked up I googled and it was super easy to find this seed to grow. And there it is. I highly recommend this book. I hope you will check it out. You can find it on Amazon. I'll share a link to it and I hope it inspires you to get out in the garden. You can get this beautiful hardcover book on Amazon right now for up to 35% off. Be sure to check out the link and the information here on the video. for more information. We have www.mean.au