Jim Baker Estate Farm Equipment Auction in Creston IA
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j2yFTF32glo
Entertainment
 Good morning everybody. For any of you that came here this morning to watch my episode of the farm seller's journey, I apologize. I'm going to broadcast it tomorrow. But this morning, we have an auction in a remote location that had some internet issues. And we had an internet connection installed particularly at the site yesterday. And then unfortunately this morning when we arrived there was issues and it wasn't working. But by about 9, 10, we've got it back up and running again. So while I'm at the auction here, I'm going to give you guys a rundown and sort of our preview video of that prior to the auction. There is online bidding. The name of the auction is the Jim Baker Estate and it's at Creston, Iowa. The address if you want to bid live is 2524 high and dry road. It's straight south of Creston on the pavement. There is a wide variety of things here today. And I'm going to give you a kind of a tour and you'll be able to look and see what we're selling. But you can also click the link in the description above to go to the online bidding. Information, there's going to be a lot of items that are going to be in the live auction at 10am. And then at 1230 we will be moving over to the larger catalog things. So if you're going to bid live online, that's going to start at 1230 when you click that link above. I'm going to flip the camera around here and I'm going to show you, kind of drive around the yard here and show you what we've got. On our online bidding platform, most of what I'm going to show you is going to be the online catalogued items. Nice baler today, nice 566 baler. You're going to find that a lot of this stuff is in really good shape. There's a Vermeer BP-8000 on the sale as well. A lot of good hay equipment as well. There's a H&S high capacity rake there. Had a few calls on the manure spreader there, John Deere 350 manure spreader. And then there's also a John Deere planter here as well. Cultivator, and there's a couple different cultivators. Case IH drill there. And a variety of different wagons on the sale. Nice livestock trailer, Trailman 2000. And then a bigger Brent 444 grain wagon. Heads and platforms here. Concern one of the stars of the show. A really nice John Deere 9400 combine. And we all know it's that time of year and people are out looking for them. I expect that that thing will bring a pretty decent price today. And it is in really good condition, which is just going to lend more to itself. Got a line of tractors here. We've got three smaller older tractors. The Ford John Deere and the McCormick Deering tractor. All of those have online bidding. And then the bigger ones. And if you're looking for a nice 4440, there is one heck of a tractor right there. Real, real nice tractor. And it's as clean as can be. Had a lot of people come and look at it. And they would agree with that same statement that it is really a good clean tractor. 4430 after that. And then a couple more 3010 John Deere here. We've got some of the associated smaller items that will be offline. Some weights and tire chains and stuff. Buckets, a couple of pickups. One Chevy and one Ford that we'll also be selling today. Along with a couple of different four wheelers. I'll try and run you guys down the other side here so you can see some of that. Bear with me because it is as thankful as we are for the rain. It does make mud and we've got plenty of that as well. You can see over in here a lot of the smaller offline items. Some of the gas tanks. There's four hay racks full of items over there that we'll be selling today. And some older cultivators, cultivator equipment and stuff like that. In the middle here we've got a feed grinder. Some older corn pickers and stuff like that that are on my right side. There's also a cake feeder in the mix there as well. So a lot of that stuff is going to be online. If you want to join us in person, come out and join us. There's no buyer fee if you're bidding in person. If you do bid online we charge a five percent buyer fee that covers the cost of adding that technology and the extra help that runs that side of the show. And it's pretty convenient for the buyers to not spend the whole day standing at the auction. If you're just looking for one or two items it's a really nice way to do it. So we look forward to a good auction today. At the auction site it's 515-537-6633 or you can look us up. I couldn't turn around originally up there so I'm going to come back here to the bottom end and I'm going to turn around and show you this middle row of stuff that we've got here. So you get one chance it's going to rain a little more on us yet. I didn't mention the first time if you're looking for a bale haul. Here we go. This is kind of the middle row of things. There's kind of a mix of older equipment in here but some youthful equipment as well. Gravity wagons there as well, some boxes. Corn pickers are on the other side, feed grinders on the other side. It's a nice auction. It's a good farm auction and join us. A lot of bale rings right there if you see those. I didn't mention those earlier but there's a lot of them in there. There's several hay bale elevators out here as well too. I know people are always looking for those. So we would be glad to have you in person but we're also glad to have you online if you would like to bid that way. We will help you out any way we can. Pickup is going to be any time over the next two weeks. This bigger equipment usually kind of disappears fast but if we have it here we'd like to have it out within about two weeks. Thank you all. If you have any questions give us a call.