Mahindra Accessories from Moe's Outdoor Equipment & Supplies (2013)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J3c-Exk-iKE
Education
 Well good day, my name is David, I'm with West Chester Lawn and Garden. We're in Liberty Township, Ohio and today we want to talk to you about Mahindra tractors and their uses with some attachments and implements. As you see equipped here on these Mahindra tractors, an attachment is something like a loader here on the front used to pick up soil or gravel or logs or whatever you need to move around on your property. They can also be equipped with a backhoe and a backpack here that's going to help you do some trenching on your properties and do the things you need to do that way. And the other attachment that comes with a tractor right from the factory would be a mid-mount mower and you would use that just like you would a lawn mower. So those are the things that are called attachments. They're generally attached at the factory, they can be added later, but generally attached at the factory. And there are three different things you can do with your Mahindra tractor. Mahindra tractors, we like to talk about them lifting more and working harder and pulling more and certainly they do that and these are some of the things that help you get the work done. As we talk about Mahindra implements, there are several different things you can put on the back of the tractor on the three-point hitch to help you get some work done. This is the bush hog. It's used to mow fields whether they're pasture or just fields that are there that you mow in frequently, you know, just a few times a year as opposed to mowing it like a lawn. Different sizes, but you can adapt the size to the tractor that you have. You have things like a disc there if you have a garden or a small plot that you want to work with. A seeder that will allow you to spread either seed or fertilizer on, again, a smaller part of your property. Off to our right there is some landscape rakes for finishing a lawn, getting it prepared to seed if you're in that kind of a business. As we back on up across over here, things like box scrapers over here that, again, help us prepare an area to be seeded. We have greater blades, different sizes and styles. And then across the way we got a rotor tiller, post hole digger down through there. Lots of different attachments that allow you to utilize the tractor that you have. Again, the all-mount on the three-point hitch, and allow you to be very versatile and adaptable with what you can do with your Mahindra tractor. I want to thank you for your time today. If we can be of help, give us a call at our phone number, 755-4655. That's area 513. You can find us on Facebook. You can also go to our website, www.westchesterlionagarden.com. Thanks, and have a good day.