Milking Machine (detailed)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J4-8pn6JNbs
Science & Technology
 Now, let us introduce one more useful machine. Milking twice a day is a tedious and compulsory job. Scarcity of trained people for milking is a major problem of commercial dairy farms. Timely manual milking is not that easy even with 10 to 20 cows or buffaloes. Again, the milk should reach the consumer in time. Motorized milking machine is of great help for this 365 days job. This machine was introduced in the 80s itself but it was not accepted widely by your farmers due to high cost and some misconceptions. There are both manual and motorized types. However, the manual model is not popular with which one has to work continuously. Hence, we find motorized milking machine everywhere. We can milk with 1, 2, 3 or 4 cans at a time with this machine. Compressor for creating vacuum, milk collection can and milking tubes are the major parts of this machine. This 1.5 HP compressor runs with single phase electric motor. However, we have to keep oil engine or a generator set as standby to face electricity failure. More vacuum level disturbs the milking animal and less vacuum leaves milk in the udder. Hence, we have to set the vacuum level at 5 kg per square centimeter to 9 kg per square centimeter on this gauge. This PVC pipeline running along the length of the shed connects the vacuum chamber with the milking cans. This pipe has valves at regular intervals to enable attaching milk cans. This hose pipe connects the valve and the can. Opening this valve will run the vacuum to the milking can. Suck water in the bucket by dipping the milking tubes. Cleaning these tubes and the can before milking will avoid spoiling of milk. Then close the cap of the can and lock it so that the can becomes air tight. Cleaning the udder and the teats as usual. Then open the vacuum and attach the milking tubes to the teats. It attaches itself firmly due to vacuum. Now, the vacuum is continuous from the compressor to the udder of the cow. The milking tube presses the teats gently like this and takes out the milk. It does not suck the milk. Milk flows to the collecting can through these tubes. Now the flow of milk is seen clearly through these transparent tubes. Hold the milking tubes pulled down gently like this once the milk flow recedes. This helps to take out leftover milk in the udder. Delay in detaching the milking tubes after milking is over will not create any problem. Blood will never come out as many innocent people suspect. Animal will take 2-3 days to adjust to this machine milking in its first calving. Later it will be a routine thing for the cow. Single person can handle milking with 2 cans. In bigger dairies, using 4 cans at a time needs 2 people. We can milk 8 cows with 10-12 litres of milk yield in 1 hour with 1 can. Technically, milking should be completed in 6-7 minutes from an animal with any amount of milk for maximum milk yield. This milking machine completes the task in specified time and hence, farmers record high milk yield up to 10%. Machine milking avoids any damage to the udder muscles. Clean and complete milking avoids the chance of mastitis also. Milk remains unspoiled up to 2-3 hours in machine milking due to cleanliness. However, big dairies store the milk in chilling kettle at 12-14 degrees centigrade till it is sent to the market. Clean the milking tubes and the can by sucking hot water after milking is over. Clean it again in cold water with soap powder. Any negligence in cleaning will lead to spoiling of milk on the next day. We find many brands in this motorized milking machine in the open market. However, D-Level machine from Sweden is very popular. This machine and the spare parts are highly durable. We need to replace the milking tube cluster once in 2 years which costs around 1200 rupees. Now this machine is common even in small dairies with 15-20 cows. Hand milking is seen even now in most of the buffalo dairies. However, this milking machine is equally suitable for buffaloes also. The manufacturer will provide cluster with bigger milking tubes for buffaloes. Compressor with one milking can set will cost rupees 60,000. Additional milking can sets cost rupees 25,000 each. Cost of high yielding cow or buffalo is 50-60,000 rupees now. Then for a farmer keeping 10-20 animals, this machine is definitely affordable. We can conclude that for timely and clean milking, this machine is very helpful. This plays a major role in the success of a dairy farm.