Over Wintering Strategies: New vineyard management practices
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j44qVNcKy3s
Science & Technology
 Canadian winters can be tough on wine grapevines. A single extreme cold snap can damage vines and reduce crop yields by 20 to 30 percent. When temperatures drop below minus 20 for an extended period the whole crop is at risk and it takes two years for a vine to recover amounting to a significant financial loss for growers and vintners. Karl Bogdanoff and his team at the Pacific Agri-Food Research Center in Summerland, British Columbia are working with grape growers to better protect vines against the deep freeze. In the past say about 30 years ago the wine industry was fairly small and also is based on winter hardy hybrid varieties that produce fairly medium quality wine. The wine industry here in British Columbia decided to focus primarily on quality and to do that they replant all their vineyards with premium vitus vinifera varieties such as Merlot, Cab-Peronc, Chardonnay, all those wine varieties that we all know and love. Vitus vinifera can tolerate some freezing but they are seriously tested when temperatures become record low temperatures and when we do get these really freezing temperatures grape buds are killed, vine tissue is damaged, the phloem or xylem or even the roots are damaged or the vine can be totally killed outright. It is a multi-disciplined initiative that is fully engaged with the industry. The team monitors temperatures and bud hardiness at many locations across the Okanagan and Simokamine valleys. Participating growers receive a bi-weekly bud hardiness report for major wine grape varieties. They use this information to assess the risk of winter injury before and during an arctic event to help them decide when to operate fans that draw warmer air into vineyards. Knowing bud damage levels also helps in deciding how much to prune. Last winter this vine was compromised. Its phloem and xylem cells were damaged. It wasn't completely girdled so this vine broke bud, sent out shoots and had some crops but when it got really hot this summer this vine totally collapsed and now is dead. Additionally, the research team collects data in several other current research projects that are looking at the effects on hardiness of rootstocks and varietal selections, irrigation practices, use of fans to mix air in the vineyards, amount of crop on the vines, ground cover between vine rows, disease, leaf removal and cluster positioning and how a plant hormone, one that improves grape colour is also contributing to bud hardiness. Anything that we can do to make the vines hardier, even two degrees, two, three degrees is huge and it's the difference between up to 50% damage to replanting crop loss and having a total successful year in the succeeding year. So it's really important for us to understand how we can help these vines weather these cold snaps crops that occur periodically and to develop new vineyard management practices that can improve the cold hardiness of a grapevine. Each summer the team's interim results are presented at the BC Wine Grape Council's Enology and Viticulture Trade Show. Final results will be made available to growers in 2019. For Canadian vintners, Smart Science ensures you can enjoy Canadian wines, room temperature or chilled. Today is an tender呀 MY shower so you can別 Scientist and other veterans, general health, local Impro줘 And here, high quality泉 variables in here must be found at the BC Wine Grape Council for a few years. Thank you for responding to Gr cabeza, growing up and a lot seen through dates. Cr Index ofatures are updated, during the November 2019. Fť case 15⁇ 종en Carji, sending off the topic broadcast-related compensation andar Leonardo Sky 버 Fahrenheitが составляетogerS podemos sprinkled on different occasions, not just a leben around the wildness of the forest. Thank you for upsell感 Uncle cats! K scout'sental feedback of sight and fire matters. This event now gettingas技 tamamen to the PetroP belangrijk ci-per ideas ahead of the goal it's to live to live by exploring a李箱 junto and Jum haben queremos?!