Growing A Bee Balm Plant + Violet Corn Plant In Grow A Garden
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J8kn_whup38
Gaming
 Check it out everyone. Welcome back to grow a garden and today we're gonna be doing a bunch of stuff And I'm gonna honestly say this right now. I record a full video But it crashed midway through so I lost everything I did But we're gonna recap with what I actually did in that video. First of all, we're gonna go to my base Which is right over here and we actually began growing Ourselves some bee balm actually two of them and at the same time we're also growing a new Suncoil and a bunch of violet corn Yeah, that's right We got a lot going on and one of them is actually looks sparkly sparkly, which is pretty awesome Sugar apples growing and ember lily Obviously we also did a couple of nectar shades, which we obviously know aren't exactly the best We've already been through that once or twice already But now we're back here today to continue what we're gonna do and hopefully we can get through it this time Okay, guys. I also want to show you this we have a lot of honey But remember to watch in the end subscribe like comment and share because my video crashed It'll be very helpful if you guys can actually do that because these videos are a lot of fun to make So let's get going and honestly This is pretty fitting of what happened last time you see that giant coconut tree up there There was a guy on the other server that literally have them all combined together. I wish I can show it to you I attempted to save the footage and it was no luck so For those that are wondering a bee balm costs this a crocus a lavender and honey and before my video clash I actually got a couple more honeys and lavender so we can plant these guys down here real quick and I can just throw a basic down there and just probably water them to make them grow really fast Just so that we can get ourselves something to do for this video. Okay, we're gonna be doing that guys All right, and I want to mention also I do have myself a master sprinkler I'm saving that for a future video and also we got ourselves a lot of seeds I'm gonna make that very clear. We got Enough seeds to last us for a long time and a lot of bamboo, which you're not gonna worry about But yeah, we got all of this here and I got more rose seeds I guess I didn't even know I had those and a cup of cocoa, but I want to go and actually plant these cocos right over here. This is where I'm gonna be planting all my um crazy crazy stuff, so we're gonna put one there and one right there and Now that we got all that we got our lavender We're gonna go and actually get ourselves another Bee ball, which is probably a really good idea right now I gotta say and have to make sure my computer is not overheating so we can craft another one of these and This is gonna cost me a little bit cuz I'm gonna speed this baby up We got that ready and now we're gonna grab ourselves. Wait. Did I really? Do I not have any more crocus left and I? No No, oh well wait hold on I Did all my crocus is gone well actually hold up can we fix that right now? Can we can we just get ourselves enough? Oh my gosh, can we get ourselves another seed? Because I think I uh made a mistake here guys. I want to get myself another seed None in stock none are in stock great. So we're gonna go to our packs and hope Okay, we do we have two of them watch this is the day that oh I got a lilac great wonderful Not what I was looking for give me that other flower pack. Let's open that baby up and inside we got ourselves Another lilac okay, that's not what I wanted Okay, we're gonna cancel that recipe we lost something out of that but whatever right guys I did waste my thing for that we also do have ourselves a couple Mutated spray chocolate or chocolate mutation sprays we could use that today But I rather not if you get what I mean, but we do have a lot of these so we're gonna go And we're gonna go and plant this Right here and oh by the way, I did get a pig in my other video Which if you guys did not know is pretty cool. I'm not gonna lie to you. Do we have another bee bomb? I'm just being dumb bee bomb We do have some we can sell Wait, why is all that pop up? Bee bomb So we could go and see now right now at five minutes into the video How much is this worth for the base? So let's see and now we're check the price Okay, how much is this worth? I almost literally sold it one 59 so it's not the best But honestly for the price you're paying it's still not that bad I want to sell you probably with good mutations you get a couple million off it not a billion boy I think that's still pretty good Not exactly what I was hoping for my mouse is not connecting with the game today I don't get what's going on, but now We can also check the violet corn all of it actually and we get ourselves a violet corn That's all sparkly sparkly That did not come out of a seat that came out of a normal seat back by the way is wanna throw that out there Okay, we got an eight Wow, these these are giant Okay, how much is the eight worth? Let's find out how much is this worth is corn worth it? Dude, wait, what are you so get these are a lot bigger than they're supposed to be but How much is this worth come on come on come on make me rich? Okay, okay Violet corn is worth it. How much is this worth? We're gonna check that one more time Yeah, no, I don't want to give this to you. Why are you walking it to me? I want to sell my inventory there we go What bam there we go? It's all gone There we go. We did all that Super duper awesome and now we got some more growing right now, which I am super excited to see what's gonna be next for those Because we're getting a nice price off these guys. I am not gonna lie to you But it's kind of sad that I lost all the footage cuz some crazy things happened and honestly, it's all blurry now But uh, so we can we get ourselves You know what? We're gonna do it I'm gonna spend the robux to try to get ourselves a pepper just because of what just happened I hate to do this, but we're gonna do it. I can't believe this is happening right now I bought more of these I can't believe my bank my bank account is being like drained from these Another violet sweet we can go plant that and we got a wannabe on it over there. I remember when I did that another crocus. Oh Yes We got another crocus, which I'm not going to plant though Uh, but we're gonna go back in here do this again skip another crocus. I don't want to crocus. I want myself Uh a pepper a violet corn is okay. Okay guys, it's actually worth more than the other corns So that is already a bonus robin all 10 of these a violet corn again I don't know if I want another violet corn. Come on. Come on. Be in my favor this time be in my favor Oh, oh, yeah, by the way, I did get some cocoa vines But we're gonna save that for another video because we're always gonna be doing the chocolate thing with that episode So another bamboo we can't put that out, but i'm pretty sure the bamboo is like the Like the normal bamboo and it's a one-time use Another succulent i'm gonna have an army of succulents at one point. You don't even know how many I got out of those All right, let's do this again. We got last pack And it was a succulent. Oh, wait, that was my last one. I joke. I kid I mess around there. We go There we go skip skip skip Uh, there we go. We got that and they got that boom Uh, okay, hold on boom boom and boom there we go Throw down another advance there throw down this there there we go Hopefully you guys will Surprise me Okay Hopefully you guys will make me like rich. I don't know we we we shall see what's going on I didn't realize I put out two of these but we did but yeah, we're gonna hopefully see something amazing Oh, okay that corn is already showing me that it's oh my gosh that corn is gonna be bigger than the other one Oh my gosh, it's gonna be so much bigger than the others Dude, I'm already okay. I'm already excited already excited b-bomb and violet corn We're growing those today Two for one sale for you guys. I hope you're excited for that Because I gotta say I am also excited about it I just also want to add if this seems a little disjointed today It's because I have to stop and go because my computer is melting right now If you guys want to help me not have my computer melt leave it a like and a comment below and sharing this around and even watching It still to the end will help me out and this great bush is gonna like mess with me guys So i'm seeing these here the tropical berry the pepper one Especially the pepper one the pepper one of them all Definitely looks like it's up to my it takes an hour to I can do it now And it'll be ready for the next video But I I do I really want to But the same time is I okay bamboos beanstalks I want something that's gonna work with um The other one I have because I want something crazy to happen So this is this works with cocoa, but does it work with that other seed? I have which I completely forgot the name of um Um, we got a lot of seeds here. It was the okay not corn Benboo no, no, no, no, no, no, it was a cocoa vine So does a cocoa vine work just like this so if I was to buy the pepper one Would it actually do what I wanted but it takes a master not even a godly so that's it has to be good, right? But we also have the flower one the stock one Maybe this will work. I am not sure but we need a mushroom for that and a bean we have all that actually But we got so much stuff here. I really want this down here, but we need a stupid sunflower. I can't believe it Okay, let's go in here real quick. Uh I want to trade. Let's see. Do you have another seed pack for me? No, you do not But let's hope we get lucky with the seeds today. It's not like I need them anymore But yeah, I spent robux just to make sure that I can get you guys a decent video for once Okay, so here we go doing this again. Give me Please these replacements. No, okay. Well that video I lost 90 of what I had so Whatever who cares right and you guys. Whoa, baby Yo, dude, why what what what is going on? Where where are you coming from? Are you going from there? Dude, okay. I mean, okay. I made a boo-boo I made a big boo-boo here guys. Oh, we're where we got a problem You some coil are tiny, but we're gonna take you but my corn though My corn is looking beautiful. Oh Man, do you guys love corn because I know I do I know I love corn Okay, that is looking good. This over here is a little it's like clustered, but we'll worry about that later Oh, man, you're looking so much better than already than the other ones. I had dude dude. Look at this look at this Can I actually Like is it not you are you not fully grown? That is literally coming off this guy right here off the sugar apple one. I'm pretty sure And then over here we got a lone coconut tree just growing Not coconut a high fruit growing. Yeah, look at this It's not it's not even fully grown yet. It's still growing It is it still growing. I am very confused. What's going on over here. Are you the cocoa plant? I can't remember what I placed over here anymore There's doing everything on its own and all this is frozen. I want to get rid of all of these just because oh Everything got restocked too awesome. That's what I was hoping for Come on. Come here. All of you. Oh Yeah There we go. There we go. Not all of them, but let's go. Let's sell it. Let's make some bank I want to sell my inventory. Goodbye inventory. We make nine mil out of that. It doesn't make What Don't do what oh, this is the honeysuckle Look at that. I got a plant. I gotta get a honeysuckle. How much does it cost for a honeysuckle? I can set it up now for the next video, right? Let's see honey Suckle Oh, that's right a pink lily in a Do What do you want to say? Lily Okay, we got that but do we have the other one? We do not have the other one, but Where do I get the other one? Are you in stock? I can't remember there's like Let's go over here. Okay. No, no, no, no, no, okay. I guess I don't have that one Unless I spelt it wrong, but I don't think I did Let's go see let's go back into this and see Let's see we need the purple. It's purple. It's purple. It's purple purple I type in purple Purple Okay, we can't get one of those right now. Can we? Maybe we can get a next video, but it costs 80 Yeah, well, that's a lot That is a lot. Okay. What about you? Let's see. I want to trade. Let's see what you got Nothing great like the beast home is a literally about to happen. So I won't be surprised Show me gear show me gear show me gear show me gear Show me gear show me gear show me. Yeah, give me that advanced There we go made up slightly for what I made boom can bring you back here bring me back here Here we go Wow These guys aren't growing as big as I was hoping for but we do have my whoa corn corn Are you? Okay, that one right there is looking pretty big I am excited But guys we're ending the video here today. We grew plenty of stuff. We grew some violet corn We grew some bee balm and now you know how much they're actually worth But thank you all for watching and thank you all for being here We saved a video that actually crashed kind of sort of not really but thank you all for being here until next time until we meet again Thank you again, and if you made it to the end, you're awesome. You're amazing. You're super duper cool You're supporting my channel after the crash. So thank you all and bye