Pasture Management #989 (Air Date 3-19-17)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jBniQ9TF5UA
Education
 Do you treat your pasture ground just like you treat your cropland? Yeah, I don't think so. Not many people do. But just think about this. If you treated your pasture ground just like that cropland, I'll bet you you could raise 50% more, maybe even 100% more grass each and every year. It's a big deal. Start thinking about your pasture just like a crop. How do I increase grass production? That's our topic now. When you think about crop management, it really starts with managing the soil. And it's the same thing out in pastures. We recommend a good soil testing program in your pastures. Now, you may say, wait a second, soil testing in the pastures? How do I do this or how often should I be doing this? I would look at it just like you do with your farm fields. You know, we're going to face a lot of the same problems because it's the same soil that you've got out in your fields. So, look at a grid soil sampling program to be begin with. Maybe you say, I'm going to go five acre grids this time. That's fine. It's a lot better than what's been happening out in that pasture ground. And what you'll see real quickly is you may have some pH issues out there in addition to some nutrient issues. If you do, that may require liming in low pH soils. I know a number of farmers and ranchers in the state of Iowa that have been liming their pasture ground just like they lime their fields to try to bring that pH up and they've seen some market improvement in grass production. The big thing is to get a complete soil test. You want to look not only at N, P, and K, but also at your base saturation test, your soil pH, sulfur, calcium, even the micronutrients. Take a look at all these things. You just don't know what could be impacting that grass production unless you get a good test. Okay, the next thing, as you get that soil fertility program working out in your pastures, is to work on your grazing management. Rotational grazing is a practice that's being used across the country. Many of the top producers are sectioning off parts of the pasture so the cattle can only graze a certain area in the pasture. Then, as soon as that area gets grazed down enough, they'll move to the next area and completely protect the area that was just grazed. That way it allows for maximum regrowth and it keeps the cattle into some lush grass so they're going to see maximum gains as they've got a big full growth area to work on. Now, when you think about weed control and other things that you may need to be doing out in your pasture, when you've got cattle off those areas, that's a great time to get those things accomplished. One of the other things I wanted to cover is a product called Rise Up Smart Grass. It's gibberellic acid. And what that does is it increases overall growth in the plant. Now, it won't necessarily increase grain and where I'm going with this is, hey, gibberellic acid can get used in most any grass crop like corn or wheat for example. Well, you'll get more tonnage out there. Will you really get more yield? Maybe not. But you think about grass production, what are we after here? We're not after seed, we're after overall tonnage. We want more grass in general. What gibberellic acid does is it increases that growth. But adding more gibberellic acid is only important in cooler weather. Gibberellic acid naturally occurs in the plant at pretty high levels when it's warm. So, our recommendation is to use products like Rise Up Smart Grass early in the spring and late in the fall. When the temperatures are in that 50 degree kind of range and you say, ah, my grass isn't growing very well, it's not growing very quickly, just do some side-by-sides. You'll see real fast adding gibberellic acid to your pasture ground in the spring and the fall can really pay. One other spring and fall practice that we really like is weed control. When you're out in a pasture and you look and see where cattle are grazing, for example, a lot of times they'll graze right around those things. Thistles are right around those other problem weeds. Why not eliminate them? Each pound of weed growth out in your pasture is eliminating at least two pounds, if not more, of grass growth. So, by eliminating all these problem weeds, you're going to see more grass automatically filling in in those areas. So, get the weeds under control. Start in the spring and then follow back up in the fall as well. Well, you might not need to follow back up in the fall if you do a great job in the spring. But the big thing is, you've got to scout. You've got to look. Just like in your crop fields, do you have weeds or not? And if so, what weeds are there? I mean, are you going to need just some 2,4-D? Do you need some Tordon? Maybe Milestone's the product. Maybe it's Chaparral. It just depends on your situation. So, let's talk real quick about where each of these products fit. Alright, let's talk specific weeds, Brian. Leafy spurge, what do you do? Tordon. Tordon's the best product. Thistles? Milestone, but Tordon can be really good, too. What about woody species, like buck brush, for example? Well, you could just run 2,4-D with crop oil. I like Tordon, probably the best on a lot of woody species, but Chaparral is excellent on a lot of them, too. Okay, how about just some annual broadleaf weeds that pop up? Well, 2,4-D is a nice choice. But, see, I think a lot of people are forgetting, alright, if there are so many Xtend beans planted in the United States this coming year, maybe a guy should go to dicamba. That's what we've done on our farm. On our pasture ground, we've sprayed dicamba for the last couple years when we've been raising Xtend beans, because we don't have to worry about the off-target movement at all. So, I'd take a real hard look, if all you have is annuals, at using some Banville Clarity or some type of dicamba. How about two last things, Bran? Insects and diseases. Alright, fortunately, we don't typically have major insect problems out there, but there are some products that could be used. Just check the label in your area, but it could be something like Malathion or 7. A lot of times, the cheap pyrethroids can't be used while you're grazing, but maybe they can with a certain rotational restriction, or pre-harvest interval, you know, however you want to look at that. Anyway, the other thing is, you mentioned diseases. Most farmers are not spraying anything for disease out there, but if you do happen to have some diseases, take a look. You could also try, if it's labeled, again, maybe some fungicide, just to see if you get some plant health benefits out of it. Just something to experiment with, and certainly you've got to look at, again, what are the grazing rotational restrictions. But, hey, insects and diseases, just other things you need to scout for out in your pasture. And speaking about trials in pasture, there's one interesting one that I've seen over the last few years, guys that have tried just strips of micronutrient applications out in the pasture. Just a blended micro-product to see what kind of, what happens in terms of growth. Cattle go to those strips first to graze. The grass is better. It tastes better for them. Well, maybe, maybe, but that's where we come back to. Test your soil. Maybe you need those micronutrients, maybe you don't. It all starts with a good soil test. All we're trying to say today is start managing your pasture like you'd manage your crop count. You don't have to spend a zillion dollars, but you at least need to do something more than you're doing today, and I'll bet you you can increase that grass production dramatically. You know, in many areas, there's not as much for pasture acres as there used to be. So, we've got to manage them a little more intensely to get more grass growth, more production for our cattle, and to make more profit at the end of the season. Now, one thing you definitely need to do is control our Weed of the Week. Can you identify this week's weed?