Paddock rotation/set up also quick and inexpensive hack to split paddocks to allow for quick shifts
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jcuE29siVx4
Education
 hey guys it's Wayne with family acreage farms just doing another rotation with the calves just want to show you that they ate really well over there they've been on an acre for four days or they're almost finishing up a fourth day now they're about to come over here they've been you can see all the little vines over there's tons of these little vines they're eating the tar out of them how the sodium bicarb look is it empty okay so they've been doing that to help with their room in the mineral feeder but I'll show y'all we're just gonna open them up let them come on over and then I want to show you the little rig we have for for separating the paddocks that separating this acre into thirds we'll let you see that and kind of kind of explain how it works and the calves are doing great with it we're letting them go get a new one-third every day all right so here we go let's open them up sorry if you hear any wind blowing through my ear trying to keep it quiet they're ready I saw some of those barn swallows flying through here so that's good hopefully they're getting some of the flies for these poor guys all right calves get in there new section there's patches coming in back up so we already have this acre section of watch them don't go through there and eat those vines one of the first things they get they get them already yep they love those vines look at them go be careful on those rocks look at the calves they're all in those rocks don't push them too hard babe you can zoom in instead that's what that little there's a little thing on the side on the right side you can go up and down on it right there you go that's your zoomer yeah they are browsers man they love those vines good I don't they can eat all they want yeah so this here was a washout and it was just full of just junk trees I mean like whatever these little holly is it's like leaves of three but I mean and I'm pretty and it's they're yellow when they're broken like that I don't like those things they're really spiky too tons of little mesquites through here and this just junk like crazy through here and so I just we plowed it I just went right through with this skid steer knocked it all down put it into a brush pile you see a big old brush pile over there and uh so it's growing up get some grass growing through here actually make it into a something they can graze on I'm gonna go this way and we're gonna set up that new paddock okay so let's head over this way go and get right here today amateur of So yeah, that's what you added for sodium bicarb Yeah, they've been hitting that calcium I don't think they need anymore I think they got the bottom yet That's good. They really don't hit the A, D, and E But they're excited. That's C90 They're hitting still I need to turn it this way I'll get some more And then more C90 What is that? Magnesium? They look like they knocked that down a little bit What do you think? They don't need it And then that BioFoss And this is K They took a big chunk out of that right there That's good They're getting some good nutrients in I mean Nutrients come from the plant Let's go this way and put up this next one So, yeah, so if you look at this I just want to show So we have an acre stripped out We're gonna put an acre through here The one end is over there About a hundred feet that way And then this is the other end right here So, and this little fence here I've shown you this before So we separate them into one third Because we only have nine Sorry, I keep saying nine Seven calves So we have seven calves that are being here for a day We make them eat in here And poop in here and pee in here for a day They're fine They aren't losing any body composition They're doing really well with it And so They'll be perfectly happy with this I'm gonna switch this around I don't like this here sitting this way I like this here to be part of the park boat Holding it up So Take that out of there And now I gotta get it to face that way So hook him on there Now this here Cause it's gonna pull So you want the O'Brien stick? That O'Brien Whenever that's in there Whenever that's in there I like it to have that little leg On the bottom facing this way Okay Well that's fine Because it was facing that way Because this is where we had the other one Right? So we're gonna stick this one in the ground here Come on O'Brien Work with me here Tryna get it in a rock Come on Nice and holy Try that spot that it was in I guess There you go Stomp that down So it has something to hold it up a little more Cause this is gonna be a little tight That way That has a little extra pull I want that to go that way So It's downhill So we'll put it on this side So it goes that way There we go Perfect Now we're gonna set this up down here That was not a thought But it shouldn't be Did you look down at that green? Did you see green on the other one? Okay So this This here Is our little Makeshift wind area Tryna get it all around Looks like somebody got a little extra It works there I have to do Hang on There we go There we go One was too long I guess We're going to get the other Now the other one It's going to get the other Put this and strap down See it We're going to go around So many different times Hold it there We're really just coming off of it now We're really should be able to go together now That's part of the key Making sure we're the same down length Get down Oh no It works good whenever they're in the same length But when they're not Not so good Let it now We're kind of there together So let's go Hold it like that We're going to go back this way If you can go towards the fancy one You have to go around I'm going to go around So this is how we're doing I think another one with a bucket I'm going to drive But it's going to be easy to pop through a bucket We're going to do that next To be able to To be able to line them up better And just use a bucket as a reel for itself Especially once we get the sheep out here And I start trying to get more lines Like three lines in the line So the sheep don't cross it You've got to get that far away from me So we're halfway about Doesn't work too well with these things getting stuck to themselves aren't you? I'm going to get the foil So I put the ones in the lines Turn my head away from the wind We'll put this in the bad boys So you ain't gonna go to the same You there yet? You there yet? You should stay there I'm going to bring this this way All right You should stay there I'm going to bring this this way All right You got that way down You follow me? You can fix that Go down here We'll go to this side Come on in Come this way We're not going to this way We're going to the next one All right Can you make it tight? We're going to get this stuff on us There we go You can walk it out I can cut this out I can pass forward to it I'll go around here I'll go around this way I'll go around this way I'll go around this way I'll go around this way I'll go around this I'll go around this way We're gonna run this way I'm gonna go around this way So this is where I'm going to need another What you call it Here I took it off I'm gonna be on the same way Alright Let it come through so that I'm gonna be the same way Which one do you pick on this one? There you go Good? You're not going to go with this one. I'm going to go with this one. There you go. Good. Okay, I can grab one from you. Which one do you want me to give me? There you go. I'll take that one. I'm going to have to put a yellow poster. There's no brides on the tractor right on the floor. I'll get. We can make it long enough. There's no butcher to the fifth yet. There's butcher on the yellow post only. We'll fix that in a second. I've got to get no brides. Then I said, hey, I'm Quitta. I We're not wearing shoes because we're at a kid's birthday party recently So once again This is the wrong way just because we had to face the other way for the other side, right? We want it that way so There we go facing the right way now and now what you do come watch this Did you hook it underneath like that? So look look it under here like that underneath it and then through the yellow So now it's stuck there and it's definitely on there and then I lean it back a little bit and I'll step her in If I can get it in and not hit a damn rock There we go pretty good good enough all right, so That's our separator this is so there's an acre down or about a third over there About a third here and about a third there and so what they're gonna be in that one for a day Then they come and we allow them to have this one and that one for a day And then when they come and open this one they have this one and that one for today That's three days and then the fourth day They have the whole thing so they're here for about three to four days We're just kind of watch it, but there's a whole lot they can go through here and eat something And I'm in on the fourth day we move them to the next one and set this up again. It's pretty easy and This stuff is cheap right here really really cheap wire to put across I wouldn't mind having better stuff But I just cut it in half so I could do that and this is for small acreage now if I had you know 500 acres and 100 cows on there and I'm rotating them would be a whole different game thing I'd have to give them way more than a third of an acre But this is how you do it some small acreage and we'll have to see how to play this You got to watch it when we have all the lambs out here because those lambs they see they're not eating this stuff right here Whatever this is They're not eating it Not that one this one so you can see it all over there. They don't even touch it I'm sure I could google it and look it up, but they don't like it. They're not gonna eat it. I'm guessing those yellow flowers Maybe what this is Looks like that's what's coming out of it. Yeah, so whatever these yellow flowers are They don't like it And they just leave it behind and so the sheep they'll eat just about anything You just got to be careful not to make them poison himself or whatever we have out here But they can live off of something that what cow would starve so And they're not starving there Just gotta watch it because if the sheep were on here and we did that for four days with the sheep and the cows they may knock it down so bad It would just be dirt They would turn it everything that dirt they would just turn it into desert so you gotta we gotta have to move them a little faster or give Them a little more acreage Okay, that's it. Thank you all for watching. Please like subscribe and share and I'll fast-forward through all the boring stuff