Ray Moses - The Science of Making Hay
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JfQ-wekRB6Q
Entertainment
 Music Got my Little Halls Chalmers tractor and my bi-fold wheel rake and after I cut the hay it lays in the field flat like what you see down here on the ground there's a little bit of un-rake area and bring this hay rake out in the field and take these rows that were cut and that rake flips the rows over so that the underside of the grass is now exposed to the sun so that that dries and it also merges it up into a row that's small enough that the hay baler can pick it up and this is what we call a wind row so I rake that to help the underside of the row dry so you just flip it over and I also merged it together so that when I come in here later this afternoon with the hay baler it'll pick it up and bale it you know what I'm doing here is that now I rake when there's a little bit of dew on the ground so that right here the leaves of the alfalfa and the grasses don't all fall off they get too dry and brittle and as you move them you lose all that leaf and you can lose you know easily 20-30% of your biomass that you're trying to get into a bale so right now then I have to wait for a couple hours for it to dry there's still a little bit of drying still waiting for the dew last night's dew to come off and it's all going to depend on if we get enough sun today forecast kind of changed a little bit you see we got pretty cloudy skies number one thing on drying hay is the amount of sunlight and the humidity so we're forecasted at pretty low relative humidity we want to be usually below 50% anything 55 or greater percent that's a real hot monkey day high dew point, came in a hay level so if everything goes right I'll be here this afternoon baling hay mobility road so we're also at this side-up time and we'll נד celebrate little shadow that's roughly 5,000 people we got all this summer Similar from the royal feelings that they were étanted and the mother burnt by something that Раз SHE LA kita So you're round baling today. Yeah, I was going to square bale, but the weather forecast kind of closed in on me. Today we might have sprinkles. As it was, we got a little bit of rain already. A few sprinkles didn't shut down, but I didn't have time to square bale. Nice thing as a round baler, you can cover a lot of ground really quick. And I was able to bale really fast and try to get it done. I was able to bale really fast and try to get it done. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Our, our love