CONCRETE SIDING on a COOP | Chicken Coop PART - 7
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jG_8wIY-VUw
Entertainment
 Howdy friends, welcome back to the building of our homestead for the chicken coop. I think I've decided it's probably going to be a chicken palace build. Today we'll focus on putting up the wire mesh on the windows and the tops and I think if we work hard enough we could probably get the siding up. Let's get started, come along. So on this coop as you may have noticed it's going to be kind of an open design. A lot of the research I've done says that the open coops are kind of work a little bit better especially because we live in a very warm climate. Rarely do we get freezing and if we do have you know some freezing weather coming up we can just put some tarps over the front but we are going to do wire mesh along the top and the sides up in there. The research that I've been doing says that ventilation is key. Ventilate, ventilate, ventilate and the more ventilation you have the drier it's going to be and the healthier your chickens will be. I guess a moist, damp chicken area is not really very good. We are going to put siding here just to keep any critters, or anything that might want to try and get in there. Give them a harder time. And then also the wall that we built extends a little bit past the entry and that's going to be to kind of help the wind from whipping in and around. Just wanted to give you an overview on why we're doing more of an open style instead of just a sealed in tight type. But yeah, let's cut some wire and get that up. Min So so Let's go. Let's go. You've got to be careful when you're cutting this wire at an angle. Let's see if it'll focus. Those points are razor sharp. Needle sharp. It got me already. Let's go. Alright. Finally, we get to the siding portion of the chicken coop. I went with concrete siding. 4x8 sheet of hardy board is what it's called around here. Grooved. It's cheaper that way for some reason. The advantages of running concrete siding is it's not going to rot like wood siding. One disadvantage though, it doesn't have much sheer value to it. So it's brittle. So it's not going to... If the building moves too much, it does have the chance of breaking. So when we move it, which it's going to be moved, I'm going to have to take a couple precautions to make sure it doesn't break too easily. But like I said, it's not going to rot. Especially up against the elements that it's going to have here with the chickens and their business and stuff inside there. But it's comparable to a wood siding in cost. But you got your advantages either way. So that's what I'm going to do. But first, let's prep the wall for it to make it a little bit easier. It is extremely heavy. So yeah. So I want to have this siding hang down below the floor. So I made a mark below the flooring, an inch and a half. And I'm putting in this ledger board. And it'll hold the siding. I'm doing this alone. And that's really the easiest way to do it by yourself. Even if you're using wood or other things like that. So I'll just put this on. Put a screw on one side. And then level that across. I guess another thing I should mention is it's really dusty. MightyVii déserts a map. EdgeVai viene rod. EdgeVai vieneapers. And gy整 day dawn. Good point now. It's just the home of gy preferences. It will get to будет aktion 같아. Man Campus 4 seconds is okay so so got the siding on the sides and then the back before i finish up the back upper part i wanted to show you what i got going on here what i did is i had an old above ground pool that was uh holy had wasn't really doing much pooling and i cut cut a section off of it and put it over the nesting boxes here and then once i get the siding on i'm also going to do siding here we'll put a piece of plywood over this and then with some hinges but this should keep this area dried off and looking fresh pretty much all i did was just put some roofing nails in right there basically that's all it's doing and then overlap my siding oh it looks about three inches and i'm not putting any nails down here because i want to keep the uh unholy uh so yeah also on the side we'll put siding on that little section right there and then hopefully get some trim going down and it'll cover up that gap there but yeah that's what's going on in the back time to get back and putting siding onポッk What does the chicken say? No. What does the chicken say? You like the chicken house? Yeah. I love it. You love it? I love it right here, right here. I love it right here.