Family Growing 90% of Their Food on an Impressive Permaculture Homestead
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jl2Ma_heuLA
Howto & Style
 Music We've been growing our food for the last three years on 2.3 acres. And we've reached about 90% of all the food that we eat all year. We grow maybe 150 different vegetables and fruits, and maybe 60 or 70 of them grow like crazy, and those are our staples. We grow our food using permaculture, and essentially permaculture is growing your food within nature with biodiversity. And we do this because it keeps us healthy and we keep the nature around us healthy. The passion to grow our own food comes from the fact that we really like to eat. But we like to eat good food, and with different kinds of vitamins, different kinds of elements for us. So food is joy. What I love about the homestead is that we create a kind of paradise. And for me, it's like transforming the sun in something good, and after that you share it with your family and with the community. And I feel more grounded, and I think that my life has a purpose because I do that. I retired, but before coming here I was a vice principal in schools for about 11 years, and before that I was a teacher for many, many years. And one thing I loved to do with my students was gardening with them and showing them how to grow their own food, and doing that since the 90s. I work two days per week in schools, and all the days of the week I'm just working on the property because it's a lot of job to produce your food. And before that I was a teacher, and I worked one year as a principal of school. We met while she was a principal, and very quickly we realized that we both had very similar visions. We wanted to do permaculture, we wanted to garden guided by nature, and we wanted to produce all of our food that we eat all year for the whole family. We were ready to go anywhere. We looked basically everywhere in Southern Ontario, south of the Canadian Shield, for a place to do our project. And we found this place in 2019, and so we've been here for three and a half years. We found this place in the city of the United States. Yeah, so when we started it was a nice green grass lawn, and nothing on it. But it was very challenging because the forest was dying, there was a lot of water everywhere. It was like a nightmare. So the nightmare that Magalie refers to is the fact that much of the property was unnaturally underwater. And so by installing a simple, correctly done drainage, you know, we solved the problem. But it was a lot of work, and it was work by hand, work with shovel, work with wheelbills and so on. In the meantime, we started right away in an area where we could garden, where we didn't have to do too much transformation, where we could just lay down some cardboard and put some earth on top. And we realized that we were able to produce most of the food that we eat in a year, in what we considered a small area, in basically 400 square meters. So we are in the front yard of the property. So we grow main of our food from the sun garden. You can see it in the back. So many fruits are here in the orchard. In the beginning when we came here, we think that we need more space than that to grow our food for, you know, 12 months. But we realized that only the sun gardens can give us so much food. And we have 15 other gardens around the property. So here's some of the stuff we got today. This is some mint that we're just going to hang, hang and dry. Use that later. Maybe make some mint jelly out of it. This is some Malabar spinach, which I'm going to put in water in a few minutes. So I'm going to keep it in here. And some basil, which I'm also going to put in water. So I'm going to keep all of these in here. And then some big cucumbers that got away from me. Very ripe, so we're going to eat them quickly. There are three big ones here. And some green cucumbers. And we also got a whole bunch of these Caribbean cucumbers. These little ones, they're prickly, but you can eat them raw like this. They're delicious. A whole bunch of peppers. Some red ones too. And this corn, we're probably going to eat it this afternoon. These beets, I'm going to cut them. Cut them off the leaves. The leaves that are nice, we're going to keep to eat. And the beets I'm going to wash, wrap them in a damp towel, put them in the fridge. They'll last a month at least in the fridge. If we have too much for a month, then we'll freeze the rest or make pickles out of the rest or something like that. These are just going to go on the counter for now, these squash. We've also got a whole bunch of elderberry, which I'm going to freeze because I'm not ready to make jam out of it yet. So when I got a whole bunch, probably two, three buckets like this full, that's what I'll make the jam out of it. Some carrots, which I'm going to do the same thing as the beets, wash them, wrap them in a towel, put them in the fridge. I put the potatoes one layer deep in the box and they can stay in the garage up on the shelves all winter. Yeah, they'll last all year. Yeah, you don't wash them, just one layer thick. And actually, first, they have to dry. They just can't be exposed to sunlight because they'll turn green and then they won't be any good to eat. If we harvested this much food every day all through the season, we'd have way too much. Now, sometimes we do have more than we need. Like, for instance, last fall we had tons of tomatoes, thousands of them. And so we gave a lot of them to the food bank. And we gave also a bunch of tomatoes to some families in need. We like to be able to share the harvest, not share it only with nature, but share it with other people. We don't really need to buy any vegetables, but I like milk and cheese and yogurt. We don't have animals, so we still buy that. But anything that can be grown, we grow. And for instance, we're growing our grains, but we haven't completely transitioned over. We do grow some wheat, but the thing we grow a lot of is sorghum. And so what we're experimenting with this year is we're going to start using 50% sorghum and 50% bought flour, let's say, in the bread and cakes that we make. But it's been sort of working up. Two out of the four people in our family don't even eat any meat, and so we want to try and grow our protein. And so we grow our beans and peas. This year we started growing hemp for the seed. We can make our milk out of that. And also there's protein in grains as well. And so we grow wheat, barley, oats, sorghum, rice. And we also eat wild foods. So I collect plantain seeds, curly dock seed. We collect mushrooms as well. We have bolets growing on our property. And now as for vitamins and minerals and so on, we have such a wide variety of plants we grow. And we make sure that we go for all those really deep, rich colors. What is really important when you do permaculture, it's how to deal with the abundance. So you need to transform it. So I made a lot of research to know exactly what can I do. So usually we dry food and we dry food with a machine to dry food very fast. We freezing, we canning and we fermenting. So all the different ways. Sometimes when it's the huge period of harvest, I can stay in the kitchen maybe five hours. The kids help. But sometimes it's so much and you have to transform it. And when I transform it, I know everything. I know what is in the freezer. I can plan what we eat, the meal, etc, etc. And normally after that, in the middle of November, I say, everything is full. Everything is organized. And we stay like that until the next April or May. So normally actually we have 90% of our food come from the garden. And we go to the supermarket and sometimes it's $40 per week for a family of four. $15 Canadian dollars. So this drawing, it's all the property from the wall to the back here. So I just draw that for people who want to know exactly what's going on on this property. This is sort of like where the main garden is. It's very much a prairie habitat. And then of course we have the stream here. And then we have woodland, woodland, and then this is a wet forest back here. And then of course we have the water all coming through here with ponds and so on. So we have a lot of water on our property and we keep that water. We use that water. We don't use anything artificial. So it's all just planted. And then we put our compost on that. And we try and make the garden a little bit difficult for the animals to get in. Using different, you know, like with raspberries and rose bushes and stuff. But we plant extra. The things that the animals like outside. Easy access. So that they go there first. I'd like to talk a little bit about how we do our gardening. These cabbages we put in as sort of as an afterthought. We didn't put anything else with them. There aren't any companion plants. They're just all alone. And so if you have a good look at them, you'll see that they're very much eaten up by bugs and so on. But I mean, they're still all right. But really they don't look very happy. Now we're going to walk over to some other cabbage. Which basically have all the same conditions as those ones. With one important difference. As you can see, these are very pristine. The difference is these cabbages are surrounded by other plants. This is millet. This is kohlrabi. We have some carrots in behind here. Some yarrow. This is a cherry tree. So all these plants help each other out. It makes it more difficult for the bugs and so on to find them. So this is how we garden. We use biodiversity. And we mix everything up. The philosophy of sharing is really important. Our goal is to share the knowledge of how you can produce your own food. How you can after that share it. And how you can just reduce the price of the grocery. Yeah, so we've started a YouTube channel. Willows Green Permaculture. We also have our website. WillowsGreenPermaculture.com I like to share this knowledge. Because I believe that a lot of people think they don't have a green thumb. But I think everybody's capable. I think these skills are inside all of us. Because, you know, we lived for millennia like this. Everybody. And so it's inside all of us. When I'm out there, I feel like a five-year-old kid. Who is just like surrounded by all their favorite toys. So yes, it's work, but it's fun. I'm basically out there every day. Am I out there to exhaustion every day? Maybe the first year. But it's not necessarily a pace that you can keep forever. And so every year now I'm simplifying things. And it's working. The most stressful things for me in the project was to manage how much energy I can spend each day without having pain in my body. Because I was doing too much. It depends on the season. In March, you have to clean up the land. So maybe sometimes it will be six or seven hours per day. And after that, early spring, approximately the same thing. So it was a curve of learning. So right now I know exactly what are my limits. And when I have to ask for help. For me, the challenges, you know, at the beginning, sometimes the animals would take a bit more than we hoped. But it was a learning curve. And there really is a solution to all the problems that you can have. And the best way is the simplest way. Challenges are opportunities. And then when you've solved them, it feels good. Life is full of wonder. And it's living that wonder every day. It's something I always wanted to do. And to see it succeed is very satisfying. Because I had never done it on this scale. And thinking, wow, we did it. Subscribe to Exploring Alternatives and check out our playlists for more stories like this. You can also follow Willows Green Permaculture on YouTube and on their website. Thanks for watching.