The 100-Hour Weather & Climate Livestream Part 6
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jNE_4IT0Xyo
Education
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good, very early morning to people on the West Coast. And good day to everybody else joining us from wherever you are. We're so happy to have you here. And we are now entering the 43rd hour of our 100 hours of live stream for weather and climate. It's a great place to be. It's a great place to learn a lot about the science that is just, maybe I'm biased, but the best science out there ever. And why are we here? Well, we're here to be together, to have fun, to learn a lot. But we're also here to celebrate decades of improvements, decades of progress in providing forecasts that are absolutely necessary for people everywhere in the globe. Weather forecasts and climate forecasts that let us know what's coming from, is it going to rain on our birthday party to, you know, am I going to be able to have flood insurance from my home? How are we able to get these forecasts? Well, we have developed the science over decades to be able to go from the very first weather forecast in the 50s, where we had just one layer of the atmosphere. We were trying to figure out what's happening at 500 millibar in the atmosphere. Do we have a low? Do we have a high, a ridge or a trough? And now we can figure out if there's a tornado warning coming our way. It's been an incredible journey. And this journey has been funded for the most part by the American taxpayers and by the visionary idea that the public has to support everything that is important for the benefit of society. And so not only the people who can afford a weather forecast can have it, but it's public. And the US has really been a leader in putting together both the observations and the modeling that are absolutely crucial for this, for this progress to keep going. Now, it's right now though, this funding is under threat. It often happens that, you know, there's some readjustment and we refocus and we move priorities from one area of research to another. That's absolutely fine. But right now what we're seeing is the operational structure of weather forecasting being bubble, where we don't have enough people to send out weather balloons and our forecast suffers for that. And we also see very, very draconian cuts proposed. So we are coming together to make the case to the American public and through them to the people in Congress who have the ability to support our research and support our climate and weather forecast, that this is not a time to cut. This is a time to support our work. So if you are here, we ask you to please support this effort. Call your representative, go to wclivestream.com. It will get you to a place where you can get the numbers to your representatives and senators and let them know why you think it's important to support our work. In the meanwhile, also like our live stream, share it, subscribe. Let's get the word out. Let's make sure that this becomes a news item that everybody can see on their on their when they open up their phone right next to the weather forecast that I'm sure going to check. So thank you, everybody, for being here. We have another great hour or two coming our way. I'm going to be your host for two hours here. And it is a great pleasure to introduce our next host, Carly Phillips. She is working with the Union of Concerned Scientists. So we just heard from Delta. Now we are hearing from Carly. And her role in the Union for Concerned Scientists is within the Science Hub for Climate Litigation. So she provides scientific support to legal team, conducts research and trains scientists to work at the nexus of science and law. So we are going into more disciplinary work. This field expands from pure science to a lot of interdisciplinary work, which makes it even more exciting. And but her scientific expertise is in wildfire and climate change, biogeochemistry and attribution science. And so today she's going to talk to us about wildfires. So Carly, take it away. And I'm going to be looking forward to comments in the chat. Let us know what you think as Carly speaks. Awesome. Thank you so much. Yeah, my name is Carly Phillips. I'm excited to be here with you all today and talk about the science of wildfires and climate change and how interrelated they are. And I think for folks who've been paying attention to the news, to the world recently, it's pretty clear that we're in a pretty dangerous situation when it comes to wildfires. While we know that wildfires are a natural part of lots of ecosystems across the world and across North America, human activity and specifically climate change have modified just about every aspect of wildfire regimes from when fires occur, for how long during a given year or how severely those fires burn amongst others. The word megafire was once how we described the largest and most devastating fires, those that burned over 100,000 acres. But now we actually have a new word gigafire to describe those that burn over a million acres, like the 2020 August complex fire in California that burned an area that was more than three times the size of Los Angeles. And so to put this in perspective in terms of the national picture, you can look at these are this is total burned area in a given year, you have millions of acres burned on the y axis and on the x axis you have years and you can see a pattern of high variability but also one that is that is increasing. And that is true in so many parts of the world. In California, seven of the 10 largest fires in state history have occurred in the last five years, and again, by almost any metric fire size fire severity length of season wildfires are getting worse. And the consequences of this are pretty alarming. We know that smoke exposure is a really serious public health issue that's been linked to things like preterm birth or premature death, and the effects aren't isolated to where the fire is they're not localized they spread. I live on the East Coast and in 2023 smoke from the Canadian wildfires turned skies orange in New York City, in New England and across areas in the Midwest it was a real impact. And I know you know kids weren't allowed to go outside during recess there were there were concrete impacts that came along with these wildfires. And we know that wildfires can also destroy habitat and create habitat with consequences for biodiversity. As they burn into areas that are adapted for low severity fire if a high severity fire can burn through that there are challenges with ecosystem recovery where perhaps trees won't regenerate. And in some cases the ecosystem will transition from being a forest to being a grassland as one example. Wildfires can also dramatically alter stream flow and heighten the risk of mudslides and other debris flows. So in an unburned ecosystem the roots of plants and trees are absorbing water and stabilizing the soil. And then when an area burns at high severity, which could kill more than 90% of the vegetation, the stabilizing effects are gone, which means more water, more water runs off through the ecosystem and loose soil can go with that. And burn soil can also be water repellent. And so that means that there's a higher risk of flash floods, mudslides, debris flows, as well as hazardous situations on roads and infrastructure damage. And while wildfires are made worse by climate change, they also drive climate change because they release huge quantities of carbon as greenhouse gas emissions. The carbon that's stored in trees and shrubs and also soils and a forgotten pool often of carbon that took decades. And in some cases they took centuries to accumulate and and build up. Those can be quickly combusted and sent into the atmosphere as greenhouse gases. And so these are the same gases that are released by the burning of fossil fuels, which is the main driver of climate change that we're facing today. And to put a finer point on it, during Canada's record breaking 2023 fire season, wildfires released more carbon than most nations. Those wildfires released more carbon than any nation in the world, with the exception of the US, China and India. So the amount of carbon coming from these wildfires can be huge. And when we're thinking about the connection between wildfires and climate change, a lot of the studies that have been done have focused on Western North America, where we compared to pre 2000, we've seen a threefold increase in annual forest burned. And you can see in this map here, the green areas are the forested parts of Western North America. And then the wildfire perimeters are there and they're colored by decade. So you can see that there's far more red and orange on that map than there is the lighter yellow, which indicates, you know, the increase in burned area that we're seeing in this region as we move through time. And the reasons for this are very complex. While climate change plays a key role, which you can see in this figure here, where we have cumulative acres burned on the Y axis and time on the X. And you can see in those two different shades of blue, the amount of burned area that has been attributed to climate change. And what we've seen in the forests of Western North America is that there's been a near doubling in burned area between 1984 and 2015. And that that the near doubling in burned area is attributable to climate change. And although climate change plays a role, we know that there are lots of other factors that contribute, which is part of what makes wildfire a really exciting area of research to study. And it's exciting to explore the connections between climate change. But we know that there are other factors that are playing a big role in our wildfire situation, too. So before colonization, lots of landscapes in Western North America burned regularly due to fires that were ignited by lightning, but also those that were set intentionally by indigenous communities to clear land for protection for food. And we know that fire maintained a mosaic, so forested areas, grasslands, clumps of shrubs all intermixed, which slowed and changed how fire moved across the landscape. And also because of that diversity in that mosaic, it constrained the severity of those burns. So for instance, a fire might move very quickly through a grassy area, right, those flashy, fine fuels, the flashy, fine vegetation, but then slowly move through woodier fuels that would be on a forest floor. And so by regularly clearing out that undergrowth, fire through these low and mixed severity fires helped reduce the risk of those higher severity ones that can kill entire stands of trees or threatened communities. And I think it's important to note here that fire regimes are really specific to different ecosystems. But in those ecosystems, we know that fire has been present for a really long time and has helped shape these ecosystems in the current way that we know them. And so as a matter of policy until the 1980s, both the US and Canadian governments really excluded fire and implemented blanket policies of fire suppression. Excuse me, it's early and I'm not often talking this much this early. So ignitions were quickly extinguished and in some cases, settlers banned or criminalized intentional burning. And so in the absence of these regularly occurring fires, we saw growth in the understory and that increased the risk of high severity fire. And on top of that, a focus on timber production also led to the removal of a lot of large fire tolerant trees from these landscapes, which can really impact the diversity of the biology there, but also changes how resilient they are to wildfire since the trees that were most resilient had been removed. And so in these more continuous and densely arranged trees, forests can easily carry and spread fire. And those dense stands also increase the risk of insect outbreaks, which are facilitated by warmer winter temperatures, which allow the beetle to survive over the winter. But that can also lead to a lot of standing dead vegetation that's dried out and ready to burn. But despite all these other factors, the influence of climate change is really clear in part because of the drying effect that's happening in our forest, which is really priming them for fire. The drying is a result of a lot of things like including higher temperatures and longer droughts, but vapor pressure deficit, VPD, a concept that does not get a lot of airtime outside of scientific circles. You don't hear a lot of casual conversation around VPD unless you're in certain circles, I guess. But VPD has emerged as a key factor that really captures the collective impact of climate change on the dryness or in the scientific word, aridity of these forests. And so rising VPD linked to human caused climate change has been shown to be connected to increases in the number of large fires, fires burned at high severity as well as the total burned area. So we're actually going to talk a little bit more about VPD since it is such an important way that climate and climate change are impacting wildfires across the world. So vapor pressure deficit is calculated as the difference between the amount of moisture that's actually in the air and the amount of moisture that it theoretically could hold at saturation. And so it's really similar to relative humidity, which uses a percentage to describe the amount of moisture in the air, but different from relative humidity because temperature is always included in a calculation of VPD. So in this image here, we're looking at two different temperatures of air. You have the cooler air in the blue circles and the warmer air in the red circles. And if you look at the ambient circle there, you can see that actually, let's start with the saturated. We know that warmer air can hold more water, which is an important part of how climate change is impacting our climate. And so in the saturated, you can see that there's more water molecules in a given space of air because that air can hold more water. And what we're seeing at the ambient circle there is what is happening at 50% relative humidity. So you can see that they're holding half as much water as they could at saturation. So when we're thinking about them in terms of relative humidity, they're roughly the same. But when we're thinking about vapor pressure deficit, they show really different things because the amount of moisture required to reach saturation, which you can see in that deficit column on the far right, is double at higher temperatures than at lower temperatures. And so we know that this is, again, because of the way that plants operate, because they're opening their stomata to do photosynthesis. We know that at higher areas of VPD, the molecules of water are going to move more quickly out of the plant and into the atmosphere, which is one mechanism by which VPD can increase the dryness of vegetation, which can then lead to fire. And so when we're thinking about the connection of wildfires and climate change, we know because of a lot of scientific research that's been funded by many, many agencies that have recently seen large cuts to their budgets and research funding. Because of that research, we know that these wildfires are getting worse. And my colleague earlier, we did not plan to talk next to each other. That just happened, but talked a lot about attribution science and the way that we can connect emissions from specific sources and anthropogenic climate change to specific events and impacts right now. And we know that due to all of this research that that's happening across the United States. So recent research has shown that more wildfires are burning larger areas. They're burning at higher severity. They're moving faster, which has serious implications for how we're able to manage these fires. We know they're burning into higher elevations over much longer fire seasons and under extreme fire weather conditions, which can make it really challenging to protect communities and contain a wildfire. The number of days of extreme fire weather have more than doubled in California since 1980s. And that can change how fire spreads. We saw really extreme fire weather in January of this year in Los Angeles, the high winds that that rapidly spread fires, both the Eaton fire and the Palisades fire. And we know that the wildfire season is extending to which in some regions it's becoming a year round phenomenon. So earlier snow melt and thaw gives vegetation more time to dry out and extended periods of high temperature and drought combined with the delayed onset of rains means that fires can start earlier and burn farther into the fall. But one thing that's interesting also about climate change is that wildfires are burning later into the night and ramping up earlier in the morning. If you can imagine in a world before climate change fires would tend to because of lower temperatures and greater moisture, they would die down in the middle of the night, giving wildland firefighters a break and allowing them to kind of reset and re strategize. But what we're seeing now is that those same kind of lulls aren't happening, which has really big implications for wildland firefighter safety and also the efficacy of our efforts to contain some of these wildfires. And we know that with the connection between wildfires and climate change, the real driver of climate change is the burning of fossil fuels. And so as part of source attribution research, which Delta talked about in the last half hour, we were involved in a study that wanted to make this connection more explicit. And so a group of scientists, including myself, led by Christy Dahl, did research to understand how much of the increase in wildfire activity is attributable to emissions traced to the largest 88 fossil fuel producers and cement manufacturers. And like Delta mentioned, nearly two thirds of all industrial emissions can be traced to just 90 carbon majors, as they're called. And so as part of this research, we wanted to understand the impact of these emissions that are attributable to these companies on specifically the wildfire and climate change dynamics that we are seeing in Western North America. And so we found that more than 48 percent of the increase in VPD since 1901 is attributable to emissions traced to these 88 companies. And you can see that here where we have VPD modeled with the big 88 emissions, those largest carbon producers in pink and then without those emissions. And you can see that difference and how that difference diverges over time. And we were able to, as a result of previous research that had been done and led by John Abotziglue, that we also we were also able to extend this to burned area, finding that 37 percent of forested area burned in Western North America since 1986 is attributable to emissions traced to these 88 entities. And that has has clear implications for how we move forward when we're when we're thinking about wildfire. That's roughly an area the size of Maine that's attributable to their emissions. And so we know that wildfires are a complex problem, that the budget cuts that we've been seeing endanger not only our ability to do important research around wildfires and their connections to climate change, to be able to enhance the resilience of communities that are in these more fire prone areas. And we know that we're going to be able to enhance our resilience. And we know that continuing that research is going to be critical to enhance our resilience long term. Thank you. And so I'll pass it back to Michaela. Thanks, Carly. This is both horrifying and wonderful to learn how much progress there has been in understanding forest fires. There are a lot of chats and questions. I'm going to start with the question about past climate. So is it still a theory that the Little Ice Age was connected to the lack of indigenous fire management after the death that followed contact? I have read a paper that draws that conclusion, but I have not dug into the research myself to be able to to vouch for that for that paper or its conclusions. OK. So other question more than related to your expertise. As high intensity wildfires spread into areas where they previously weren't, that's changing the ecosystem. What is the risk of local ecosystem collapse? Yeah, that's a really interesting question. And I think for a lot of these forested areas, I think ecosystem collapse is is really broad and there are a lot of ways to think about it. I think when it comes to these changing fire regimes, we are certainly going to see and are already seeing these ecosystems change dramatically. Like I mentioned, we're seeing forests that may be converted into grasslands, areas where the fire has burned so deeply into the soil that it's completely eliminated the seed bed that would have been part of that soil. And so completely new plants are taking hold. So I think there are lots of ways that fires and climate change generally are going to disrupt the ecosystems that we are used to seeing. And I think that that is not and that's something that we are going to be seeing. And like I said, we are already seeing in some of these places where we're having really high severity wildfires. Okay. One more question. So then is it possible, you think, to return to relevant ecosystem to something like they were before prescriptive burns were banned at this point? Would that help? I think there are a lot of ways to make our ecosystems more resilient to wildfire. Prescribed burns is one of those ways. We see that the land managers across the Western US are starting to implement this. But what's interesting about prescribed burns and climate change is that there are really specific weather conditions under which prescribed burns can occur, because obviously the goal of a prescribed burn is to increase the resilience of a forest, perhaps clear out any, you know, overgrown understory plants, etc. And one thing that's challenging is that window is getting much, much shorter. The window in which prescribed burns can occur is shrinking as a result of climate mediated changes in weather and the conditions that go along with that. And so while prescribed burns are an important piece of what we can do, it's more and more challenging to implement them as a result of climate change. Right. We've been hearing that there's no more fire season. It's a whole fire year. Yeah. Yeah. So I have a question if I host privileges of asking my own question. Can you comment then, you know, of what does this all mean for two things? One again, the feedback between fire and climate change with the carbon emission, but also what does this mean for schemes that want to mitigate climate change by having carbon stored, captured and stored by by trees and vegetation in general? Yeah, that's a that's a really great question and a tricky intersection. Right. If it burns, that's obviously eliminating any carbon that's sequestered as part of any of those kind of natural climate solutions projects. And so I think that's a real risk that's posed to a lot of those projects. We know that a huge part of the buffer pool for California for California's market has burned within the last several years during the major fire seasons that they've had. So that's definitely a concern. And I don't think it's it's something that I have not seen folks grappling with in a real way. But you're correct about the feedbacks. Some research that I was involved in a couple of years ago showed that in just the boreal forest kind of between the temperate forests and Arctic, those forests in just Canada and the United States alone could contribute up to 3% of what our total carbon total remaining carbon budget was as of 2020. And we know that based on our estimates that the wildfires in Canada in 2023 blew through about a third of what we had predicted or had what we had projected rather would occur by 2050. And so the speed of those emissions and the magnitude of those emissions are increasing. So I yeah, sorry, that's a that's a bummer note to end on. But I think that there's you know, there's a lot of potential for, you know, important interventions here as far as wildfires are concerned. But what you named are really serious considerations as we're thinking about how to tackle climate change and how to adapt to what we know are the the impacts coming down the line. Well, we're out of time. There's more questions, but we're out of time. Thank you so very much, Carly. It's been great. And we're ready to move on to the next speaker. But before we do that, I just want to remind everybody if you just woke up and met ours are logged in back to our live stream, I want to remind everybody why we're here. Well, we are a bunch of scientists and the weather forecasters and climate forecasters. And we are here to celebrate decades of accomplishment in our science. We have gone from just getting the weather that we get and not being able to prepare to having amazing forecasts that can tell us if we are in danger, if a hurricane is coming our way, if our. If if a tornado is coming our way or just even if there's rain for our picnic. Right. So we all use our weather forecast and we more and more also use our climate forecast. Right. So we need to prepare for things like the incidence of wildfire. How are we going to deal with these new changes in our environment? So this progress has been built on decades of observations and modeling and science. And a lot of it has been funded by the federal government of the United States. And we are incredibly grateful to the American taxpayers for allowing us to have the best job in the world and make a difference in the life of the world. And make a difference in the life of people. Right now, we've seen a lot of cuts to this funding. We've seen weather stations that can't send out weather balloons. And we've seen people lay off students who can't go on to a PhD who would be great addition to our next generation of scientists and are facing cuts in in our ability to support them. We are seeing expertise leaving our federal agencies and our universities. So we need better support. And for that to happen, we need the public to tell the representatives that this science is important. So we're here to make this case, to learn together. And we ask you to please call your representatives and let them know that you are excited about our science and you want it to continue. And in the meanwhile, like our stream, share it, make sure that the word goes out, that we are here. We are going to be here all the way to Sunday morning. The streaming has started on Wednesday as we were saying goodbye to NASA Geese Lab on Broadway and 1-13 here in New York City. And it's going all the way to June 1st, which is the beginning of hurricane season, just as a reminder to everybody that we do like our weather forecast. So get the word out. And now we are getting ready to welcome our second speaker for my hosting time. But we've had so many speakers. So thank you, Lily Dove, for being here this morning. Lily is a seagoing oceanographer, studied the interaction of physics and biogeochemistry, particularly in polar oceans. And so she's going to talk a little bit about all the sources of data that we have accumulated over the years and how she uses it to understand how carbon dioxide moves between the atmosphere and the ocean. So thank you, Dr. Lily Dove. The floor is yours. Wonderful. Thanks, Michaela. It's great to be here. I've been enjoying the live stream immensely. I'm so excited to get to share my science with y'all. So I'm going to talk about how we observe our blue planet using robots. And I'm going to focus on one very specific robot. But I'd like to talk to you about how we got to this point and why it's such an important point for us to continue to support oceanography and ocean research. And so I'm really motivated by the fact that I have had a long history of support from the federal government to even get where I am today. So I was able to go to college partly because I received Pell grants from the Department of Education. These are grants which are given to low income students, which don't have to be paid back, but help students just get in, get their foot in the door, get to college. That allowed me to begin my scientific journey. I then received a graduate fellowship from National Science Foundation for my PhD, which allowed me to be really creative and explore all these different topics I was excited about and really find the thing that drove me. And currently I am funded by a fellowship from the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration, NOAA, which allows me to investigate ocean dynamics, ocean currents, and support some of the work I'll be talking to you about today. But before all of this, I spent a lot of time on this beach specifically. This is my hometown, St. Augustine, Florida. And you can see one, it's gorgeous. It's a beautiful place. But it also, you know, sparks a lot of questions when, you know, you're just walking down the beach, you see these beautiful huge waves coming in. It's Florida, so we got some hurricanes, the thunderstorms every day. It's just a place that really sparks your, sparks your curiosity when it comes to the natural world. So I got very interested in just kind of ocean science, just how does the world work? How does energy move between the atmosphere and the ocean and all these other parts of our Earth system, just by walking down the beach when I was growing up? And I learned in college that the ocean plays a really important job in mediating heat on our planet. So what I mean by that is heat comes in primarily at the tropics in the equator. In this, in this diagram, the red colors are warmer, the purple colors are colder. And heat's primarily entering near the equator and the poles are usually are quite cold because there's not as much solar insulation coming in, not as much solar radiation. But the atmosphere, the atmosphere and the ocean both help move heat around our, around our system. And in the ocean in particular, we have these massive big currents which help move water from the, from the equator to the poles and then back again. So if we didn't have the ocean and the atmosphere moving this water and this, these air masses around, our planet would be a lot, our poles would be a lot colder than they already are. And our equator would be a lot warmer. But because we have these systems at work, we know that our, our planet is a really nice and habitable place. And we are able to live on almost all the, all the land masses on our amazing planet. But we know also that our ocean is warming. And so I really like this diagram. This shows a, the ocean temperature and it is normalized to 1880 when we kind of started making measurements of ocean temperature. And what that means is 1880, we've scaled the access to zero and we're looking at the change in temperature of the ocean. I put some key dates on here. In 1920, women in the U.S. got the right to vote. Here's where World War II is. This is the first Apollo, this is the Apollo moon landing, Apollo 11. This is when I was born. And you can see we've, you know, there's some variability in here. We've had a lot of awesome talks about variability in the climate system, but there's also this big increase that we're seeing as a result of anthropogenic climate change. And for those who aren't as used to thinking about Celsius, 0.75, 0.76 degrees Celsius is about two degrees Fahrenheit. And so that doesn't seem like a lot, you know, maybe, you know, be kind of nice if sometimes in the springtime the ocean was a little warmer so you could go swimming. But this has really large impacts, both for the climate and weather systems, but also for marine biology and marine ecology. And so the question I got when I first saw a plot like this, I was like, okay, wait, how are people actually making these measurements? Like, I get that, you know, you know, I've I've seen, you know, we go out and people I get I get why now we can make measurements. How are people making measurements of ocean temperature all the way back here? And so that got me really curious and really has driven my interest in oceanography since. So how do we actually take the ocean's temperature? So one way we do it, and this is, you know, the way we do it now, but it's kind of just a modified version of how we were taking the ocean's measurement 100 years ago, is we put large instruments into the ocean, large tools that allow us to collect water and also have sensors attached. And so what I'm showing here, this is what's called a CTD rosette CTD stands for conductivity, temperature and depth. Conductivity is just another is a fancy word for salinity. So this is helping us measure how salty, how warm and how deep the ocean is. And you can see that's me in the back. And this is my friend Bailey. And we're setting up this CTD to go into the water. And so I'm pointing with these arrows. There are some sensors attached that allow us to measure temperature, salinity, other ocean properties like oxygen and chlorophyll. But there are also these bottles that take up the majority of this frame that allow us to capture water samples at different depths. So you can imagine it's pretty easy to measure temperature with a with a sensor like the way we measure our temperature with a thermometer. But there are other things like phytoplankton and biological measurements that we need to capture water and actually bring it back in order to analyze. And so what we do with a CTD rosette is we are able to put this over the side of a ship. This is an example of us doing that. This is on the Roger Revelle, which is a oceanographic research going vessel. And you can see that's the rosette that we prepped and it's going into the water and this massive crane. This rosette weighs about a thousand pounds. And so it needs this really strong, tense wire. And you can see it's a big safety operation as well to get this into the water safely to collect samples. When it comes back, when this CTD rosette is in the water, it's going down in the water column. The ocean is it can be up to six kilometers deep. It's a couple of miles deep. And so it can take a long time. And so we will watch the data come back in real time off of those sensors that are making measurements. And so this is a group of a group of my friends watching that data come back. Once the CTD rosette is back on board, then the party gets started. We're able to actually track which bottles have already been sampled. There are many different things that we need to sample all at once. And so it's important to keep track. And you can see that people here are sampling each of these bottles and they're measuring for many different things. Matthew here is collecting measurements for things like dissolved inorganic carbon and alkalinity. Albert here is measuring for pH. He's collecting samples so we can measure pH. And Michaela here is collecting water samples so we can look at different isotopic measurements. And these are things that are difficult to measure precisely using sensors, but we can do well once we have actual water samples on board. And so once we actually get all those water samples on board, we have amazing scientists who are able to analyze all those samples. This is Sydney measuring alkalinity from all of those bottles that were just collected. So this is awesome. This is my favorite part of my job is getting to go out on the ocean, is getting to collect these samples to understand the ocean around us. But the ocean often doesn't agree with us. And what I mean by that is it can get really stormy. It can get really dangerous to be out on the ocean. And so this is a video I have pulled from the Internet. I did not take this, thankfully. But this is a real example of a ship going through some massive storms. I believe this is in the Southern Ocean. And so it can be dangerous to be out on the ocean, especially on a research vessel where you're many, many, many miles from land. So you need to think about how do we make these measurements everywhere and in a safe way? And so one way scientists have come up with is really leaning into the robotic revolution. And one way we've done that is by leveraging autonomous profiling instrumentation. And this is an example of an autonomous profiling float. We call these Argo floats. So those of you who are up and hip on your Greek mythology, I heard of Jason and the Aragonauts. Argo was the name of the ship that Jason and his crew were on. So these are named Argo in honor of that ship. And this is a special kind of Argo float because there's some extra additional sensors on it. You can see these floats are about the same size as me. They're the same height. They're also about the same level of blonde as me. They're bright yellow. And they have a lot of different sensors on them. And so I'm going to point out to a couple of them. Near the top, there are sensors that detect the same thing that we were detecting when we put that big, rosette over the side of the ship. This is a much more compact way to do that. Sensors that detect temperature, salinity, other properties in the ocean. Also up at the top is an antenna and a transmitter that allows this float to make a satellite connection. And that's really important because that means that this float is collecting data as it moves along in the ocean. It's also able to call home and send that data back to us. And I'll tell you more about that in a minute. Inside this big body, the majority of it is taken up by big batteries that allow it to last for three to five years, sometimes even up to six or seven years out in the open ocean. So you can imagine I love going out to sea. But, you know, I also have family and friends and pets at home. And so it can be really hard to be out there for multiple months at a time. But this float can just sit out there for multiple years at a time. And we do miss them, but they're not looking. They don't have a family to come home to the same way we do. And at the bottom, there are some additional sensors. These have been big steps in oceanographic research in the last few years, last decade or so, has been building sensors that are able to make really accurate measurements of things like chlorophyll, things like nitrate. These are properties in the ocean that are really important for understanding biological growth and biology in the ocean. So what does a float lifetime actually look like? I have this big machine that's about as hollow as me. What do we actually do with it? When we go out on the ocean, we put this float over the side of the ship. And this float then will dive to about 1000 meters. It's able to do that because the float can change its buoyancy or its density. And so we know that the density of the ocean is light at the top and heavy at the bottom. And so the float is able to make itself denser and sink in the ocean. And then it floats around for multiple days, about 10 days. It will float. It will sink a little more and then it will come back up to the surface. And as it's coming back up to the surface, it collects measurements. It's collecting data. It's collecting all those really important vital life signs of our ocean like temperature and salinity and nitrate. And when it comes to the surface, it's able to call home. And that's especially important is that transmitting data back home via the satellite. And then it continues on its lifetime again. So this means every 10 days, each float we put out calls home. It sends back information about where it is and what the properties are in the ocean. And we're able to see that data immediately because of that satellite connection. We're able to see the data that floats send us back at sea with this totally not staged picture of us looking at data. And we're also able to see that data when we're at home with our pets and our loved ones and our family. So even though we love going out on the ocean, most many oceanographers do, we also love spending time with our pets. And so these floats really make that possible for us. So we're able to do our science and stay safe and also get our quality time. So I love these next couple of plots I want to show you because they demonstrate the complete revolution of oceanography that these profiling floats have given us. So what I'm showing right here is the global coverage of ocean data before we started putting floats in the ocean. And you can see there's a total down here, which is about half a million. But these are measurements made by ocean going vessels that would do those big measurements, those long measurements with the CTD rosette. And you can see that there's a big bias in where these measurements were made. Black colors here represent places where there's about one to 10 measurements. Pink to purple colors are places where there were more measurements on the order of a couple hundred. There's a big bias where off the coasts of major land masses, there's more data such as off off of Asia and off of North America and off of Europe. But there's this big bias where the southern hemisphere is significantly less covered than the northern hemisphere, even though it's just as important oceanographically and just as important in many, many and every way to our planet. So what I'm going to do now is I'm going to change this slide to show you what this data coverage looks like now that we have all of these profiling floats. And I want you to pay attention to the total number, that number in red, but also just look at how the colors change. That's a big change. So what we're seeing here is these are all the same colors. So the pinks and purples are those couple hundred values, but now almost everywhere in the northern hemisphere, it has over has over 50 measurements of the ocean. And a big chunk of the southern hemisphere does as well. You can see there are still parts in there. I know we could all point to a couple of places like, oh, what about what's going on in there? And that's what we as oceanographers are looking to fill in now. We're looking to fill in these gaps. And these floats have made it totally possible for us to get these regular reports about the state of the ocean, the temperature of the ocean while we're sitting at home. So then we can focus on the interesting and the really important places that are really vital for making climate and weather weather forecasts and also climate projections. So who uses this data? I've talked a little bit about scientists, how we love collecting this data, but there are a ton of people who use this data outside of scientists. So people who are interested in forecasting for agriculture are really interested in float data because we've heard quite a few talks about how ocean measurements or ocean temperatures like sea surface temperatures impact, impact weather and impact our day to day experiences. One way you can think about this is you've heard about El Nino and La Nina. These are changes in sea surface temperature that are happening as a result of really interesting ocean dynamics happening deeper in the water column. But that have major impact on precipitation and landfall. So by measuring the ocean more accurately, we are able to make better agricultural predictions and forecasts and know when and where we should plant what species. Additionally, of course, the energy industry is really interested in this data. Offshore wind, just by a function of being offshore is it is vital to have measurements about the ocean, but traditional energies and also solar companies are really interested in this data for the same reasons. And so that's how ocean properties really impact our day to day to day lived experiences on land. The shipping industry is really interested in oceanographic data because I bet if you look around at everything around you, a large part of what's sitting around you probably crossed an ocean at some point. And these ships carrying all of those things need to stay safe and also need to know what conditions they're moving into. And so the shipping industry really cares about oceanographic properties. Fishermen, fisher people. So you can imagine fish really care about the temperature of the water, the oxygen and other properties. And therefore, the people who catch fish really care too. So there's a lot of interest in aquaculture and the fishing community in understanding ocean properties, basically what they are, but also how they're changing as well. And finally, I would be remiss if I didn't put myself on here, but scientists, we care about this because one, the ocean is a fascinating and beautiful place, but it is also so fundamental to our experiences on this beautiful planet. And so we have the privilege of using this data to investigate, investigate ocean processes. I just want to highlight that these floats, while they may, you know, they're fun to think about and they're really cool and, you know, they have a lot of personality. Each one gets named, for instance, because scientists love to name things. But they're a prime example of US scientific leadership. So what I'm plotting here, this is a lot of dots, but this is basically all of the dots are floats that have been put out in the global ocean. And there are over 4000 out there right now. And each of them is colored by the by the country that sponsored or that paid for that float. And you can see quite a few different colors in there, but there's a lot of dark green on there. And that dark green is the United States. The United States has contributed over half of the of the profiling floats that are currently operational in our global oceans. And this is a prime example of scientific leadership. Of course, this project and all of this data wouldn't be possible without all of these other countries. But the US is really leading the way in these measurements. And we've really invested in these measurements and recognize how important they are to our to our to understanding our oceans. And so letting that go, changing that, letting somebody else lead the way would be a real shame because we've invested so much in in doing this. And so I want to take you back to the place that inspired me originally. Again, this is my hometown. I hope the next time you go to the you go to the beach or the lake or just look out at, you know, their local pond. You just think about how awesome it is that we live on a water planet and how amazing it is that we get the chance to investigate these amazing, beautiful places. If you're excited about floats and interested in looking at the data yourself, you can scan this QR code and it'll take you to a website where you can look at all the floats that are out right now and all the data they are sending back minute by minute. It's super fun. I go down this rabbit hole all the time, but I'll leave it there. And I'm excited to hear about your questions. Thank you, Lily. This is great. I always love to hear about how we learn about the ocean. So we have a few quick questions. The first one would be, does the CTD rosette have different functions from Argo? And I would want to, you know, add to that, like some examples, like can can these floats go as far down the water column as your rosette? And what about those samples? Is there any hope to get floats that can also take samples? Great question. Okay. So this is part of the reason why my job of going out on the ocean is not completely obsolete. Otherwise, we just let floats do it all. But floats can only go down, the traditional Argo floats can only go down to 2000 meters. So two kilometers in the ocean. And I mentioned that the average ocean depth is about four kilometers. And so we are missing about half the ocean by only looking at the upper two kilometers with these floats. And that's still a ton of data. But right now, there are some floats and developments that are able to go to greater depths. But you can imagine they're much more expensive because you have to build sensors and everything that are able to withstand such high pressures. And so right now, CTD rosettes are the kind of the gold standard way we measure the ocean at that depth and the ocean anywhere. We are also only have some sensors that are able to go on Argo floats that we have real complete trust in. We are really good at measuring temperature and salinity, for example. We have really high precision on those sensors. But other sensors, we're still working on. It's hard to get a good measurement of certain things. And then sometimes, you know, two years later, the sensor might not be working as well. But these the sensors on the CTD rosette are calibrated every time a new a new expedition starts. So you have a lot of trust in those measurements. So like any scientific question, it comes down to what your question is. If you need a ton of coverage, you want to use your floats. But if you need really high accuracy, really high precision measurements, and you're looking at a very localized place and you read a full water calm depth, you're going to use a CTD rosette. Okay, thank you for that. One last very quick question. How do these floats make themselves denser? That's a great question. And it is really funky to think about. So these floats have what's called a basically a buoyancy balloon inside of them. And this buoyancy balloon is full of oil. And it's basically a balloon that's inside. And so you know, we know that from scientific, you know, your experiments you do on your kitchen table, oil is less dense than water. And so it will if you put more water and oil inside a inside a jar, they're going to they're going to separate. Right. And so oil is less dense than water. And so that balloon is causing that float to have certain density. And so when we allow the balloon to collapse a little bit, that space that was taken up by oil now gets taken up by water. And so then because water is able to enter the enter the float. And so then you're able to the the float then becomes more dense and we're not releasing oil into the into the water. We're just changing the volume of the of the oil. And so we're able to make the the float is able to change its density. And by just changing the volume of of the oil balloon, it's super cool. It's super like into intuitive and non-intuitive engineering at the same time. Yes, exactly. So we this is another example in which, you know, if we show that if you want to understand our beautiful planet, it really takes everybody. It takes scientists, it takes engineers, it takes physicists and biologists and people who want to stay home with their cats and people who want to go out on the boat. So thank you, Lily, for giving us this very beautiful presentation about the magic of observing our blue planet. Thank you. We are now at our 44 of our 100 hour live stream. It's it's great to be here together. We are having a lot of fun. I I'm spending a lot of time on this live stream, and I'm actually looking forward to having a weekend in which I can spend even more time on this learning about the amazing science. science that my community, this community is doing. And I would say put it in the chat. What is the most fun thing you have learned by following our our live stream so far? But what are we here for? Besides having fun, besides learning about the Earth and climate and weather, we are here with a purpose. We want to shout out our support for this enterprise, the weather enterprise and the climate enterprise. Weather forecast and more and more climate forecast have been absolutely instrumental in helping our society be resilient, saving lives, saving properties. And and and the U. has been a leader in the progress that we've been making for decades to go from forecasts that were either non-existent or maybe only good. They are too to to knowing a week in advance if we need to fear a hurricane coming our way or you know, having tornado warnings that are that can tell us our communities how to make themselves safe. So how did the U. How did the U.S. be how how was it being a leader? Well, by as we just saw, you know, really investing in the observing system. Not only that, but also really being a leader in the computer modeling of our atmosphere and our and our ocean. And so it really has taken thousands and thousands of people over decades to come to this. The abilities we have today. And and and we are at the risk of losing that leadership because of funding cuts. And so already we've we've heard this in the last few days how our weather forecast has hurt, you know, has been hurt by missing out on important data such as the weather balloon being launched. And and and it's not as good and not as accurate because of that. And we are hearing how there are places where they're shutting down nighttime forecasting. And that's very dangerous if if severe weather is coming to you. We are trying to get the attention of the people who have the power to change this and restore the funding and support our funding for the next year. So to get their attention, we need to call them. So call your representative, visit WC live stream dot com slash act to get directed directly to a place that tells you how to who you need to call, who you need to talk to. And we're going to make it very easy for you. There's a little bit of a script that you can read out or or use your own word. Tell them, you know, that you've been excited to hear to learn about weather and to learn about climate. And you want to keep this going. Also, please help us get the word out. Share this live stream with your friends. Share with your coworkers. Let your mom know. Be on social media. And and help us get to 100 hours of live stream with a ton of people here. Hundreds of thousands. That's what we want. Okay. So we are now ready to move on to our next speaker. It is my pleasure to introduce Ali or Alexander or Ali Mazurek. I'm sorry if I'm mispronouncing your name. No worries. So Ali received her doctorate in atmospheric sciences from Colorado State University. And her thesis analyzed the a forecast of severe thunderstorms environments. And she is currently working as an engagement climatologist in Colorado Climate Center. And we are very excited to hear you talk about your research. Thanks, Ali. Yeah. Thanks. Yeah. Thanks so much for having me. And thanks to everyone for organizing this. If I say something silly, it's because it's 6 a.m. here in Colorado. So my brain might not be fully functional yet. But yeah, we'll get through this together. Yeah. So my name is Ali Mazurek. I am currently serving as what we call an engagement climatologist here at the Colorado Climate Center at Colorado State University. And so as part of that, my current role is kind of providing climate data and climate information to people across the state of Colorado. But today I'm going to be talking about some work that I did during my PhD on looking at AI and machine learning forecasts of severe thunderstorm environments. So with that, we'll dive in. But first, I thought I would give just a little bit of background on myself. So I've been tuning into the live stream on and off the last couple of days. And I feel like, you know, this is a pretty common theme. You might have noticed that us meteorologists and atmospheric scientists often have always been curious and interested in the weather. And I was definitely no different than that. One of my earliest kind of weather memories that sort of prompted my interest in this was Hurricane Ivan in 2004. I lived in North Georgia at the time. And this hurricane caused flooding in my neighborhood. And I thought that was really crazy that a storm system like that could do something so impactful. So that was one of many weather events that kind of got me curious about weather and atmospheric science. And so I eventually went on to study atmospheric science in undergrad. Here's a picture of me and my friend graduating. And so I earned my Bachelor of Science there in 2019 in atmospheric science. And so I was really excited about that. But while I was there, I got to participate in this really awesome program called the NOAA Ernest F. Hollings Scholarship Program. This is the class of scholars that I was with over here on the right. And then this is me kind of presenting my summer research at the end of that. So if you're not familiar with this program, it offers you two years of college support towards tuition and things like that, as well as provides you with a summer internship experience at a NOAA facility. So I was fortunate to get to intern at one of these facilities in Silver Spring, Maryland. And this experience really got me excited about research and NOAA's mission of science and service to the American public. And so after I finished undergraduate, I came out here to Colorado State where I got my master's and Ph.D. in atmospheric science. And nearly all of my work here at CSU has been supported by grant funding from the federal government. My first year I got here, I had a research fellowship from that was sponsored by the NOAA Climate Program Office. I was on several other NOAA grants. I got to participate in a couple NSF focused field projects. And then my last year of my Ph.D., I worked really closely with a NOAA Cooperative Institute that's located here in Fort Collins. So I am for know for one that I'm really grateful for, you know, our federal funding and their support of science. Yeah. And so I'm going to talk about some of that federally funded research here today in the form of severe convective storms. So if you've been tuning in, you are probably familiar that severe convective storms can be extremely damaging and life threatening to the United States and the people that live there. And not only can it be very damaging to life and property, but it's also extremely costly to the U.S. economy. So we have lots of costly weather events here in the U.S. But I want to point out on this plot here, this is U.S. billion dollar disaster events. And the green bars that you see here are referring to severe storm focused billion dollar disasters. So you can see that these kinds of events can be very costly to our economy. And so it's important to know how to predict them. But predicting severe thunderstorms is extremely challenging. They operate on very small scales and often have very localized impacts. So this can make it very difficult to know when and where certain impacts will happen. And we rely extremely heavily on our forecast models, including those that have been produced by NOAA to predict this kind of solve this predictive problem. So just to give a little bit of background here, the way that we've traditionally forecasted severe weather has depended on what we call numerical weather prediction or NWP based models. And the way that these models work is essentially you take observations that we have from the ground or up higher in the atmosphere from weather balloons or things like that. And we use a process called data assimilation to kind of format the data and ready it to kind of put it into a weather model. And so once we've done that, we can use what we call prognostic equations, which capture various processes in the atmosphere. So like radiation coming in from the sun or effects from terrain like mountains, processes from the ocean. And so we have thousands and thousands of equations in these weather models that we can then iterate forward in time to then solve on a 3D gridded Earth with a supercomputer often housed at some sort of NOAA facility. Or some NOAA partner facility. And so we can solve all of these equations forward in time using our initial observations to kind of prompt the model to start. And then we can eventually get a forecast and then we can kind of make that forecast a little bit better. So that's sort of how traditional models have worked. But even though we've come a really long way in the last several decades towards improving our computing abilities, this step here remains really time intensive. It still takes a long time for these weather models to run. And obviously for severe weather situations, we want data as fast as possible. So this is kind of where machine learning has sort of entered the fields over the last decade or so. So machine learning is kind of an alternative approach to predicting the weather. And so this is kind of a little bit more of a not necessarily simple, but a little bit easier to digest process where we again, we take some kind of data and we push it through a trained machine learning model and then we can get a forecast. And so these kinds of models offer a lot of benefits to weather prediction, but they also introduce a lot of new challenges. So some benefits are that they are often much faster and can provide better accuracy than some of our current numerical weather prediction systems. But kind of on the flip side of that, they can be really difficult to interpret. And they also do not take into account those physical equations of the atmosphere in many cases. So they make our forecast purely on statistics based relationships rather than the physical things we know about how the atmosphere works. And so kind of over this past decade, we've had a lot of these machine learning systems kind of enter our fields. And they've been developed for weather forecasting purposes. And so with these developments, we want to know how these machine learning based forecast systems are using the atmospheric data that we're giving it to make these kinds of predictions. And so because these products are relatively new, there still remains kind of a lot of skepticism around them, including in the weather forecasting community, because we've kind of done things this way for so many years. And rightfully so there should be skepticism around it. So as scientists, we want to support the forecasters to try to untangle this problem and help them better see through that kind of black box of the machine learning models so that they can use them better in their forecast process. So I think I saw a graphic very similar to this one in one of the talks yesterday, but I just thought I would mention, I think AI and machine learning get kind of intertwined with one another. So I think AI and machine learning is a subset of artificial intelligence. So you can think of AI as the program, the overarching program that is being trained to kind of learn and reason like a human being. But the machine learning piece is the actual algorithm that's doing that learning. So it's the one making those statistical relationships. And so within machine learning, we can have different types of machine learning. The one that I'm going to be talking about specifically today is this random forest machine learning here. So before we get kind of back into the machine learning piece, it's important to kind of introduce the specific forecast task that we're trying to help with here. So if you've heard of the NOAA storm prediction center, they issue daily forecasts, probabilistic forecasts of severe hail tornadoes and severe convective winds. Here's just an example of one of those forecasts. So basically what the probabilities here are representing is how likely you would be to see a hail tornado or wind report within 25 miles or 40 kilometers of a given location. And so what my research group here led by my advisor, Russ Schumacher, and one of our former research scientists, Aaron Hill, the kind of problem they sort of tackled was trying to kind of provide real time guidance for these probabilities that the SPC issues. So we, Aaron and Russ and others kind of developed this real time machine learning based probabilistic forecast system that aims to kind of do what we call a first guess at where severe weather will be most likely. And this is an operational product at NOAA. It's undergone a lot of forecaster evaluations and things like that. So it's now operational at NOAA facilities, which is really awesome. And I won't spend too much time here, but I just kind of want to give you a little bit of background of how this system works. So essentially what we do is we actually take variables from a numerical weather prediction model, a re-forecast system, we call it. And this is historical data over about nine years. And so we take various variables in the atmosphere that we know are important to severe weather. So things like we would call it CAPE, which is kind of how much energy is in the atmosphere or wind shear, which tells us about kind of the speed and the direction of the wind. And all of these things through science have been known to correlate with severe weather. So we take those and then we take historical observations of tornadoes, wind and hail. And so we take that information and we develop and train a random forest model until we get forecasts. And then we can run this in real time using real time numerical weather prediction forecasts. So we do still rely on that numerical weather prediction data to then initialize our machine learning forecast and run it forward in time. And so these products have been really valuable to forecasters at NOAA and beyond. However, kind of the problem with it, and this is true for a lot of machine learning systems, is that forecasters will see this information and not really know where these probabilities are coming from. They don't know. They kind of lack the information of why the machine learning model is making these predictions. They can't kind of do a deep dive like they would do with a numerical weather prediction model. But as part of my Ph.D., I kind of looked at a way that we can break these probabilities down and see what we can learn from how the model is making these predictions using the environmental information that we're using to develop the model in the first place. So we use a technique here called explainable AI or XAI to decompose our machine learning prediction into what we call ingredients. So we take to get our prediction or our final probability, say we want to predict it over this square here. We can break this down into the information from the surrounding environmental information that's being used to make the probability at that given location. So we might take energy or CAPE or instability from this grid point here or the temperature here and we can see how much each of those ingredients is contributing to the final probability that we see here. And we can break this down in dimensions of time and space so we can get really detailed in how these weather ingredients are contributing to the final prediction that our machine learning model is putting out. So here's just an example of that. So say here we have this forecast and this is what a forecaster would see the probabilities of severe weather here. We can then break this down into our ingredients. So things like our instability, our wind ingredients, and we can see the darker colors here kind of indicate the ingredients that are influencing the forecast the most. So that can give a forecaster information on how the machine learning model is making a given prediction. And if that aligns with their thinking of what they're seeing in the other data that they're using, that can give them more confidence in what the machine learning model is putting out. So I'm going to kind of look at this a little bit more broadly in the paper that I showed a few slides ago. We repeated this process for two years of forecasts to kind of see more broadly how our machine learning model is relying on this environmental information to make tornado forecasts specifically. So one of the things that I found here is that our machine learning model, we found that it relies very strongly on it relies on the environmental fields differently depending on which time of day you're looking at. So these timestamps on this plot here are what would be morning time in the US. So this is like kind of late overnight through early morning. And you can see there's not a lot of color lighting up here, which is just indicating that our model is not generally relying on this information very much at those particular times of day on those on the data coming from those particular times of day. But if we fast forward to the afternoon and early evening hours, we can see that environmental information is much more important to the machine learning model. So it's relying on that much more heavily. And this is an exciting result because our model doesn't necessarily know which time of day the different environmental information is coming from. It views all of that the same. So this kind of follows the trend of when we would expect thunderstorms to form, which is generally in the afternoon and early evening time. And then we can break this down further into our individual variables. And so taking a look at that here, for example, so we to predict tornadoes, we often rely on a variable called the lifted condensation level height. So that's essentially just the the base of where a cloud would be expected to form. And that's typically very important for tornado formation. And we can see here that compared to the other variables that the machine learning model uses, that is something that's very important to it when it's making the predictions. And then we can look at other things here. So like wind is also very important when shear. So change in wind as you go up in the atmosphere is another very important variable to tornadoes. And we can also see that's important. And then also precipitation. If we don't have precipitation, we probably won't have thunderstorms. So again, we kind of see those very first order important variables stand out here. And then kind of this last thing I have here is so these values that we see from the explainable AI method that we're using do not actually represent the actual values that the are coming from the numerical weather prediction model that's being used in the machine learning algorithm. So kind of a final step that I looked at here was seeing how do those contributions from the explainable AI algorithm correlate with the actual values that we see in the forecast data. So what we would hope is that, you know, if we have greater values of instability in the forecast model, we would also hope that because of the forecast model, we would also hope that the contributions to our probabilities would also be higher. And it does seem in general that that is how it works. So kind of to break this down more simply, we're seeing that the contributions from our explainable AI algorithm relate to the environmental variables in ways that make physical sense. So the machine is kind of using environmental information in a way that we would anticipate from a physics based numerical weather prediction model. And that's good because that means a forecaster can use this information in a similar way that they would use the traditional models that they have much more familiarity with. So this is my last slide here. Why does all of this matter? Essentially what we've done here is we've taken an operational machine learning based forecasting model that's being used by NOAA forecasters and other forecasters and broken down the environmental information that it uses to make its predictions. And we've found that it's using that environmental information in ways that make sense physically with how we would anticipate environmental information to correlate with severe weather. And so these insights can give the weather forecasters more trust in this model and more confidence when they use it to make their predictions, kind of enhancing this tool and hopefully leading to better forecasts for you. Yeah, so that's all I have. Thank you again for having me. If you would like to access our real time forecast, you can go to this website here and then that's my email. And thanks. Thank you, Ali. And related to this, there's a question in the chat asking if these XI system is already used now. So for example, for the St. Louis tornadoes predicted recently. Yeah, so we we unfortunately don't have this up and up like publicly operationally running yet. We do like compute these values with every forecast we run. Just haven't gotten around to like actually making a public facing platform for it yet. But yeah, especially with the St. Louis tornado, that would be a great use case for this to kind of see. Yeah, what the model said and then what it was using to make that prediction. Thank you. And another question about how this is put together. Do you how do you gather and prepare the data to be ready for the machine learning? And in particular, do you have to reevaluate what variables are important? Yeah, that's a great question. So, again, I wasn't strongly involved with the actual development of the machine learning model. So in kind of in the initial stages of it before I started grad school, when it was being developed, they did do some sensitivity tests to see kind of rule out variables that weren't very helpful. Yeah, and add add ones that were so they did kind of experiment some with the variables and they kind of settled on something that was, you know, looks good enough. That's kind of the hat. What you have to do with machine learning models, you kind of settle on a good enough model kind of trying to find the perfect one is something that's really, really difficult. And then in terms of gathering and preparing the data to be ready. So, yeah, we're taking this, you know, very highly dimensional data from a numerical weather prediction model. And essentially we just flatten it into like a like a one dimensional system. So we for a given forecast point, we're taking data kind of all around that forecasting point spatially. We take it in time. So several hours before. So, yeah, it has dimensions of time, space and then the different environmental variables. So this leads to millions and millions of predictors that are going into our model and making the final forecast. So, yeah, it's a lot of data crunching. Absolutely. So we are out of time, but I want to make sure we thank Ali again for her presentation and also for bringing up again the fact that NOAA not only does research, but does a lot. So a lot of support for students and capacity building. And so not only it has kept us safe for the past, but it's keeping us safe for the future. So thank you so very much, Ali. Thank you. Bye bye. Bye. And so we are coming up to the last half hour of my hosting. And very quickly, because I've been gabbling on too much about our mission, I'm going to I'm going to remind you that we are here with a purpose. Please, if you like what you've seen so far, I've seen in the chat, you know, some of the cool things that people have learned here, how the ocean is bumpy and how changing land. Land, ice also changes the shape of the ocean and we're learning a lot about data and how that data used in forecasting. Well, if you like what you're seeing, if you like to see this weather and climate forecast enterprise keep going strong, please visit WC live stream dot com slash act and call your representatives and tell everybody that we are here. We're going to be here until Sunday. And so spread the word. And and with that call to action, I want to move on to the next speaker. We are very happy to have Adam Sokol joining us today. Hi, Adam. Good morning. Morning. Adam is interested in a lot of the things I'm interested to. So this is exciting for me. He's interested in tropical convection and clouds and how they are important for the Earth's climate and climate change. He is right now a postdoc in the program for atmospheric and oceanic sciences at Princeton University. And before that, he got his Ph.D. at University of Washington, my alma mater. So welcome, Adam. And I'm going to leave the floor to you and you're going to talk to us about zeroing in on clouds and climate. Great. Thank you so much. And good morning, everyone. It's really great to be able to talk to you all, especially as we're approaching the halfway point later today. It's been awesome to see all the enthusiasm on here and hearing about the really important and fascinating science that's being done by so many people all over the place. So I'm going to talk about clouds and the role that they play in global climate and climate change. And this is a topic that I began studying when I was a Ph.D. student at the University of Washington, like Michaela said. And that was thanks to funding from some of our beloved federal agencies, NASA and the National Science Foundation. But yeah, these days I'm a postdoc at Princeton University where I work through the Cooperative Institute there that the university has with our other beloved federal agency, NOAA. But I just wanted to start here with this picture taken from the International Space Station of some thunderstorms happening somewhere over the tropics. And I find this picture to be quite captivating because you can see such an amazing level of detail here. And I'm sure all of us have been captivated at some point in our lives just staring up at whatever clouds there are over our heads. And I'd probably spend a little more time doing that than your average person. But these clouds are not only nice to look at, they also play a really important role in Earth's climate. And that's something that is apparent in this picture here because these clouds are very bright white, which means they are reflecting lots of sunlight back towards our eyes or in this case back out. To space where this picture was taken. So that reflection shades the surface of the Earth, just like an umbrella or an awning may shade you on a sunny day. And this has a really important impact on the energy balance of the planet and ultimately our climate. So in addition to this impact on the radiation budget, clouds play a really important role in many other aspects of the climate system. We all know that clouds make rain, right? And that obviously has huge impacts on Earth's ecosystems and agriculture and how those two things are spread across the planet. Clouds play a really central role in a lot of the extreme weather we experience here on Earth from hurricanes to tornadoes, monsoons. And they also play a role in much of the larger scale features of climate such as where the storm tracks are and things like that. So over the last several decades, I think we've really learned a lot about clouds and gained an appreciation that they're not just a passive tracer of where we have rising air in the atmosphere. They play a very active role in many different climate and weather phenomena that we care about for one reason or the other. So basically, since we began trying to systematically study the sensitivity of Earth's climate to carbon dioxide, clouds have been one of the largest sources of uncertainty in our understanding of how climate might respond to increases in greenhouse gases. So this is a figure from the IPCC showing different climate feedbacks. And without getting too much into the detail here, what you need to know is that the climate feedback tells us how efficient Earth is at shedding any excess energy it has trapped in the Earth's system. We can split this net feedback you see here on the left into contributions from different components of the climate, such as water vapor, albedo, such as melting ice caps. But if you look at the net feedback parameter and the kind of height of these ovals here shows you how uncertain that parameter is, you can see that most of that uncertainty is coming from the cloud contribution in this red box here. So for a very long time, several decades, clouds have been a pretty stubborn source of uncertainty in our understanding of climate and how it might respond to increases in greenhouse gas concentrations. So it's worth thinking about why that is. Why are these clouds so difficult to pin down? And I think one way of understanding this is by thinking about the different physical scales that are involved in cloud and storm systems and how they relate to the much larger scales involved in climate. So I'm showing a satellite image of Florida here taken from the ghost satellite. This is a combination of visible and infrared imagery, but you can kind of look at it like you would look at a radar on your weather app where the darker oranges here correspond to where we'd expect stronger rainfall or more stormy conditions. So you can see that there's an amazing level of detail here like we saw in that image from the space station. And this pose is quite a quite a challenge for people who want to model the atmosphere, because when we do that, we have to split the atmosphere up into discrete grid boxes, we call them. And in most traditional climate models, these will have a horizontal dimension of around 100 kilometers or so one degree latitude or longitude. So we can overlay a grid of that size onto this satellite image here. And you can see that the size of each boxes is quite large compared to some of the finer details of these cloud systems. You can imagine if we had to just assign one single color to each of these boxes, we would lose almost all of the detail that's going on here. So these models cannot really explicitly simulate the motions of air that are associated with these storms or the evolution of cloud systems within each box. So for that reason, we have to parameterize these things in our climate models. That just means use some simplified equations to represent their effects on the atmosphere. So this is one of the reasons, among others, that clouds have been so difficult to model and it's been hard to understand their role in climate change. But that's not to say we haven't learned anything about clouds. We know a tremendous amount about them. And much of that knowledge has come from satellite missions, especially publicly funded satellite missions. So an example of that is the Calypso satellite, which was a mission that was jointly administered by NASA and its French counterpart. And this satellite had a LIDAR on it, which is what's shooting this green laser you can see in this picture that would actively scan the atmosphere and detect different cloud properties as this satellite orbited the Earth. And it orbited the Earth around 15 times a day or so, I believe. And it did this for quite a long time. It was originally designed to only last three years, but it actually made it all the way to its 17th birthday, which is quite a remarkable testament to the engineering there. So you can imagine 17 years flying around the planet 15 times a day. This is a huge amount of information about clouds and has really unlocked a lot of what we know about cloud systems. And it can't really be overstated how important these satellite measurements have been to our understanding of clouds and climate. So one of the sorts of things we can do with measurements like this is generate climatologies of clouds, see where and when and how clouds are. And here I'm showing just a climatology of cloudiness in the upper part of Earth's atmosphere around 10 to 18 kilometers. And you can see these darker purple colors here kind of light up the whole tropical belt where we find the wettest parts of Earth because clouds are, of course, associated with rainfall. And in some of these cloudiest areas, you'd have a cloud overhead around 70 or 80 percent of the time. So these are quite persistent features over very large parts of the tropical atmosphere. So what is that's generating all the clouds in places like this? Throughout most of the tropics, most of the rainfall and most of the cloudiness comes from convection in the atmosphere. So you can think of atmospheric convection as basically the same phenomena as when you boil a pot of water. So this is a time lapse of that happening. And you can see what looks like a traditional thunderstorm you might see on a summer day. And when these clouds reach the upper part of Earth's atmosphere, they lose their buoyancy. They can no longer ascend and they start to spit their air out laterally. And that forms these large horizontal cloud systems that you also saw in that image from the from the space station earlier. So this is a pretty typical picture of what those systems may look like. We can also put that in a cartoon form that's a little easier to understand. So these thunderstorms will consist of what we call the core. This is the center of the storm where you may find what you think of as classic thunderstorm conditions of heavy rainfall, thunder and lightning. And as I mentioned, as these clouds reach the upper atmosphere, they form these horizontally extended large cloud systems that we call anvil clouds. And that's because in this kind of cartoon picture, they look a lot like an anvil that a blacksmith uses. And these anvil clouds can grow to be much larger than the center of the storm itself. And they last for much longer periods of time in general as well. So they can have a significant impact on the radiation budget of the atmosphere and the planet because of how large they are and how long they can last. So I mentioned that clouds are a source of a lot of uncertainty when it comes to climate change. And these convective clouds that I just showed you are an especially uncertain part of that. This is an assessment of some different types of cloud feedbacks on the climate system. And I'm not going to go into the details of each one, but the one we're talking about today is what I've highlighted. That's radiative feedbacks associated with changes in the size or the optical properties of these thunderstorm clouds and the large anvil clouds that they produce. So you can see a very wide uncertainty bar on this feedback here, meaning we don't have a great understanding of how changes in cloud properties may exacerbate climate change or mitigate the temperature changes associated with climate change. And in fact, if you look at any individual feedback process, whether or not it was related to clouds included in this assessment of Earth's climate, you'd find that this is actually the least certain of all of them. So one of the guiding questions of my work as a graduate student was can we constrain the role of these clouds in global climate and climate change? And the punchline here and the little bit of work I'm going to talk to you about is that using all the different tools we had available, it really looks like this feedback is actually much closer to zero, even slightly positive. But either way, whether it's zero or whether it's slightly positive, these clouds are not providing the large negative feedback that we thought they might on the climate system. So this implies quite a big change in the total radiative feedback associated with cloud changes and climate change and has some pretty important implications for how much the Earth might warm in response to some greenhouse gas input. So I'll take a step back now and tell you in a few slides just how we got to that point and the different tools we were able to use. So we'll go back to the radiative impacts of clouds on climate and I already mentioned this shortwave or visible light reflection on the title slide where these clouds shade their surface from sunlight. But there's and that is a cooling effect on the climate, but there's also a complimentary warming effect that goes along with these clouds and that's because they absorb infrared or longwave radiation that's coming up from the surface of the Earth and they prevent it from getting out to space. So if they're shading the Earth with an umbrella, they're also kind of warming the Earth at the same time with a blanket. So you have these compensating warming and cooling effects coming from these cloud systems and we're interested in kind of what the total effect of these clouds is. And it just so happens that the net radiative effects are just the sum of these two parts varies pretty systematically when you look at different parts of these storms. So in the in the thunderstorm part of the storm and where the Anvil cloud is still very fresh and optically thick where it has a lot of ice and condensed water in it. These clouds tend to have a net cooling effect. They reflect a lot of sunlight back to space. But as these clouds evolve over time, they thin out and eventually they have this net warming effect. And of course, as the cloud dissipates away, that effect will go back towards zero. So we have this compensation here between net cooling and net warming parts of these systems. And in the present day, it just so happens that this cancellation between these two parts is pretty close to exact. The net radiative effect of convection in the atmosphere in the tropics, at least, is quite small, very small compared to either the positive or the negative components. So one question that people have been interested in for several decades and that I was interested in contributing to was whether or not climate change could tip this balance. If that balance tips in one way or the other, it could be a significant feedback on anthropogenic climate change. So to do that, we started by trying to understand how the lifecycle of these clouds works in the present day climate. And that's when we made use of a lot of these satellite measurements that I mentioned earlier. This is just an example of a picture taken by this Calypso satellite where the color is corresponding to the ice content of the cloud. And you can see there's the most ice kind of in these tall convective cores where we have precipitation and thunderstorm conditions. So like I mentioned, we have 17 years of this data flying around the Earth 15 times a day. So that's a massive amount of information about cloud structure that we can use to kind of composite around the lifecycle of these cloud systems and gain an understanding as to how their structure evolves. So this is just one example of what we can do with information like this. We can look at the cloud at different stages of its thickness. And if you think of the cloud lifecycle, time is kind of going from right to left here as this cloud starts off very thick from the thunderstorm and eventually thins out and dissipates to zero. And the color in this image is the radiative heating rate. So that's just how much the absorption or emission of radiation is changing the temperature of the cloud, whether it's warming or cooling the air there. And the details of that are not important, but you can see that there's a lot of variability in the structure here, whether or not it's heating or cooling, how strongly it's heating or cooling and where exactly in the cloud that's happening. And you can imagine that this strong heating could have some pretty important impacts on how this cloud will evolve over time. So this is just one example of something we can get from these satellite measurements. And there are many other kind of pieces of information about cloud structure that have helped us understand the cloud lifecycle here. So with all this information, we kind of over the last five years or so developed a renewed process understanding of how these clouds form and evolve in the first place. And I'll just kind of briefly talk about what that is. We mentioned that a thunderstorm or convection in the atmosphere spits out a lot of cloudy air into the upper atmosphere where these clouds form. And within an hour or two of these clouds thin pretty rapidly due to some pretty fast processes that happen, such as large chunks of ice just falling out of the cloud. But then after a couple hours or so, a totally different set of processes take over mainly related to this radiative heating of the cloud. And these are much slower processes that tend to maintain the cloud over longer periods of time. So we have this time scale separation here between the early stages of the cloud and the later stages that really are going to have different impacts on the cloud as it evolves. So our question after after we tried to understand this life cycle was what it can tell us about how these clouds might respond to climate change. So one thing we know about a warmer world is that the rate of convective overturning in the tropics is going to slow down. So that means on average we're going to have less air being spit out by these storms into the upper troposphere. So that's not to say that any particular storm is less intense, but just that when we average over space and time, we're having less transport of mass upwards to the atmosphere by these storms. So the question we had after learning about this life cycle was whether or not these changes would be felt uniformly by this entire cloud system, right? If we have reduced storm cloud cover, does that translate exactly to reduced ANVO cloud cover? And that's going to matter because if these changes are not uniform, that could tip this radiative balance that I mentioned earlier in one way or the other. So we looked at this question using this great ensemble of high resolution atmospheric models. These are not models that are simulating the whole globe, but they're just kind of simulating a generic patch of ocean. And we just let convection happen in the atmosphere above. And this is a large intercomparison project. So a lot of different people conducted these experiments, but they all included warming experiments where we just raise the surface temperature of the ocean below. And that allowed us to generate this response function you can see on the bottom left here where this is just telling us at each point in the cloud lifecycle, how much does the area change as we warm up the surface? And you can see that it's quite non-uniform and that the sensitivity of the area of the cloud to these changes in the convective overturning or changes in surface temperature wanes as this cloud evolves throughout its lifecycle. So this tells us that the area of these clouds that have a cooling effect on climate might be tightly coupled to the rate of convection in the atmosphere. But the area of these thinner cirrus clouds that have a warming effect on climate seem to be more decoupled from the total rate of convective overturning. So this just kind of intuitively we thought is going to be a positive climate feedback, right? Because as we warm up the surface, we're preferentially getting rid of the clouds that have the strongest cooling effect. And that means the clouds that are left behind, so to speak, are going to be ones that have a, on average, a greater warming effect than before. So using this curve as well as lots of other information from these models, we were able to estimate this feedback that I showed you earlier. And indeed it is, it is slightly positive like we thought it would be from this response function. But at the end of the day, when we, when we consider the area of the tropics and the area of these cloud systems, it's quite small compared to other cloud feedback. So this is not some massive cloud feedback here, but it is a big change from what we previously thought these clouds would do. They're not going to provide the kind of mitigating effects to surface warming than we thought they might at different points in time. So this was kind of in the weeds and that's where I think most of scientists like to be is in the weeds on whatever particular issue we're studying. But of course, you want to think about the bigger picture here too. Why do we care about fine tuning these different cloud feedback values that can seem quite idiosyncratic at times? So ultimately, if we understand these feedbacks better, we're going to understand how much Earth might respond to different force changes. And by that, I mean changes in greenhouse gas concentrations, aerosols, or things like that. So under having a better estimate of these feedback values lets us better understand the total sensitivity of the climate to increases in carbon dioxide. This is just an example of that that you can see here where this is a probability density curve of equilibrium climate sensitivity. So that's just the change in surface temperature in response to a doubling of CO2 in the atmosphere. And you can see that this adjustment we made to this feedback had a noticeable effect on this curve. It told us we should expect slightly more warming in a world where the feedback has this very small but positive value than we would if it had this large negative value. And why do we care about this climate sensitivity parameter? Pick whatever climate change impact you care about. And it is odds are it's related in some way to climate sensitivity. If we expect the Earth to work more or less for some given amount of greenhouse gases, then that's going to exacerbate or mitigate certain impacts that we care about and need to prepare for. So ultimately trying to fine tune these cloud feedbacks is part of our much larger effort to prepare for the impacts we may feel from greenhouse gas concentrations. So I'll look ahead briefly to where we see cloud research going and the role that public funding plays in all of that. So this is the same picture I showed you from before of Florida with this traditional climate model grid overlaid. So we're kind of in the midst of a paradigm shift in the last five years or so and how we can study and simulate the atmosphere, especially with regard to clouds and convection. So over the last several years, we've seen the rise of what we call global storm resolving models. These are models that can simulate the entire planet, just like traditional climate models, but they do so at a very, very fine spatial scale like you can see in this grid on the right. And I think there should actually be even like twice as many lines here, but eventually it was just you couldn't really see anything. So I stopped where I did. But you can see that when the boxes are this small, if we were now to assign one color to each box, we're going to retain a lot of the structure of what's going on in this picture. Right. So this we no longer need to parameterize convection and clouds and models like this. So this is a really promising avenue for understanding how clouds may respond to changes in the circulation of the planet and how they affect climate overall. So these are very computationally intensive simulations to run, as you may imagine, with such a fine spatial scale. And we can now do those for around a year or so. So we can't use these models to do very long term climate projections like we can with traditional climate models. But that might be one day in the future or we can at least perform kind of more targeted experiments using models like this. So an example of one of these models and why public support for these initiatives is so important is the is the actual global storm resolving model. This is a model that I'm just starting to get my hands dirty with in my postdoc at Princeton. This model is written and maintained by NOAA's Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Lab in Princeton. And you can see in this animation of the model simulation that is such a remarkable level of detail. I think if you put this next to a satellite image of Earth, it wouldn't be so easy to pick out which one is real and which one is the model. Right. So it's models like this that are funded almost entirely by public support that are really going to be the future of of cloud and climate research. And that goes hand in hand with continued space observations. So this is a graphic from NASA about the planned AOS satellite mission, which is several instruments that are supposed to be launched hopefully later this decade. But this whole project is still going through various different kind of stages of approval and our continued support and investment in these space foreign measurements is really important if we want to have these continuous measurements of cloud on Earth, which are really necessary to understand how these systems might be changing as the Earth continues to evolve. So I'll stop there. And yeah, happy to chat more or take questions from people. Thank you, Adam. In fact, you've already answered some of the questions. There was a question in the chat asking if if there was a plan to replace Calypso and then getting more satellites out. And so here is the answer to that question. There are a couple of questions about the ice and the fact that there's ice falling from from clouds, you know, in the deep in the tropics. So, you know, how come we have ice in a tropical cloud? And, you know, is it really about we're talking so high in the atmosphere and and how big are these chunks of ice that we are talking about falling from the from the sky? Can you give us more details? Yeah, so that's a really great question, right? I've been talking all about ice clouds, but we're also talking about the tropics, which doesn't really make sense. We think of the tropics as warm and rainy and not somewhere that's covered in snow. So that's absolutely right that usually the ice that's falling from these clouds does not make it to the surface of the tropics as ice. Right. The tropics are not usually covered in snowfall, but the tropical atmosphere as you go up. We know that as you go up in the atmosphere, it gets colder and that's the tropics are no different. It's the same thing. And usually at around five kilometers or so, it's around three miles up in the atmosphere is where the freezing level is in the tropics. So that's generally higher than it might be in the mid latitudes where often the surface is below freezing itself if it's the wintertime or you don't have to go very high to get to much colder temperatures. So one very interesting aspect of the tropical atmosphere is that if you take the annual average of temperature at every point in the atmosphere around the whole planet, the tropical upper troposphere where these clouds form is actually the coldest part of the atmosphere. It's colder than the average mean temperature over Antarctica or over the North Pole. That's not necessarily true if you look at individual seasons, but if you look at the entire year, that's true. So you get these very cold icy clouds that form in the tropics. And what happens is as that ice falls, it'll just melt and turn to rain, which will either follow the surface as rain or evaporate on its way down, in which case it might not rain at all. So that's especially true for these large anvil clouds. There may be ice falling out of them, but it's not usually raining at the surface underneath. And there's a question about how big these ice crystals are, and it can vary. I think in convective storms, you can get hail. And we've all seen pictures of large hail stones that fall. But on average, these these ice crystals are much smaller on the order of like 10 micrometers or so. So very small, hard to see individually. And and I'm going to add, even with these high resolution models, we're never going to actually resolve the microphysical clouds. So that's that's an interesting new frontier to. Absolutely. Yeah. These models can explicitly simulate convection and the evolution of kind of the macroscopic evolution of these clouds. But they are not solving this problem of cloud microphysics in the models. And that's still even with these high resolution models is going to be a large source of uncertainty moving forward is trying to represent these processes happening on small on scales that we can't even see in these three kilometer grid boxes of these high resolution models. Yeah. Okay. Another question from Michael Evans there. You've talked about radiative impact and but you know what is the impact of low level clouds, for example? That's a really great question. So, yeah, so I mentioned we have these shortwave and longwave effects or these cooling and warming effects of clouds on the planet. And for these high clouds, both of them are important like we like we talked about, but for low clouds, it's somewhat different. So low clouds are very bright, meaning they reflect a lot of sunlight back into space and they do have the same infrared warming effect. But it's just in general much, much weaker than we would find in high clouds. And that's exactly for the reason Michael saying in this question is because these clouds are pretty warm. They're not the same exact temperature at the surface, these low clouds, but they're pretty close to the surface temperature. So these low clouds are emitting the infrared radiation. Sorry, they're absorbing the infrared radiation from the surface and they're emitting their own infrared radiation. But the difference in energy between those two things is not as big as it is for high clouds because they're at a much similar temperature. And how much energy a cloud emits basically depends on what temperature it is. So there is some long wave effect of low clouds. But in general, it's not nearly as important as the short wave effect. Okay, so we are coming up on the hours. There's a very interesting question about geoengineering. But can you answer a question about geoengineering in 30 seconds? The challenge of the year. Have you had a look at geoengineering like those that want to more reflection from clouds? Yeah, so there are a few different kind of proposals people had of how to do geoengineering using clouds. One of those is by brightening these low clouds that form over the oceans. That's called marine cloud brightening where you people think you can maybe inject salt aerosols into these clouds that would brighten them and reflect more sunlight to space. And people have also proposed ideas of how to affect cirrus clouds, these high altitude clouds. If you can cloud seed at these very high levels of the atmosphere, it might change the microphysical properties of the cloud in such a way that they last for longer or shorter periods of time and have different impacts on the energy budget. So these are all things that are associated with a lot of uncertainty for the reason you mentioned earlier, Michaela, because we need to know a lot more about how the microphysics of these clouds works. Before we can kind of fully understand whether or not this geoengineering strategy, either of these two strategies would work and how effective they would be. All right, so a lot more research needed. Thank you so very much, Adam. This was a great talk. And this also concludes my time here as a host. I'm going to give the floor now. Oh, we're still here we go. We're still showing your slides. People want to look more at clouds. They are beautiful. But so thanks, Adam, again. I appreciate and I've learned a lot from you. Always there's there's more to learn in these talks. Somebody was saying in the chat that they would like to see these talks archived. For now, you can go to wclivestream.com slash catch up and that will give you access to the talks that we've been hearing from earlier this Wednesday and all the way through Sunday. So if you're joining us right now, thank you for for coming to the live stream. We are we are here with the purpose. We want to make sure that we support our climate and weather enterprise. So please stay with us. Spread the word and go to wclivestream.com slash act to call your representatives. And so that's my last word before I welcome as the new host here. Stella Heflin Stella. Hi. Yeah, thank you so much. Hello, everyone. Yeah, I'll be your host for our 45. Thank you so much, Michaela. I as she said, my name is Stella Heflin. I'm a Ph.D. student at the University of Washington in the Department of Atmospheric and Climate Science. I study rain in the tropics and we've seen a lot of great talk so far. And the next speaker I'm here to introduce is absolutely no exception. Before I introduce them, I want to give a brief reminder that all speakers are appearing in their personal capacities and expressing their own views, which may or may not be the views of other participants. However, we are here with a purpose, as Michaela said, Americans deserve good weather and good climate forecasts. And for many years, U.S. scientists have been world leaders in weather and climate prediction. Just to recollect, we've developed some of the first computerized weather forecasts, the first computer models of the climate impacts of carbon pollution. We've been a forefront at the we've been at the forefront of the field for many years. And this excellence is because of the investment by you, the public. And so U.S. federal funding for science is so essential. And we're here because funding cuts are affecting all areas of weather and climate science in this country. And so as you can see at the bottom of the screen, we have this banner, Call Your Representatives. Visit WCLivestream.com slash act. It will take you to a five call script to call your senators and representatives. So I highly encourage you to do that. I know it's a little bit scary, but the script really helps. And sometimes you get the voicemail and can just talk to the voicemail and let them know what you're doing. And let them know what you're thinking and really encourage you to take a take a second and do that. But pause on that for a second, because I'm here to introduce our next speaker, which is Dr. Bart Geerts. And Dr. Geerts is a professor in atmospheric science at the University of Wyoming. And he is going to be talking about weather and climate research in Wyoming. So take it away, Dr. Geerts. Yes. Good morning, Stella. Good morning, everyone. Are you OK? All right. Yeah. Well, very good. Must be quite early in Seattle. I did my PhD at the University of Washington as well back in the 1980s. So I'm going to talk about a different state. Another one, another UW that is University of Wyoming. And just in general, I'm sharing my slides here. So I may well be the only one representing Wyoming here. And so a few words about Wyoming. Wyoming. It is the least populated state of all. You can see it here in that chart at the very bottom. It's just about half a million people. It's in the central Rockies, some beautiful national parks. It is fairly elevated. Second highest after Colorado, 6,700 feet average elevation. It's also one of the driest states with just 13.2 inches of annual precipitation. Most of that falls as snow. And it's relatively cold on average, 44 Fahrenheit. Also one of the coldest states in the US. It is a relatively, per capita at least, wealthy state. It extracts a lot of royalties from the minerals industry, fossil fuels especially. It exports a lot of coal still, as well as natural gas and oil. And as it turns out, the royalties of those exports help the University of Wyoming. The University of Wyoming itself is one of the more endowed universities in the nation per student. State supported. It is a land grant university. federal people or  hatungen of the living site, quite similar to captivating. So, I just mentioned also that the opinions and facts that I present here are my own. but I don't represent the university directly in what I share here. So the University of Wyoming, it's the only university, master's and PhD offering university in the whole state. It is located in Laramie at an elevation of 7,200 feet. Laramie is a college town, a beautiful college town, population about 30,000. Student population is small compared to many other land-grant universities, including University of Washington, with just 13,000 students. Many of those are graduate students. Summers are really beautiful, dry. It's an island of relatively mild temperatures, I guess. It's the highest campus in the lower 48 in the US in general at 7,200 feet. So you can imagine it's quite dry with some afternoon thunderstorms occasionally. Most of that water evaporates and in the spring, it snows. It's our wet season, the spring, and it's the source of most of the soil moisture. What is there to do? Well, the winters are long, so there's a lot of opportunity for outdoor recreation in the mountains. In the summer too, there's a lot of outdoor activities, rivers and mountains beckon. So the Department of Atmospheric Sciences itself is relatively small, the seven faculty. We have 25 graduate students. We're in the College of Engineering and Applied Sciences. And we are a graduate-only program. And we have a unique opportunity, really, to have, I guess, privileged access to two facilities that are supported by the National Science Foundation. One of them is an aircraft that I'll talk about, the University of Wyoming King Air. And the other one is the NCAR Wyoming supercomputer center that we have privileged access to. So Wyoming, I did not mention this, but it's also a red state. It's the most red state, probably, with over 70% of the votes going to Trump in the last election. So it's an important context. So this aircraft I mentioned, the next generation Wyoming King Air was just certified. We had an aircraft before that. We've been in the business of airborne atmospheric research since the beginning, so to speak, originally funded by the Bureau of Reclamation. Other universities, including University of Washington, had a research aircraft too in the 1970s and later. But we're the only one surviving, at least university-based. And we are sponsored entirely by the National Science Foundation. University of Wyoming, and the old aircraft that was built in 1977 was decommissioned in 22. And we received a grant from NSF, a Mid-Scale Research Infrastructure Award for $15.8 million to build the next generation aircraft that you can see there in the background. It was purchased by the University, owned by the University, but all the modifications were done at the expense of this grant from NSF. And then the certification process itself was quite a complicated, time-consuming, five-year project that we just completed. And we operate through a cooperative agreement with NSF, about $2.5 million per year. Here you can see the new aircraft in the shop being modified. In addition to all the modifications to the aircraft, new ports, outputs, fixed points for external instruments, open path instruments on the wing, extended nose, gust probe, etc. And in addition, there are a number of new instruments, especially two new LIDARs, and Raman LIDAR and Doppler LIDAR, two new cloud radars, one at W, one at KA band, trace gas and aerosol instrumentation, state-of-the-art, and then high-speed satellite communication to develop and enable an immersive environment for science engagement and training. And we are a sister group in that regard with the National Center for Atmospheric Research based in Boulder, about two hours south of Laramie. NCAR has a research aviation facility. They operate two aircraft, the NSF NCAR C-130, that we took to Kiruna Sweden last year, actually, for study of Arctic clouds. And then the other aircraft is a G5 and RAF management position was open. I personally accepted that position. And I was slated to start there, actually, last week. And it didn't happen. Essentially, the position has been postponed because of uncertainty in the budget of NSF, which funds NCAR as well. NCAR's EOL, Earth Observing Lab, has a lot of instruments, ground-based instruments also, radars, profiling systems, flux systems. And all this is in support of what's called the FAIR, the Facilities for Atmospheric Research and Education, a program that NSF sponsors to enable the NSF-100 community to do observational atmospheric research. And with uncertainty in budget for FY26, essentially, the paths for growth have been closed and different scenarios are being considered as to how to proceed. In Wyoming, back to Wyoming, we also do a lot of modeling work. We have unparalleled access to the Supercomputer Center, which is also funded by NSF. Operation cost is on the order of $8 million per year. Most of that is paid by NSF and one-seventh paid by the state of Wyoming. It is a very important computer for a variety of activities, including the US contribution to the coupled model intercomparison project that informs the international panel for climate change reporting. CESM models, for instance, the large ensemble models were run on it and many other simulations, including one shown here of wildfire spread in the Los Angeles area. The Eaton fire of January 25 simulated here, courtesy of one of our faculty and very aspiring assistant professor Stefan Rahimi, who is an extensive user of the supercomputing capabilities. Because the state of Wyoming contributes one-seventh, we also get one-seventh of the compute power, the state of Wyoming. And that really allows us to do a lot of things, including, for instance, the running of a 1.3-kilometer climate simulation over an eight-year period, 40 years historical, 40 years future, using pseudo-global warming driven by QONUS 404 to better capture the mountain precipitation and snowpack, warm season convection, convection permitting warmth simulation, and capture extreme precipitation, flash flood potential, etc. Compute cost is on the order of 60 million quarter hours on the Rachel computer, which corresponds to roughly 360k. It's something that's part of this Wyoming allocation to the supercomputer. The work we are doing here is part of the NSF Ascent engine. It's one of the, let's see, eight or nine different engines that NSF, the TIP Directorate Technology Innovation and Partnership that was created under the Biden administration, that TIP Directorate is funding this engine at 160 million over 10 years with various milestones to be achieved in order to proceed through this 10-year period. The TIP Directorate funding apparently has not been interrupted under current guidelines from NSF. The Directorate is still intact and in fact they're moving towards the next phase of funding, unlike the NSF AGS Directorate, which it no longer exists and it's not quite clear where the airborne facilities for instance or FAIR in general will end up in the organization of NSF and to what extent they will be funded in a slimmer NSF. So these simulations are very important for many stakeholders and end users that we plan to work with. Another project that is also NSF funded and is very much based in Wyoming, is called WIACT, Wyoming Anticipating the Climate Transition. That's a 20 million dollar project over five years and one of the co-PIs. It was funded by what's called EPSCOR and EPSCOR is a program that all federal agencies have. It's an experimental program to stimulate competitive research. Washington, for instance, is not an EPSCOR state, but Wyoming and many other red states, about 23 states in total are EPSCOR states and they are selected because they receive relatively little federal research funding because they don't have national labs like NCAR for instance or cooperative agreements with NOAA. We don't have that in Wyoming. The closest we have is our small group of about 18 people that supports the King Air as a national facility, the Wyoming King Air. Anyway, EPSCOR. So we have the EPSCOR program, including NSF EPSCOR and NSF EPSCOR support this interdisciplinary climate related research. The acronym there, WIACT, is a bit cheeky and maybe under the current climate, not appropriate, but we haven't changed that yet. It's really about the transition in the climate and it focuses on water availability as climate warms. Proportionally more precipitation will fall as rain rather than snow, as well, even in Wyoming. And that reduces the snowpack and therefore the storage of water in the mountains for agricultural and other use during the warm season. And that also alters the ecosystems and wildfire characteristics and wildfire season. And so a lot of people are interested in this. In fact, we brought together people from a variety of disciplines, not just atmospheric scientists, but also botanists, ecologists, soil scientists, fish aquatics, aquatic ecology, and and even socioeconomic partners. Altogether 16 faculty with many graduate student postdoc research scientists working on this. Basic rationale is that the interior is warming faster actually than the coastal areas. In fact, the interior Wyoming will warm at about an amplification of 1.5. So instead of 2 it will be more like 3 Celsius warmer, annual mean temperature. And in fact, much of that is in the cold season when most of the precipitation falls and the phase of the precipitation is going to be more affected. And with a higher global warming level, according to the CMIP6 models, you see more of that amplification. So we propose this Y-Act as a combined observational and modeling effort to build better mitigation strategies, better planning and adaptive capacity. Better preparedness, for instance, for wildfires. And so much of what we do is based on modeling driven by CMIP6. Climate information, which we downscale dynamically to resolutions of 9 kilometers initially and gone down to 3 kilometers and all the way down to 1.3 kilometers, as I mentioned earlier. In the region of interest, dynamic vegetation simulations, we do further downscaling using Wharf Hydro to predict stream flow variations in the and managed streams and then lake ecosystem simulations. And then there's even social economic modeling. So very coupled activities. There's a strong component of diversity. The state of Wyoming is sparsely populated, as I mentioned, there's vast areas that are actually owned by and managed by native American tribes. So one of the initiatives is a buffalo initiative, reintroduction of buffaloes on land that has been grazed by cattle before buffalo need less water. They can go without water for a longer time period. Much of the effort actually revolves around stream bed and the reconstruction allowing natural streams to to be less disturbed. And so that part, also our Latinx involvement has been somewhat questioned in the recent activities at the federal level in Washington DC. And on the 10th of May, we were disallowed any expenditures effective immediately. Caused some panic, we couldn't spend anything. That ban then was cancelled just two days later. In fact, the ban on EBSCOR spending is being abdicated to court, judicial system. There is a pause, a current pause on year four funding. We were slated to start our last or penultimate year, year four out of a five-year period, on the 1st of June. But that's now on pause. The pause is still in effect, which is unfortunate because most of the YACT research happens in the summer. So at this time, we're still spending the year three, the people involved, some 35 people, are pretty uncertain as to what is going to happen next. So, that's just an illustration of the type of research that we do in Wyoming. As you can see, much of that is NSF funded. There's some NOAA funding as well, NASA, DOE. But really, University of Wyoming being the only research university in the state is for a large fraction funded by NSF. And NSF's budget in the next fiscal year is highly uncertain. The House has passed a budget that essentially follows the White House recommendation of a very significant cut to NSF. After all, pretty worried that's what may happen next. So I'll leave it with that and open the floor to questions. Thank you so much. That was a great presentation. I learned a lot about what's happening in the state of Wyoming. And I guess I see some follow-up questions from the audience. So someone just asked, why does most YACT research happen in the summer? Could you explain a little bit more about that timeline? Yeah, especially the ecologists, botanists, aquatic ecologists, they do their field work in the summer. Because I guess you can then do outdoor work. That's when vegetation comes to life. The streams are not frozen. There's relatively little work going on in the winter, as it turns out, field work. Perhaps also because we have a nine-month academic year. Summer is in general the period of field research. Yeah, for people with their boots on the ground, these various ecologists, that's when they're out in the field. Not so much in atmospheric sciences. We do field work any time of the year. Yeah, it makes sense. Thank you. Another person asked if any part of the data that you're talking about, I think they were asking when you were talking about aircraft, if that's available to the public in any way. Yeah. All the data we collect with the King Air, and in general, the data collected under the FAIR program are public domain. There are strict rules that NSF has on sharing the data. These are quality assessed and controlled data. Basically, the final products that are available to the investigators also become public domain after a short quarantine period. And I can maybe enter the place on the chat here as to where to find it. But it's basically type in say NCAR field campaigns. And there's a long list of them and all the data are available in a data archive. And there's a lot of imagery available as well to help orient as to what data were collected on what day is, and underwater weather conditions, all these real time weather observations and satellite products and model output. They're all available on a field catalog that goes back to specific field campaigns. Yeah, sounds good. Yeah. So that data is available publicly. We can try to get a link in the chat. Yeah. So, yeah. I think that's all about that. It seems like a lot of folks are really interested in the Yellowstone to Yukon wildlife corridor. I don't know if you're familiar with that, and asking about if there's any climate research being done in Wyoming related to that area. Yeah, very much so. The WIACT group is centered on the southern part of that corridor, the Greater Yellowstone ecosystem, which is in Wyoming down to the Wind River range. It very much includes Yellowstone, Grand Ito National Park, and that's where much of the research happens. Even Don Laramie is in the southeastern, the opposite part of the state. And so we're working currently on a climate assessment, an updated climate assessment for the Greater Yellowstone ecosystem, in particular, the upper snake area. And that it's very interdisciplinary as well. We focus on the climate aspect, the other side of the state. But then there's people working on changes in the snowpack, soil moisture, wildfire behavior, and changes in plant characteristics, animal populations, etc. It's a very integrated climate assessment we're involved with. It's new for me. I'm very much an atmospheric scientist. But working with all these people in an interdisciplinary connected way is fascinating. Absolutely. Yeah, that's super cool. I guess maybe one question that I had for you personally is with the King Air and the field campaigns, where's the coolest place that you've flown that aircraft and collected data? Let's see. In the proximity of severe weather in the Great Plains, probably back in 2015, we had a campaign called Pecan Plains, elevated convection at night. Pecan. And we flew the King Air near these large, you know, mediscale convective systems, looking for outflow boundary characteristics, the density currents and sometimes undular bores that develop, and maybe instrumental in the maintenance of these MCS's at night. Much of the precipitation in the Great Plains, High Plains falls at night, because of these MCS's that are supported by low level jet traveling over a stable nocturnal boundary layer. And it was just fascinating to see all that lightning there and then flying towards the storm, being guided by relatively poor quality onboard radar data. And we had some real time composite radar display from the Nixrad radars as well, but it had some latency. So, trying to navigate coming as close as possible to really sample the outflow boundary, but not too close to the storm because, you know, the aircraft is really not equipped to deal with lightning and all the turbines that may exist in thunderstorms. So, that was a fun, cool environment. Pretty exhausting as well. Absolutely. Yeah. Thank you so much. Well, yeah. So, I think we're going to go ahead and hand it off to the next speaker here. Before we do, I just wanted to say thank you again to Dr. Geertsen. Also, as a personal note, I've been reading your papers for years. I study mesoscale convective systems and I'm just really grateful to have had you on the call and to hear about the research going on. Thank you for doing all this, Stella. Okay. Of course. Yeah. Thanks so much. All right. So, if you're just tuning in, welcome. We're on hour 45. And we're going to go ahead and introduce the next speaker in a second, but before we do, just want to go ahead and say hello again. I'm Stella Heflin, if you're just tuning in. I'm a PhD student at the University of Washington studying climate science and rain in the tropics specifically. That was a great talk by Dr. Geerts and this next speaker is absolutely no exception to the great lineup we've got going here. A brief reminder that all of our speakers are appearing in personal capacities and are expressing their own views, which may not be the views of other participants. And we're here with the purpose that Americans deserve good weather and climate forecasts, and we need to protect federal funding for science in the United States. So, we have this banner going across the screen. Visit wclivestream.com slash act and call your representatives, let them know that you care about weather in climate science. And with that said, I want to go ahead and introduce our upcoming speaker. The speaker is Dr. Alex Turner, who is a professor at the University of Washington. So, he's actually one of my professors. He taught the first class I took in graduate school here. It's really special to get to have him on. Good morning, Alex. It's pretty early here for both of us. 6.30 a.m. Great time to be doing climate science. And he talked the title of his talk. Alex loves a good punny talk title. The title of his talk is Atmospheric Methane, Where Did You Come From? Where Did You Go? So, take it away, Alex. Yeah. Thanks for the introduction. It's nice to see someone else up in the morning on the west coast here. And yeah, so I guess if you take nothing else away from my talk, I hope at least some of you get the Cotton Eye Joe song stuck in your head. And I'll talk about atmospheric methane, Where Did You Come From? Where Did You Go? And this title slide is, I really like this slide in particular because it sort of shows some of the sources of methane that are often very intermingled. And there's often debate as to the rise in methane coming from things like oil and gas or livestock. And today I'm going to talk about some of these sources and one of the problems that we've investigated on this. So I'm assuming many people here know the rise in CO2 and have seen the classic Keeling curve. What a lot of people may not realize or have seen is the methane curve, which is shown here. So I'm showing the top of the observations of methane going back to the 1980s from NOAA. And we see this rise in the early 1980s through the 1990s. And then this stabilization here in the 2000s. On the bottom panel, I'm showing the time derivative of methane or the rate of change of methane in the atmosphere. And so we see that during the stabilization period, the growth rate is basically zero or constant in the atmosphere. Following that, we actually see the fastest growth in atmospheric methane occurring in 2020 and 2021, roughly coinciding with the onset of COVID. And so there's often questions about what is the role of COVID in this rise. And there's also this sort of little blip here or this change in the growth rate back in the 1990s, which we term sort of the methane slowdown. And so methane is the second most important greenhouse gas. But part of what fascinates me about it is that it's got some sort of uncertain or enigmatic trends in the atmosphere. And a lot of my work has tried to understand what's caused the stabilization of methane, the acceleration. And today I'm going to talk about this slowdown of methane in the atmosphere. And really the longstanding hypothesis for this is that it was driven by the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991. And so the idea is that the USSR collapsed, which led to a decrease in oil and gas production. And consequently, we had less emissions of methane to the atmosphere. And we've done some work over the past couple of years reinvestigating this. And what I want to talk about specifically today is some work that we published last year, addressing the question of how did the USSR collapse affect oil and gas emissions from Turkmenistan. And this was work published in PNAS last year, and it was really led by my postdoc, Tai Long He, who's now at Harvard, and an undergraduate in my group, Ryan Boyd, who's now a PhD student at Princeton. And the work is titled, Increased Methane Emissions from Whaling Gas Following the Soviet Union's Collapse. So as a very brief primer, part of what we did was use some satellite data. And I'm going to show one figure from this Verone et al. paper in AMT in 2021. And what's shown here is the optical depth of three different molecules, and the x-axis shows the wavelength. So it's really how much light is being absorbed by these different molecules. So for example, we can see strong absorption from methane and black here right around 2200 nanometers. We also seen some absorption from methane around 16 to 1700 nanometers. We see CO2 absorption features. And really, these are wavelengths where these greenhouse gases absorb light from the sun, or sorry, absorb light from the earth, and also the sun. And what's interesting, or what this Verone et al. paper noted, is that this methane feature coincided with some of the bands that Sentinel-2 measures. So here's band 11. And what band 11 measures is the average radiance over these hundreds of nanometers, nanometers. And band 12 similarly measures the average radiance over this gray shaded region. And so what they did was they showed that you could use something similar to NDVI for those of you that might be ecologists, where you basically look at a normalized difference between these band ratios. So we take the difference between band 12 minus band 11, and then normalize it by band 11. And what's shown here on the bottom are the images from the Hasi-Mesaoud oil field in Algeria in November 2019. So on the left is the image from band 11. So this is the satellite imagery from Sentinel-2. In the middle panel is from band 11. And on the right is showing that sort of normalized difference metric. And this little red feature here in the middle is a methane plume coming from oil and gas well at roughly 20 meter spatial resolution. And so by looking at this sort of normalized difference, we can actually observe methane plumes from individual facilities like this oil field in Algeria. And so it's a pretty exciting result because it really allowed us to use these satellites that were really designed to study land surface processes like vegetation and have a really long history. So they're much higher spatial resolution than we typically use in atmospheric chemistry. And so it's pretty exciting because we get much finer resolution than we previously had and can again observe things from individual facilities like this one in the oil field in Algeria. And so this has been kind of a revolution in methane. And a lot of people have focused on using these satellite measurements from, for example, Sentinel-2A and Sentinel-2B to understand point sources of methane to the atmosphere. The exact same instrument also exists on Landsat 8. And we also have measurements from Landsat 9. What I was pretty excited about is actually Landsat 7 and Landsat 5 also have this same instrument. And so we actually have measurements of methane going back to the 1980s. And what my group wanted to do is use these old measurements to reinvestigate some trends and causes for these variations in atmospheric methane. So specifically what I'm going to talk about today is using historical data from Landsat 5 to reinvestigate the cause of this slowdown in methane back in the 1990s. And so our goal is to use Landsat 5 to provide new information on the drivers of this methane slowdown back in the 1990s. So really what this comes down to is kind of a computer vision problem. So what I'm showing here on the left is a RGB image of this Hassi-Messoud oil field in Algeria. And in the RGB scene, we don't really see anything. And that's because methane is transparent in the visible. But if we look in this sort of DR or that normalized difference space, we observe this methane plume here as this light red feature. And so really what we want to do is find methane plumes that exist in this DR, but are transparent in the visible. In contrast, if I look a couple of kilometers away, we observe something again in the DR that is this positive feature that looks like a plume in the atmosphere. But we also see the same feature in the RGB or in the visible. And so this actually is smoke. So this is actually would be a false methane plume. And so really what we want to do is identify plume-like features that are present in the shortwave infrared, but are not present in, for example, the RGB. So what my group has done is we developed an automated deep learning method for identifying these methane plumes from this large satellite data set. So some of the inputs to it, so we're using for those that are interested, we're using a unit architecture with transfer learning. So the inputs are things like the DR that I showed. We've also computed automated backgrounds to reduce the noise. We use the RGB, for example, because that might indicate a false plume. We're also using other sort of classic land surface imaging measurements like NDVI, because we don't want our plumes to be co-located with vegetation, because that might again be a false detection. We also developed our own slightly different normalized difference index, which we're calling the normalized difference methane index. And we're also using a metric for clouds to avoid observing clouds. But the ultimate goal is that we want to find where in some scene there is a methane plume if one exists. So we're using human labeled training data. So what this essentially means, we hired a number of undergrads to hand label images in the modern and use that as training data for our satellite. And then we also use data augmentation to increase the overall data volume we have, because we're still pretty data limited. And one of the key points we did here is actually add noise to these scenes. I mentioned we're using Landsat 5, which is a much older satellite. And so actually the data from Landsat 5 is quite a bit noisier than what we get in the modern, where a lot of people have used this Landsat imagery. And so we add noise to the training data to make it more representative of what Landsat 5 might have observed back in the 1980s, for example. And then finally what we're doing is we're actually using an ensemble of deep learning models to get a probabilistic estimate of what that plume structure looks like. So for example, we might use some subset of data to train a model number one, which might give a spatial mask for the plume that looks like this. If we use a different subset of the data, we'll get a model that predicts a plume structure that looks like this. And then based on that ensemble of plume structures, we have an idea of where the models are most confident in there being a methane plume in the atmosphere. And again, the overall goal here is to take some historical satellite imagery and identify where in that scene there is a plume, if there is one. So it really comes down to an image segmentation problem. So this is an example of a couple plumes that we detected. So on the bottom left here, this is a scene from Turkmenistan. This is on the coast of the Caspian Sea here. And this is one kilometer spatial bar. And this is the DR or the difference in reflectance from the satellite. And what I'm showing here in the middle panel, we then run a radiative transfer model to infer how much methane there actually might be in this scene. And this contours show the mask that our machine learning approach has identified as the mask for the plume. So here you can see the plume is sort of strongly detected in the middle. And you can kind of also see this pattern in the DR on the left. And on the right, we take this plume and use information about the wind speed and compute the estimated emissions from this particular source. And so in this case, this plume was from February 20th, 1998. And it was emitting about seven and a half tons of methane per hour. And you can see the plume overlaid on a true color image in the background there. So this is a pretty prominent plume that you can see. The one on the top is quite a bit fainter. You can kind of see the plume right here. And this is on sort of the northern border of Turkmenistan. And it's again a faint scene here. And you can see it's pretty noisy in the background again. But what's kind of exciting about this plume is this was from April 28th, 1986. And it's actually one of the oldest methane plumes ever observed from space. So I think it's pretty cool because actually we have we didn't really realize it. But we had methane observations going back to the 1980s. And it's been pretty cool looking way back in time and observing these really old methane plumes. So one thing that we started to notice is that we were noticing systematic plumes from certain locations that were really repeating for many, many years. So what I'm zooming in now, zooming in on now is the Barcel-Gelmez oil field again on the coast of the Caspian Sea here in Turkmenistan. And this is an example of a plume from February from November 4th, 1990 that was emitting nine tons of methane per hour. The plume was right about here and the wind was coming from the south. Two years later we see another plume from the same location again wind coming from the south. This time only emitting about three tons per hour. Two years later in June 1994 we're seeing plume. In 1987 we see a plume. In 2009 we see a plume. In 2010 we see a plume. And so really what we're observing were these systematic large leaks. These were not just sort of one-off leaks. These were leaks that were often occurring for decades or really repeated for long points in time. And so what I had my postdoc do was look at the number of detections we would see in sort of a one kilometer box. And so what's shown is the histogram here on the right is the number of detections we saw for a one kilometer box over the Barcel-Gelmez oil field. And what I really want to draw your attention to is this orange line, which is the percentage of clear sky scenes that we observe a plume. So for this method to work we need the it to be cloud free or clear sky. And what you'll notice is that we observe a clear sky, sorry, observe a plume in roughly zero to twenty percent of the clear sky scenes up until about 1991. Then in 1992 we start detecting methane plumes in 80 to 100 percent of the clear sky scenes. And that persisted all the way through 1999. So we were observing plumes in 80 to 100 percent of the clear sky imagery from 1992 to 1999. And in particular from 1995 to 1999 we observed it in all but one of the clear sky scenes. Stepping back a little bit, the question that I posed at the beginning was how did the USSR collapse affect oil and gas emissions from Turkmenistan? And so what's shown here is a time series of the dry gas production for Turkmenistan. I will say some of this is a little bit uncertain. The economic data for Turkmenistan pre and post Soviet Union collapse has been tricky to get, but this is the best estimates we're able to find. And so we see dry gas production of roughly fairly high in the early 90s and late 80s and then it drops rapidly following the collapse of the Soviet Union. What's shown here in blue are the number of detections per year over Turkmenistan. And you can already start to see there seems to be a bit of an anti-correlation between the dry gas production and the number of methane plumes we're detecting. However, there are some potential aliasing or artifacts in the raw number of plumes because we have different amounts of clear sky scenes. And so I had my postdoc develop sort of a coverage adjusted number, which accounts for the amount of sort of clear sky scenes and the different viewing geometries we had for that region. And so what we see is that in the coverage adjusted number of detections, the most plumes we observe occurred in 1994. And then we also see the second most occurring in 1998, which is actually when the oil and gas production was at a minimum for Turkmenistan. What I ultimately want to look at is the overall emissions. So we can then take these detections and compute the methane emissions to the atmosphere. And that's what's shown here on the bottom. This is an estimate of the point source emissions from all these plumes we've detected. And again, we see that spike occurring in 1994, which is the year I've mentioned a couple of times now. And this year is actually pretty important in part because 1994 was the year that Russia blocked Turkmenistan from using their pipelines to sell gas to European markets. And so what we think was happening is that essentially most of the Soviet Union was hit really hard by the economic collapse. Russia was no longer allowing Turkmenistan to use their pipelines to sell their gas to European markets. And so they simply vented it to the atmosphere or we had much larger leaks occurring. And so at least from like a geopolitical perspective, this spike in 1994 seems to make sense of what we'd expect. We then can also take these emissions and back out sort of the estimated leak rate to the atmosphere, which is shown in orange. And what we're finding is that the leak rate to the atmosphere was roughly one to 2% prior to 1992. Then right around the collapse in 1992, it jumps up to upwards of 5% plus, and in some years potentially as high as 15%, meaning that 15% of the gas they extracted might be vented to the atmosphere over the entirety of Turkmenistan, which was pretty shocking to us. So really some of the takeaways here that the collapse of the Soviet Union, we think, led to an increase in methane emissions. And we're observing more frequent and larger plumes. We're observing a national loss rate of 5% to 10% Turkmenistan. And we think it was largely driven by less oversight and less regulation, and just a general breakdown of infrastructure and things being vented to the atmosphere. So what we sort of did here was use historical satellite data to investigate the role of this USSR collapse on these methane trends. And what we're finding is kind of in contrast to that long-standing hypothesis that the collapse would lead to a decline in methane emissions. What we ended up doing is detecting about 776 methane plumes over Turkmenistan from 1986 to 2012. And we're finding that detections, emissions, and the loss rate all increase after the collapse of the USSR. So all this kind of begs the question then, what drove the methane slowdown? And actually, spoiler, I don't actually know right now, but something we're still actively investigating. And as an aside, we're also doing an ice core campaign to Greenland next year to make some additional historical measurements that might help tease out some of this story. But going back to sort of the title slide here, this is that time series of methane where I showed some of the variations in methane in the atmosphere. And what I talked about today was sort of this USSR story. And I think, again, kind of what fascinates me about methane is that there's a lot of uncertainty in what's causing these variations in atmospheric methane. I mentioned the uncertainty about the rise or the slowdown in 1992. But there's competing hypotheses for what caused this stabilization in the mid-2000s, with major hypotheses being it was driven by changes in wetland emissions, which depend on climate. It was driven by fossil sources, which would depend on human activity, or it could have been driven by changes in tropospheric chemistry, or the main oxidant of the atmosphere, OH. And then finally, this rise in 2020 and 2019, the fastest rise you've ever observed in atmospheric methane coincides with the onset of COVID. So there's a lot of questions about how COVID might have affected atmospheric methane there. But I guess in terms of sort of understanding this work, one thing that really underpins our ability to investigate this are the long-term observations of these important greenhouse gases like methane. And these are really only possible because of the sustained funding for places like NOAA, who are the ones that really collect and make these measurements. So even though I don't actually personally make these measurements of methane, I'm really, my research is really facilitated by that long, the long sustained funding for the NOAA Greenhouse Gas Program. So yeah, that's what I had for today. Happy to take any questions or comments. Thanks so much, Alex. This is great. People are really excited about sleuthing for methane in the comments. There's a bunch of really great questions from folks. So if I don't get to your question first, I'll try to get to it as I scroll through the things I've starred. Someone just asked a follow-up question. I'm going to go to it because you just talked about your field campaign in Greenland. And I guess people are asking if you have any theories or hypotheses for what you might see there. Yeah. I mean, so I think in terms of the driver of this slowdown, my main hypothesis is probably driven by things like wetlands. Wetlands are one of the biggest uncertainties in methane. They're globally, they're the single largest source. They depend on climate and precipitation, and they're often located in hard to reach areas like the tropics and also high boreal regions. So they're really one of the biggest levers on the methane budget, and they depend on climate and overall weather. So they're one of the sort of elephants in the room for methane. So what we're doing for that Greenland campaign is actually going to make new ice core measurements that will help tell us about particular sources and sinks of methane. For example, there is one measurement that we're making that will tell us about how the oxidative capacity or the chemistry of the atmosphere has changed. And it's a pretty tricky measurement to make, but we're pretty excited because it'll be the first northern hemispheric measurements of that. And it might tell us something about how chemistry could have played a role in these variations in methane. But to your question, I think I don't actually know what the answer will be, which I'm kind of excited about. Cool. Thanks so much. Let's see. So I guess someone asked about, people are interested in the sources of methane, and someone asked about the cow on your cover slide, and asking how much cows contribute to methane emissions. So that's a good question. So let's see, globally, I forget the number. I don't have it shown here. I think my US number estimate is that livestock is roughly 30 percent or so of the US anthropogenic emissions. I think globally, it's probably in the order of like 10 to 15 percent. I don't have that particular slide in my deck here. But livestock is considered to be a fairly important source globally. And it potentially has been an increasing source over the past few decades. So one of the things that's kind of fascinating about methane is that, unlike CO2, the sources are just broadly more enigmatic. Like, as I mentioned, the biggest source globally is the wetlands. But other sources are things like fossil fuels, but it's not just combustion of fossil fuels. With CO2, if you know roughly how much gasoline was sold, you know roughly how much CO2 you should be getting. With methane, it's oftentimes like fugitive leaks from the oil and gas system, which are inherently harder to quantify. Similar for livestock, it depends on biology, and it depends on the microbes in the gut of the cow. And it also depends on how you manage the manure. And all of those are going to depend on the way that you're going to be able to do. And so I think that's a bit more of a lot of the sources and the sinks of methane. And so I think that's a bit more nebulous and harder to pin down, which makes it fascinating as a scientist. Yeah, absolutely. Let's see. So many great questions from the audience. People are asking about methane capture. Is there a method for methane capture? So there are approaches for methane reduction. So one thing that's a bit different about methane than CO2 is methane's lifetime is quite a bit shorter. Methane's lifetime in the atmosphere is in the order of 12 years or so. And there's been some interest in geoengineering for methane or trying to remove it from the atmosphere. The main approach for this is by either using some catalyst to pull it from the atmosphere or trying to augment the atmospheric oxidation and change the chemical removal of methane. So that would be sort of called atmospheric oxidation enhancement. So here, this OH radical is really the main oxidant in the troposphere. And there's been some proposed work to enhance the amount of OH in the atmosphere or emit more chlorine to the atmosphere, which also removes some methane. So there are some proposals to research this, but it's in very early stages. And there's also concerns about unintended consequences of messing with the atmosphere in this way. So there is some research on it. And there was a recent National Academies report that I was part of. And it was about atmospheric methane removal. Actually, I guess if you are curious in that, do I have that here? I don't, I have the report somewhere in my office, but I don't see it right now. But I could be happy to share that somewhere if people are interested. Yeah, we can try to find it and put it in the chat. Thanks so much. Yeah. Let's see. So one interesting question I saw up here was, is there a way to detect different sources of methane? Like leaks at well heads versus biogenic sources. Totally. So methane is tricky. So we have both point sources and sort of more diffuse area sources, like Michael alluded to there. Wetland emissions would generally be more of a diffuse source. And a lot of my work is satellite based. And so this technique that I mentioned here, where we're using these Landsat measurements at really high spatial resolution only really works. Find the image I'm looking for. Yeah. So this image here, this only really works because the emissions from that oil and gas well are really large relative to the background. So the signal that you get is massive. And it's large enough that you can actually observe it in this satellite that was not meant to study methane. So this particular approach that I've described here works for point sources or highly localized methane enhancements. For things that are more diffuse, we have other satellites that I would classify as more like area flux mappers that are coarser spatial resolution, but have really fine spectral resolution. Jumping back to this slide, actually. So these sort of very fine resolution instruments measure the average radiance over hundreds of nanometers. Whereas these area flux mappers will try and measure individual lines or much smaller spectral regions to isolate the effects of methane and be able to estimate these sort of more diffuse sources. So really what we've tried to do as atmospheric scientists is develop like a tiered approach of monitoring where you have these global monitors that get large diffuse sources. Then you have specialized satellites that focus in on certain regions like oil and gas basins. And then you might try and use airborne measurements or on the ground measurements to go and try and find and fix the leaks if possible and also focus on other sources. Does that make sense? Thanks, you can't actually respond. Sorry. If Michael wants to respond in the chat and let Alex know, that'd be great. But yeah, for right now, we'll move on to a few additional questions. One really interesting one is, can you explain a little more about what happened with COVID and methane in your methane trends? Yeah, so that was a really fascinating one. I mean, there was a lot of speculation about how COVID would affect the atmosphere broadly. But methane was one that was pretty uncertain what would happen. There was hypotheses about how methane could change oil and gas emissions. There was less demand for gas. You might expect less methane emissions. But people were working from home. There were far few operators in the field. Maybe you'd expect more leaks to the atmosphere. So there were hypotheses about how it could lead to increased oil and gas production or decreased oil and gas production. What we focused on, and we had a study showing that up to the upper bound of what COVID could do for the sink piece is that changes in driving could affect the amount of reactive nitrogen or NOx in the atmosphere, which also affects the amount of OH. So less driving means less NOx, which means less OH, and the methane lifetime would get longer. So we had a paper showing that this lack of driving could extend methane's lifetime in the atmosphere and explain part of that acceleration. But really, I think more recently, there have been debates about the relative importance of a few sources for that acceleration. And people have honed in on two processes. One is chemistry, which I sort of alluded to there. So lack of driving affecting OH. And the other is wetlands. There was anomalous precipitation throughout part of the tropics. And we think there was an additional pulse of methane from wetlands, largely in the sud in tropical Africa. But it's still a hotly debated topic. Sounds good. Yeah. So I know that there are like 19 unanswered questions in the chat for Alex. So really appreciate everyone for their interest in methane. And hopefully, some other talk will answer those. Or if Alex feels like hopping in the YouTube chat, you're welcome to try to answer some on your own. But we're going to have to wrap up here for now and move on to our next speaker. So thank you so much again, Alex. It was really great to have you on and hear about your methane detective work. Thanks. Yeah. That's a good morning. Thanks. Yeah. And so if you are just tuning in, welcome to hour 46 of our weather and climate live stream. I'm your host for right now, Stella Heflin. I am a PhD student at the University of Washington in the Department of Atmospheric and Climate Science, where I study rain in the tropics. And just to remind everyone, we've seen a lot of really great talks in the last 46 hours. And the next speaker I'm going to introduce is absolutely no exception to that. Before I introduce her, I'm going to give a brief reminder that all of our speakers are appearing in their personal capacities and are expressing their personal views, which may or may not be the same as other participants in this live stream. And just to remind you all, we are also here with a purpose, right? So Americans deserve good weather and climate forecasts. And US scientists have been world leaders in weather and climate prediction. We've developed the first computerized weather forecast. We developed computer models of the climate impacts of carbon pollution. You've heard about some of the incredible work being done in many different US states and regions. And so this excellence as a reminder is because of the investments by you, the public and the taxpayer dollars that go towards the federal funding of science in this country, which is absolutely essential for lives and livelihoods. But right now funding cuts are affecting all areas of weather and climate science. We have short stock weather stations and the shrinking and shuttering of federal labs. And that is why we are here doing this 100 hour live stream. So please help us save our forecasts. We have a call your representatives and senators. And so with that, I want to introduce our upcoming speaker, Anne Fridland. I hope I said that right. She is a senior scientist at a government lab, and we'll be talking about machine learning assisted design of future Earth observing satellite missions. So satellites today. Passing it off to Anne. Anne Fridland- Stella, thank you so much. Can you hear me okay? Okay, great. First of all, I just want to give a shout out to everyone organizing this. It's really great to see it. My great colleague and friend, Bart Geertz. Shout out to Bart, who just gave the talk two talks ago. And I'm coming to you here from New York City. In my own personal capacity, I have worked at NASA for 20 years, working on the physics of clouds. We just heard a lot about clouds in the last talk, last couple talks, well, before methane. And so, and the topic that I'm going to address is some innovative work that we recently did in the building that I'm showing here, which is the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies. And again, I'm here in my personal capacity. So I think it's okay for me to tell you, and I guess I would like everyone to know, we were just evicted from this building on very short notice. And this live stream started from this building and was partly inspired by our experiences losing our workspace. We haven't been fired, unlike many of the scientists, our colleagues at NOAA and elsewhere, but we still have jobs, but we have no workplace. So I'm actually in a basement of my apartment building because facade work is being done at my home apartment. And so it would be really loud if I were to join from there, and that is where I'm expected to work as well. So it's really a really unfortunate situation. So anyway, I would like to talk to you about some innovative work we did recently that I'm very proud of. And this was done with many colleagues, some of whose names I will mention as we go along. This institute is where NASA's climate model has been developed and run since the 1960s. And we also use the same model to simulate exoplanets. And we call it Rocky 3D. So I'm showing our two logos here for our climate model, which is called Model E, and our exoplanet model, where we basically model the atmospheres and oceans, etc., of planets that orbit other stars than our own sun. So in the last 10 or so years, I have been involved in working on cloud physics, the representation of clouds in our climate model, Model E, as it went from Model E2, version 2.1, to Model E3, its development version. And I'm showing you here how the clouds changed, their features changed in our model during the last round of development. And we specifically really improved the representation of stratocumulus clouds, which are the shallow clouds that are circled here on the right. So if you have been to San Francisco and experienced a San Francisco fog, these are essentially stratocumulus clouds. And so how do we develop climate models? And what I'm going to show you today is how we innovated the use of satellite observations to calibrate our existing climate model. And then we went on to ask the question, using a machine learning method, to ask the question, what future Earth observing satellite missions could reduce uncertainty in our climate model projections? So let me see if I can move to the next slide here. I got it. All right. So a little bit of background, sorry for the not so many pretty pictures on this slide, but clouds are really important to climate projection. And across climate models, differences in the way the clouds appear in the models, the way they're represented, are basically to blame for large differences in projected warming. And the reason is that we don't understand cloud physics well enough yet. And we're so many of the sorts of measurements, for instance, that Bart spoke about about an hour ago using aircraft help us to understand those cloud physics. And I have spent most of my career using such aircraft measurements and lately using that learning to help improve our climate model. So during model development, when you're making a climate model, your next version, these cloud physics, the representation of the cloud physics, and specifically the physics parameters, they basically need to be slightly tuned to bring simulations into line with targets such as pre-industrial radiative balance. And the reason for that is that if you just look at a picture of the world with the clouds on it, you can see that they reflect a lot of radiation. They represent really bright fields. And so they're very powerful. And so we need to kind of calibrate them to achieve a realistic climate. And because the parametrizations themselves need to be approximate, as we heard some previous speakers talk about. So as the earth warms, for instance, in an experiment where we double CO2, models predict differing cloud changes, which then feed back on the warming. So then the warming that we predict ends up dependent on how clouds respond to a warming climate. And this leads to a really big uncertainty. For instance, in CMIP6 models, there was a predicted range of 1.8 to 5.6 Kelvin surface warming that could occur from a doubling in CO2, which is kind of just a benchmark that we use. And that is a factor of three uncertainty. So this is largely tied to the physical representation of clouds. So we need to understand cloud physics better. And so we have the scientific community has basically focused a fair amount of effort and investment, your taxpayer dollars, my taxpayer dollars, to train people like Stella, who is in her PhD years, and to do 20 years of work like I just did in the field of cloud physics. And to keep that going, we really need to continue the investment or we will lose these capabilities in the future. So with our climate model, that during the development that I was a part of, we basically used field campaigns, field campaign data that included aircraft data such as what Bart talked about a little while ago, and he showed the aircraft that are from his amazing facility in Wyoming. And we use those to develop very detailed simulations that we can't afford to do when we're running a whole climate model. But we do them on a small domain, and we very carefully represent the clouds. And then we use that to train our climate model, our climate model physics development. And finally, on the upper right here, I'm showing we use a bunch of satellite data to then calibrate our model to give the best forecasts that it can. So that tuning that we do, what kind of data do we use to train our climate model to understand what clouds are like on Earth? We use, we used a whole bunch of Earth observing satellite data. So again, these are Earth observing satellites that are funded by your taxpayer dollars and my taxpayer dollars, and they help us understand what is happening to our climate, the climate that we depend on for food, for livelihoods. And so here I'm showing the various satellite data that we used in a very innovative way that was published this year in James, a journal. And I'm showing a few images of the satellites that we used. One of the satellites is Ceres, which senses radiative fluxes. One of the instruments is Ceres and I'm showing here, it's on two satellites. And another is CloudSat. I'm also showing the CloudSat satellite being worked on by, again, people who are funded by your taxpayer dollars. This is at Vandenberg Air Force Base, where NASA put the final touches on the instrument. Then I'm showing the instrument on its launch, on its launch pad. And it has been delivering, well, actually CloudSat is at the, has now passed. And actually our, our new satellites are really at risk right now. Will we have new satellites like CloudSat delivering this type of data? I think it's really a question that we need to ask ourselves and we need to vote about basically. So, so here are satellite datasets. We, we have data on things like radiation, long wave radiation, which the earth is emitting because it's relatively cool, short wave radiation from the sun because it's a very hot body. We have information about clouds, water vapor, temperature, the amount of liquid and ice in the clouds, and the precipitation, the cloud cover. You see, we're saying cloud a lot here because we really need to constrain the cloud properties to get the best climate model we can. So we use, so we gather all of this data and then we prepare, and this is the innovative part, we prepared 450 one-year atmosphere only runs where we did a sampling over 45 of the uncertain parameters. Many of these related to cloud physics. And so, so this gave us a whole bunch of possible earth atmospheres basically. And then we compared those possible earth atmospheres with our satellite data and we chose the ones that agree equally well with all of the satellite data that I just showed, all these data from all these satellites that I showed in the previous slide. And what we end up with is what we call a calibrated physics ensemble. And so on the left, I'm showing a few of these fields. These are data that's been turned into climatologies for many years of this, of these satellites flying overhead. So I'm showing absorbed shortwave radiation on the top and precipitable water vapor and then total cloud cover on the bottom. And in the middle column here, I'm showing our previous model. So, and then on the right, I'm showing our, our one of our equally likely models, which has been calibrated against the satellite data. And these models, you can see that if, when you see this is the, our each, in each case, I'm showing the simulated field minus the observations. And so what it tells us is kind of where our biases in our model are. And what you can see is that our new model on the right has less bright colors. And what that means is that it's less biased against the satellite data. So this use of machine learning, a neural network approach basically allowed us to finally calibrate our model physics, especially in its representation of clouds. And this is one of our equally likely versions that I'm showing on the right here. So one of the things that we care a lot about in, in cloud physics, or rather climate science is how much the earth would warm for that doubling of CO2. And I mentioned earlier that we, that that number is very uncertain right now. And our, our, our ensemble predicts a range, our initial ensemble predicted a range of 3.2 to 4.5 Kelvin. And so what's new about this technique is that we actually know the uncertainty in our climate sensitivity from one climate model. And that is something that I believe we're the first to do by calibrating against a bunch of these satellite data sets. Again, we just lost our building. We're all now working at home. And, and of course, we're, I'm very concerned that, that those of us from senior scientists down to our PhD students like Stella will soon lose our jobs. So I regret that, that it's, it's coming to this, but I'm still very excited about this innovation that we made here that other climate modeling centers can build on. So what future satellite observations should we make? Soon after we, we completed our calibrated physics ensemble, we realized that we could use this technique and the machine learning behind it to ask the question, what, what future satellite observations would be best to narrow that uncertainty in our climate projections. And that uncertainty is very important for all sorts of things. For instance, if you want to build a bridge or you want to understand how often flooding is going to happen, then you really want to know how much warming we're going to see in the future. So it essentially reduces the cost to society of planning infrastructure, of preparing for changes in the use of agricultural lands and so on and so forth, these things that are ahead. So, so we realized we could ask the question, we could ask that question of our, of our physics ensemble. And what we did is we re, we basically asked the question, what if the uncertainty that we, we told the calibration process in a particular field were reduced and that would be reduced by future satellite observations that are better than our current satellite observations. So shown on the left here is, is a rendition of that refined observations, better observations from future satellites if U.S. taxpayers do fund them. And so on the right, then we're showing how our predictions and in the gray is shown how equilibrium climate sensitivity are predictions of how much the earth will warm, for instance, for a doubling of CO2, which tell us basically the uncertainty in our projections in general for any scenario, how those would be narrowed if we had a reduction of uncertainty in our observations. And so I'm going to go to the next slide and show that these are various parameters in our, in our climate model. I won't go over them now for lack of time, but what they basically show is that our, our initial calibration, which is our existing today's satellite measurements, when we calibrated against them, we found optimal ranges for our various parameters that have to do with the representation of clouds that are shown in blue here. And then when we, when we went back to the same process and said, what if the uncertainty in our water vapor, the, basically the moisture in the lower part of the atmosphere, which is a, a target of a future NASA satellite effort called the planetary boundary layer mission. And if we, we asked if that planetary boundary layer mission were able to reduce the uncertainty in water vapor measurements, then we would get the calibration shown in orange. And so for some of our parameters, they, some of these parameters changed quite a bit. And what we also found is that if we then calculate the, an estimate of the equilibrium climate sensitivity shown on the right, the initial, the initial projections, which are shown in blue from our climate model, are then narrowed, and we predict a warming that is shown in orange, and it has a narrower range. So this was a proof of concept that we have submitted to the Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society to share with the community. And this is part of the work I do at, at NASA, or I have been doing for the last 20 years. We did just lose our lease, and we just moved out of the building the day before yesterday. And so this is, this sort of work is really on the line right now. I'm sad to say. So Estella, how much time do I have left? So you have about 10 minutes left of your speaking slot. I'm happy to start throwing questions at you if you are ready for that. Yeah, I think that would be great, actually. Absolutely. Yeah. And just thank you so much for highlighting your work and how important NASA GISS is in the work that you all do. So we also have some thank yous in the chat, as well from your collaborator, Martin Kohler, did put something in the chat thanking you for, for your work. Just want to shout that out. Yeah. And so I guess there's a lot of cool questions, maybe just a quick, a quick one that might help. Are some types of clouds more reflective than others? That is a great question. And the answer is yes. So, you know, I guess the least reflective clouds that most of us see very frequently are cirrus clouds. They are very high in the atmosphere, wispy, you know, and they generally are very frequently, they trap outgoing radiation, they actually warm our planet more than they cool the planet. And so they, so they, they provide us protection, we would be a much colder planet without cirrus clouds. And probably the, well, there is a limit to brightness, basically, you know, you can only get so white. And so basically, the clouds, once you reach a very high opacity, then you're as bright as you can be. And clouds that can even a very shallow cloud can be as bright as you can be. And so and those clouds, like I mentioned, stratocumulus clouds are completely overcast. That's important to how, you know, so you can be bright locally, you're a little white spot. But when you're really blanketing a big area with a lot of bright white, that is reflecting a, you know, a large amount of solar radiation back to space. And, and that is a cooling effect for our planet. Yeah, perfect. Thank you so much for that summary of that. Yeah. So we have some interest in other planets. Someone asked, has data from other planets, atmospheres had any influence on your understanding or adjusting models? That is a great question. And I would say, so to my knowledge, ours is the only climate model that is used, the same code base is used for other planets. And that does affect our code base. So the type, for instance, the radiative transfer that we run needs to be capable of running for other atmospheres. So in that sense, you know, there is a continuity of understanding. I would also say that my institute is called the Goddard Institute for Space Studies. And the planetary scientists at my institute were among the first, well, Jim Hansen, who hired me, was the first American scientist to go to Congress. And a report on the dangers posed by climate, by warming from greenhouse gases. And he was a planetary scientist. And, and he ended up ultimately then devoted, devoting his career to studying Earth's atmosphere. So there is definite overlap also in the technologies that are used on, on missions that go to space. For instance, polarimetry is a big effort at my institute, I believe, we're also the only institute that basically developed new technology that was flown in, has been recently flown in space on the PACE mission, to better observe cloud microphysics and also other aspects of the atmosphere. So there's a lot of overlap in understanding Earth and non-Earth atmospheres. Great question. Yeah, thanks for that answer. I see some questions about exoplanet cloud cover and about whether we could learn from exoplanet cloud cover to help here on Earth. That's a good question. So yeah, my close colleague and partner in life, Andy Ackerman, is, is, had actually spent quite a bit of time also working on clouds on stars. And they also experience, I was mentioning how if you have a really bright spot or you're completely overcast, then things look very different. And actually clouds on stars also break up, they, you know, there's gaps between them where you can see the hardest, the hottest interior of stars. And he won a award for a very highly cited paper where actually he used his knowledge of Earth clouds to understand clouds on stars. So I think that, so I'm not familiar with, you know, I, I would say it's a rich, there's rich exchange between planetary work and Earth work and, and work on stars. Absolutely. That's super cool. That's stuff I don't know about a lot either. And really cool to hear about. Thanks for those questions, guys. Another question is from, from Martin, Earth satellites from the US are really unsurpassed. Will we have to end up relying on European Earth satellites in the next few years? Now that's a hard thing to predict. Um, yeah, I'm going to be really honest here. Um, you know, NASA incubates during my career, NASA incubates, um, instruments. And the way that works is they first fly instruments on a very high flying aircraft. They're actually former spy aircraft, um, U-2 aircraft, we call them the ER-2 and the, um, instruments are developed for space and then they're flown really high in the atmosphere and the pilot is wearing a suit and everything. It's, it's very, very technical work. And, um, and then finally, and we, we call this raising the technological readiness level. And so finally that instrument is ready to go in space when all the parts and all the technology is proven. And, um, in my career, the high spectral resolution LIDAR, uh, that was developed at NASA Langley and flown for many years, um, was all set to go to space until NASA cut that, um, from the AOS mission that I heard an earlier speaker, um, show a slide of at the end of his talk that was, um, yeah, uh, let's see, I'm forgetting his name now, but, um, so Adam, um, so, Sokol. So, so that, that really broke my heart. Um, and because that was going to be, you know, really a next generation instrument that we could learn so much more, reduce the uncertainty that we're looking at right here on this slide that is so important to literally everyone who lives on earth. And so, um, how, how, how are, how much our earth is going to warm and therefore what is the, the likelihood that we would need to attempt geoengineering or something like that. So, um, so they have been unsurpassed, but, um, actually now I believe the Europeans are already surpassing us and we are already relying on them. Um, in fact, the Italians had to step in and supply a LIDAR in place of the high spectral resolution LIDAR that was planned for the AOS mission. Um, and as I said, uh, that really broke my heart and, um, yeah, so I think that we are going to have to rely on European earth satellites, but I will say, um, call your representatives. Um, we can turn this around anytime, uh, we can get out there and vote and decide as a society that, um, we value this. And I, I fear that we've become a little bit complacent. Things have been so great in the U S, um, for the last, well, a little while ago already, but, and, uh, so, um, yeah, that's a great question and I'm so glad that Europeans are there. Thank you. Yeah. That was a really great and comprehensive answer. Thank you so much. Um, I'm just going to give you, um, one last question, um, which was, um, what inspired you to dive into this research? Yes. Okay. So, um, yeah. Uh, so I was, uh, when I was about a little younger than Stella, um, I wondered whether I should become a lawyer or, or maybe I should, um, study economics because I think economics is really important to people's lives. And, um, I'm not suited for medicine because I can't bear the sight of blood and, um, or I should study earth science. And at the time, um, climate modeling was in its infancy. And, um, I, uh, I decided that that was a really an important problem of my time of our time. And, um, so I applied to, uh, programs and, uh, for everyone out there who feels like they might not be good enough for this, or their grades might not be good enough. I will tell you that, um, uh, it's, you don't need to be perfect. And, um, what really matters is, um, that, uh, that this is something that, that whatever you choose, whether it's law or economics or, you know, climate science, it interests you irrationally. And that's, um, I guess that's how I felt, uh, about, um, about, about the work that I did for my PhD. I actually studied, uh, civil engineering, which is where a lot of air quality work is done. And then I made the move to climate science, uh, when I was about Stella's age, I went into for my PhD program, uh, and I went to Stanford university, the environmental fluid mechanics lab, shout out to, uh, to Stanford and EFML lab. And, and then, um, I've been so, um, lucky to work at NASA GISS with so many, uh, super smart colleagues, uh, for the last 20 years doing work like I discussed today. So yeah. Awesome. Thank you so much for sharing. Yeah. I always love hearing how people got into the field and, and yeah, everyone takes a different path to, to where they are. So thank you. Thank you so much. Yeah. Um, we are out of time, so we're going to have to move on to the next speaker, but thank you so much, um, Dr. Fidlin for, for your talk. That was fantastic. And the chat really liked learning about cloud physics. There was a lot of, um, a lot of excitement, a lot more questions we didn't get to, so appreciate it. Yeah. Um, so if you're just tuning in, hello, welcome to our 46 of the, uh, weather and climate live stream. I'm your host, Sella Heflin. I'm a PhD student at the university of Washington. So it's currently 7 30 AM for me out here on the West coast. Um, really good morning to everyone that's just tuning in. Um, and yeah, so we've seen a lot of really great talk so far. Um, and the next speaker that we've got up is absolutely no exception to that. Um, Dr. Michael Diamond, who is an assistant professor, um, at Florida state university. Um, before we dive into, uh, Dr. Diamond's talk, I'm just going to give a brief reminder that all of our speakers are appearing in their personal capacities and expressing their own views, not those of other participants, um, necessarily. Um, and we are here with a purpose that Americans deserve good weather and climate forecasts. And here to emphasize that you have scientists have been world leaders and weather and climate prediction. We built some of the first computerized weather forecasts and developed the first computer models about the climate impacts of carbon solution, pollution. Um, and all of this, um, this excellence in American climate and weather is because of investment by you, the public and the taxpayer dollars that go into our federal funding for climate and weather. Um, and this is really essential. Um, but as, uh, Dr. Fridland just talked about, um, funding cuts are affecting all areas of weather and climate science. We have shortstop weather stations. We have the shrinking and the shuttering of federal labs, including NASA GIS. Um, and so we are doing this in order to help save our forecasts. And so the spanner going across the screen at the bottom is our five calls link, which will take you to call your representative and senators, your senators and representatives in Congress. Um, so visit wclivestream.com slash act, um, and make those calls. Um, and with all of that said, um, I am going to turn the floor over to Dr. Michael Diamond. Um, as I said, he is an assistant professor at Florida State University. Um, and he is going to talk about what we learn about clouds by tracking ship pollution from space. So another clouds presentation for you all in the chat. Take it away, Michael. Awesome. Thank you so much, Stella. And love seeing the, uh, University of Washington representation here. Um, also a, uh, UW alum. So represent, um, I hear, heard you guys like clouds. So we're going to continue on that theme, although it's always dangerous going after, uh, Dr. Fridland. She's, um, an amazing, an amazing colleague. So I'm going to focus my presentation on learning about cloud physics from actually tracking air pollution with, with satellites. So the image I have up here, actually, um, it looks like a satellite image, but it's actually from a digital camera, which is very cool. So this was taken, um, off the coast of Alaska or the images of the coast of Alaska, but it's actually taken from an astronaut on the international space station. Um, again, just with like a little plane and shoot digital camera. Um, and these lines that you could see in this cloud deck here, you can trace each of these back to an individual ship and we call these ship tracks. And we've known about these since around the 1960s. That's the first time we saw this kind of imagery in our very first generation of earth observing satellites from the 1960s. Uh, the original paper on this was written by an air force guy. So of course his mind immediately went to, um, oh, maybe these are missile trails. Oh, maybe these are a ship smoke screens or something like that. Um, but no, they're just cloud physics. They're just what happens when this pollution mixes up into the cloud deck. Um, and you can actually see here, they were in this very early image. They were able to figure out exactly where the ship was and the track going based, going off of that. So in the decades since we've learned a lot about the physics behind what actually makes these ship tracks. And there's a couple of different things that happen, but ultimately this is because every cloud droplet you see in the atmosphere, every cloud you see in the atmosphere in the center of those little droplets is some kind of particle that we call an aerosol. Um, water vapor can't just condense upon itself in earth's atmosphere. It needs a little seed to get everything going. And if you're out over the ocean and all you have is maybe some salt being kicked up by waves, you can build a cloud with a couple of pretty big drops in terms of how you can spread out that water. Now imagine the ship goes by and you're burning this really dirty, um, bunker fuel kind of bottom of the barrel stuff. And you get all this little burnt bits coated with sulfur crud essentially around them. Um, now for that same amount of liquid water you have in your cloud, you could build a cloud with a much larger number of smaller droplets. And that actually makes the cloud more reflective, um, which is what we see here, right? These basically more whiter clouds that are reflecting more sunlight back to space. If those clouds were also drizzling and some of these clouds that you see are kind of spotty over here, there's some good evidence that we could have that maybe those were drizzling in the natural case by having a bunch of little droplets instead of a couple big drops that also makes them drizzle less. So maybe those clouds stick around for longer and that would also make them brighter. And this actually has a big influence on earth's climate. Um, and aerosol particles, not just on earth's climate, um, affect a lot of, of different earth system processes. So our larger particles like volcanic ash and pollen, these are, um, scanning electron microscope images. So these are just absolutely microscopic teeny tiny particles. Um, these are really good at seeding ice in the atmosphere. Um, sea salt and some of those sulfur particles I was talking about from ships, and those form these spherical droplets and they're really excellent cloud seeds or cloud condensation nuclei. Um, and soot and these sulfur particles also can get in our lungs and really affect health. So there's a lot of different ways that aerosol particles play a role in our climate. What I'm going to focus on is how they affect earth's energy budget and how they actually cloud our picture of what's happening with earth's energy budget. So in a stable climate, we'd have some amount of energy coming in from the sun and we'd have that exact same amount of energy leaving earth through long wave or heat energy out to space. And that would be a climate in which the temperature is not changing over time, um, stable. Today we have an imbalanced climate because we've been adding greenhouse gases to the atmosphere and they act like a blanket, um, keeping that heat energy from leaving the earth, um, kind of trapping it within the atmosphere. Uh, most of that energy is actually being trapped in the oceans, um, only a little bit in the atmosphere, but that is heating up the atmosphere. Um, so that's what we know is the major thing affecting our climate. But aerosols also affect how much incoming energy we get from space. And we can use a couple different lines of evidence to figure out how much of the warming trend we've seen is due to greenhouse gases like carbon dioxide, which is here in the purple, but also things like methane in the brown here. Um, Alex Turner, a little while ago was talking about that. Um, so that's this, this purple line and these other lines here that are causing warming of the atmosphere. We also have in this gray here, this cooling from these aerosols, these airborne particles that were reflecting sunlight back to space. Um, so two really big things to note here. One is that this cooling effect is large. It's definitely smaller than the warming we have from greenhouse gases, but it's, um, quote unquote, masking something like a third of the warming we could have experienced due to greenhouse gases like CO2 and methane alone. The other thing is it's error bar is really big. Um, this has a high amount of scientific uncertainty. So it's something that we still don't understand well enough and that hampers our ability to predict, uh, future changes in climate and to understand how much human activities have already affected Earth's climate. So it's maybe a little bit surprising, right? That we have that much uncertainty given we have these, these ship tracks, these awesome natural experiments or this natural, um, yeah, view of what these aerosols are doing to the Earth system. But even in the effects of shipping, we have a lot of uncertainty and things that are really hard to figure out. So this image here is showing where these ships are around the world. We can see, right, you have a lot of shipping traffic in the Northern hemisphere, these big lanes between Europe and North America America and Asia, um, some shipping lanes down here in the Southern hemisphere as well, but not quite as many. And we know that there are about a hundred thousand ships going around in the global fleet, but only a really small fraction of them produce those ship tracks. Like I showed at the very beginning, those really easily identical, identifiable ship tracks. And when one team tried to add up all the ship tracks they could detect, and they actually did this, um, by hand, basically going in the satellite imagery and trying to track all those and add them all up for a year, the result that they got was about a thousand times smaller than what you would expect the results should be if you put those same emissions and ran a climate model with them. So what's, what's going on here? And to give it away a little bit, it's actually, um, one of the rare instances in which the models are right and the observations are wrong or rather incomplete. It turns out it's actually really hard to find all of these things by hand. So one idea we had is what if we tried looking at an entire shipping corridor overall instead of trying to add up all of these individual ship tracks. And one really attractive area to look at this is actually in the Southeast Atlantic here, where I have the circle now off the coast of Africa. Um, because in the Northern hemisphere, right, you have ships, planes going every which way. So we have a lot of, a lot, a lot of ship emissions, but down here we have a lot of ship emissions, but relatively clean clouds on either side. And the other nice thing about the Southeast Atlantic area is the winds, which I'm showing here in these, these little barbs here. Um, the direction they're pointing in is the direction the low level winds are going. And you can see the winds here happen to be almost perfectly parallel to the shipping corridor. And what that's doing is it's taking that ship pollution and instead of spreading it out all over the ocean, it's keeping it relatively concentrated right along that shipping corridor. And something we see, um, really suspiciously. So in these black contours here, this is where you have a lot of clouds off the coast of Africa. Um, for these clouds, don't think about big thunderstorms, think about, um, like the San Francisco fog, like these really low level, um, clouds are just kind of spanning the whole ocean. And we can see what looks basically like a line running through them in the shading here. And this shading here is actually using satellites to, um, count essentially how many cloud droplets we have per cubic centimeter of air. It's absolutely amazing that we can do that from space, right? But we see this, um, kind of suspicious line there. So what we're going to try to do is do some fancy spatial statistics and see if we can get a real statistically significant signal out of this. So the way this works and I'm, um, shift, uh, flipping things a little bit, instead of looking at the number now, we're looking at the size. So here yellowish colors are smaller cloud droplets and bluish colors are larger cloud droplets and all else equal smaller cloud droplets mean a brighter cloud. Um, this is called the effective radius, which is just think about it as the typical cloud droplet size. What we could see here, right, we have this suspicious line right along the shipping corridor and what we see are these smaller clouds along the corridor. What we would expect if there were more of these cloud condensation nuclei seeds, um, forming more droplets. Um, the unit here is called a micron and just to put this in context, this is a million times smaller than a meter. So these cloud droplets are about a fifth as thick as a single human hair. So absolutely teeny tiny. So what we're going to do is we're going to use the spatial relationships that we see in these nearby, um, regions that are not in the shipping corridor, but should be experiencing basically the same weather conditions and create what we call a counterfactual. So this hypothetical scene that we would have, or what we would have seen if the shipping emissions didn't exist. And we're going to interpret the difference between what we actually observe and the statistically derived counterfactual as the effect of shipping. And when we do that, what we see is we get a big decrease in the cloud droplet size in the shipping corridor. Um, and these little white dots show where that's statistically significant at the 95% confidence interval, which is our typical, um, confidence interval that we use as scientists to say whether or not we really believe our result. Um, so smaller cloud droplets equals brighter clouds. You can actually quantify this. And when we do quantify it, the size of the effect agrees with the climate models because we're now able to integrate over that whole shipping corridor instead of trying to find these individual tracks. Um, so that's really exciting. That was really exciting when we first, when we first found this, but the plot actually thickens because as you can see here, um, the climatology I show there ends in 2019. Something interesting, oh, a lot of interesting things happened in 2020, but at least for our story right now, the interesting thing that happened in 2020 was the international maritime organization, which is the UN agency that regulates international shipping, um, imposed a really strict new cap on the amount of sulfur that you could put in marine fuels. And actually basically overnight on January 1st over the open ocean, you had an almost 80% decrease in the amount of sulfur that you could have in the ship fuel. And in general, these ships are kind of the dirtiest, um, bottom of the barrel things you could burn, the stuff you wouldn't want to burn on land near people. But, um, the atmosphere, if we know one thing about the atmosphere and Olivier, um, in the next talk is going to talk about, uh, the atmosphere moves. So that pollution gets, uh, blown onto land still. And something like tens of thousands of premature deaths per year, um, now primarily in, or then, primarily in Eastern and Southern Asia were caused by the ship pollution. So there was a really big need, right, to crack down on this and clean it up. So that's what happened in 2020. We were able to make a prediction because it's actually the sulfur that makes these, um, little shipping burnt bits that come out of the smokestack good cloud seeds. So we would predict that after this went into effect, we'd have a much smaller change in the clouds within that shipping corridor. And this is kind of fun because we rarely get to, um, pre-register such a prediction with such, um, a quick turnaround and then we'll actually see if that comes to pass. So let's see what happened. So one thing, right, is I was using about 20 years of data before. So what if we only have three years of data? And it turns out that with only three years of data, we still see the signal pretty strongly. It's not as pretty, right? You don't have as nice of a kind of gradient there, but you still definitely see what's going on, that you see this decrease in the cloud droplet size. So what happens when we look at the three years after 2020? So 2020 to 2022? Um, and it turns out that when we look there, that cloud-briening effect mostly disappears, which is exactly what we would have predicted. So it turns out we actually a little bit know how clouds work, which is really exciting because, um, yeah, it's really hard to understand how clouds work. So the fact that we got this right is actually, I think, pretty, pretty astounding. And it's pretty astounding we were able to detect this so quickly because of our earth monitoring satellites. So that was really exciting, but the plot actually thickens even further because last year we had another really weird intervention in international shipping that we also might be able to see in the earth system. Because as part of the current wars going on in the Middle East, the Houthi militia that controls a decent portion of Western Yemen over here started attacking, um, international ships going through the, the Shri of Al-Mandab over here near Djibouti. Um, this started in November 2023 with the abduction of the Galaxy Leader, um, cargo ship, but continued since. So this is a, um, armed, uh, conflict database from ACLED and all of the yellow, um, histograms here are attacks on commercial ships going through the Red Sea over here. So you could see, right, a lot of attacks that year and that really strongly choked off traffic through the Suez Canal. And we can actually see this from satellite. So the blue to yellow shading on this plot is nitrogen dioxide. Um, this is a short-lived air pollutant, um, but basically just think of it as a proxy for industrial activity and transportation. So you could see some, uh, highways actually here, but you could also see these shipping routes through the Red Sea in the year before this conflict started. And then, um, each of these red points here is actually just in September, October, 2024, where you had these attacks. And you can see that this traffic is really strongly choked off right in the Red Sea. We can't see that pollution anymore. So as a result, we still wanted to ship things from Asia to Europe, to the Mediterranean Sea. So instead of ships going through the Suez Canal, we had a very large rerouting of traffic around Africa and around the Cape of Good Hope. Um, so instead of going through, up through here, through the Suez Canal, we're now going around Africa. And you can see this, um, basically doubling of shipping traffic around Southern, around South Africa here. And, um, we look right here. One of my colleagues, Sarah Doherty was recently hiking, um, on a Table Mountain there near the Cape of Good Hope. And this, um, kind of hazy purplish stuff there, that's actually probably ship pollution. Um, so there, there's a lot of this right around there. And what we could see is that prior to, um, this change, if you're really eagle-eyed, you could maybe pick out the shipping corridor around Africa in the nitrogen dioxide column, but it's pretty hard. But you could see it pretty obviously afterwards when you have about a doubling of traffic through this lane. So a big question then is what's going to happen to the cloud droplet number concentration or the cloud droplet size, um, over here? Are we going to get, a signal again that we lost originally after 2020? So this is some very hot off the presses, unpublished work that I'm working on right now. What I'm showing here is the percentage increase in cloud droplets forming due to ship pollution in this corridor, similar to what I was showing in those, um, maps before. And we had something like a 10% increase in the cloud droplets that were forming before that pollution regulation went into effect. In the couple of years after that effect, right, mostly went away. And it's, um, actually now really hard to see because the signal is so small. So it's really hard to quantify it, but it's probably something more like, um, three to 5% now. Um, and most years not even distinguishable from zero. But in 2024, when we had that big increase in ship traffic, it goes back up, um, almost to where it was before that regulation. And one thing we could do, so you can kind of ask like, oh, are they just like stopping enforcing the regulation or is it because all those ships are going through? So we could normalize this by the amount of the nitrogen pollution because nitrogen from the ships wasn't affected. Only the sulfur was affected. So if we then normalize it, so take the ratio of that cloud droplet increase to the total shipping activity as measured with that nitrogen pollution. Um, what we can now see is that we get this really big reduction right from IMO 2020, but it's really hard to see that signal. But now in 2024, we have so much more shipping. We can quantify the signal so much better. And we have some pretty tight balance where we can now really quantify. There's about a 70% reduction in the cloud changing power of the shipping fuel per kind of unit of fuel burned, which is really exciting. And hopefully this is actually going to help us quantify globally what this regulation did. In my last minute or so, I just want to say, um, thank you, NASA and NOAA. The big takeaways from this, hopefully besides the specific results from my group, is that monitoring pollution from space actually helps us learn about climate change and therefore better predict and adapt to it. Um, geophysical monitoring also helps confirm or not whether these pollution regulations are being followed. This is actually one line of evidence we have that ships over the open ocean, right? Where it's very hard to detect what's happening actually were following the UN's regulations. And we couldn't do this without US science agencies like NASA and NOAA, which are really fundamental to the world's ability to observe the Earth system. Again, not just the US, but the whole world is benefiting from the science that happens at these US federal agencies. Um, and, uh, in particular, NASA and NOAA have funded me throughout my time on my PhD at the University of Washington, and then my postdoc, um, where I worked at NOAA, and then currently in my position at Florida State University. I've been mostly funded through, um, the Earth's Radiation Budget program at NOAA, which is doing a lot of this groundbreaking, breaking work. So really important to, to keep that alive. Awesome. And, um, in my last couple of minutes, hopefully I can take some questions from the audience. Thank you so much. Absolutely. Yeah. Thank you so much, Dr. Diamond. Um, the chat has said a lot of thank yous, um, and also really commented on how cool your visuals were in this presentation. You got a lot of hype for the cool colors that were used. Um, I want to ask a follow-up question that a few folks asked, um, about when the Ever Given ship got stuck in the Suez Canal in 2021, and whether you'd be able to see, um, a difference in the ship pollution from that. Potentially. That's a really good question. I have not looked at that in the, um, nitrogen dioxide, um, fields, but that would be something that could be looked at. And I wouldn't be surprised if you actually saw some kind of signal there. I would be surprised if you did see a cloud signal, at least in the Red Sea. Um, you tend to have, um, don't think San Francisco fog anymore. Think like, um, you know, cute little popcorn cumulus, uh, clouds that are much, much more sparse and much that are, we think, are less susceptible to being brightened in this way. So I think you would get a signal with that nitrogen pollution, but probably not in the clouds, but maybe it's something I should look at. Is that because it's drier in that area or just a different cloud regime entirely? Dry? Yeah. Um, I think hotter. Yeah. Hot and dry. Okay. Yeah. Cool. Yeah. These, um, these, these San Francisco fog type clouds, what you really want is cold sea surface temperatures, um, and therefore like a cold kind of, um, lower layer and then topped by a hot, dry layer. So they can't, um, keep rising and become thunderstorm clouds. So they're kind of stuck there. Absolutely. Yeah. Um, thank you so much for that, that answer. Um, folks have asked about, um, the dust pollution and whether, um, you can get dust pollution, uh, traveling across the world, um, and whether or not that's linked with, with clouds. I'll ask that very generally, but I think there's kind of a specific way that they've written it out here about whether clouds carry the dust pollution, but any, anything about dusting clouds would be great to hear a little more about. Yeah. There are a number of ways that dust can actually affect clouds. So out over the, um, North Atlantic ocean. So the other side of the basin, um, we do get a lot of Saharan dust, one of the really big dust sources in the world. Um, this has all kinds of effects all the way from fertilizing, um, the Sargasso sea, um, making that really biologically active in a way that a lot of other similar seas around the world aren't, um, even has a role in fertilizing the Amazon, but also can affect clouds. So dust can absorb sunlight, um, kind of like smoke, right? The fact that you kind of see it and it gives it a little, a little color. So it absorbs sunlight and it can actually make the atmosphere above the clouds even warmer. So that creates a stronger lid, essentially keeping those clouds in place. So it could affect low clouds like that. It can also get into the clouds. So dust is not the best liquid cloud seed, um, although it can act like that in the right circumstances, but it's a really, really good ice cloud seed. So cirrus clouds really high in the atmosphere can be affected by dust if it gets all the way up there. Um, and there's also, um, I would say more, more controversial evidence that it can affect hurricanes. Um, the less controversial way it can affect hurricanes actually is when you get dust and it shades the surface, you can cool the ocean down a little bit. So there's too many ways I would say that dust can affect clouds. Um, it keeps, keeps folks like us employed. Absolutely. Thank you so much for the answers about dust. Um, folks, uh, I guess I'll actually ask a question from Andrew Williams, one of our, one of our helpers and chat moderators. Um, what's your favorite cloud? We had a great discussion about that in the chat. Lots of people talking about their favorite clouds. So. Yeah. Yeah. I know someone on, um, the first day of the, uh, broadcast was also working, I think it was Marcus also working on, um, strata cumulus clouds, but he, uh, was a turncoat and went to cumulonimbus, which I'm tempted to do as well, but I think I'll stick with the strata cumulus because they're, um, small but mighty, right? They're these, they're only a couple of hundred meters thick. Usually they're pretty boring from a weather perspective for the most part. Um, again, I did my, my graduate school in Seattle as well. So over the summer, very familiar with the strata cumulus, um, not the most exciting, but they're so important for earth's climate. Um, clouds have both a warming and a cooling effect on earth's climate, but the cooling effect dominates and most of the net cooling effect from clouds, about 75% of it comes from these low altitude clouds like strata cumulus. So small but mighty, they might not seem super exciting, but when it comes to climate and climate change, they're really a major player. Absolutely. Yeah. Um, and then I guess maybe one fun follow-up question is what got you so interested in clouds? Yeah. So I had no idea what I wanted to do going into grad school. Um, I was thinking of maybe doing geophysical fluid dynamics and thinking about how the atmosphere moves, um, thinking about clouds. Um, I ultimately got, uh, recruited into cloud land for two reasons. One is that those big error bars I showed at the beginning. Um, I was kind of like, I don't really know what I want to do, but this seems like a big important question. So that sounds like a fun thing to work on as a scientist, right? We want to kind of go where, we want to go where the error bars are. Um, also, uh, you could see the logo there from that Oracle's NASA project. Um, my PhD was in part based on flying aircraft through smoke and clouds over the Southeast Atlantic Ocean. And when I talked with my, um, advisor at University of Washington, he was like, oh, well, if you come here, you can, um, go to, go to Africa for a month every year and fly through clouds. And I'm like, oh, that sounds cool. I'll do that. Yeah, absolutely. That makes sense. Field campaigns are a great reason to get interested in a cool phenomenon. Um, well, thank you so much, Dr. Diamond. Um, yeah, the chat is, is saying a lots of, lots of thanks, um, for your presentation, really big cloud fans there. So yeah, just thank you so much for taking the time and talking with everyone about what you do. Awesome. Thank you all. And thank you for tuning in. Absolutely. Yeah. And so, um, that concludes, uh, my window as the, uh, host for right now, I'll be back later in the stream. Um, but for now, um, thank you all so much for being so great in the chat and, and thank you to all the speakers that I got to interact with. And I'm going to turn it over to our next host, Dr. Andrew Dessler. Um, so hopefully we can get him up on stage here in a second. Um, and I will turn the mic over. Thank you so much. Hi everybody. And, uh, welcome to my two hour shift as host of the live stream. Um, let me say, I checked the YouTube channel and there's, you know, eight, seven or 800 people watching. We really, I can't tell you how much we thank you all for being interested in, um, uh, being interested in this. You know, we've devoted our lives to figuring this out and, you know, in return, we get vilified by the people that don't want to believe climate change is real. And so thank you. That means a lot to us. Um, so let me read you the blurb that we read, um, that sort of tells you about what we're doing. So, um, thank you for joining us. It is hour 47 of the live stream, uh, 53 hours to go. Uh, my name is Andy Dessler. I am your host for this segment. Uh, we've seen a lot of great talks so far and I'll introduce the next speaker in a minute, but before I do that, uh, just a brief reminder that our speakers are all appearing in their personal capacities and expressing their own views, which may not be those of other participants or of their institutions or of their funding agencies. Um, now we're all here though with a shared purpose, which is that Americans deserve good weather and climate forecasts, the kind that save lives during hurricanes, help farmers plant their crops and guide families making weekend plans. Um, U S scientists are world leaders in all of these areas. Um, you know, we developed the first computerized weather forecast back in the fifties, revolutionizing how we predict storms. American scientists created the first computer models showing how carbon pollution warm the climate. Um, we built an unparalleled network of observations from local weather stations to satellite observations to hurricane hunter aircrafts flying into storms. Um, uh, scientific excellence exists because of investments by you, the, the general public. Um, yeah, us funding for research has been essential for maintaining America's leadership in weather and climate, but now funding cuts are affecting all weathers, all areas of weather and climate. Uh, we're seeing weather stations short staffed just when extreme weather is becoming more frequent, dangerous climate research labs that have operated for decades are shrinking or shuttering entirely taking with them irreplaceable expertise and decades of climate records. Uh, so we need your help to save our forecasts. Uh, there's information about contacting representatives scrolling at the bottom, right there. Um, so click the link and call your representative. Now I know I talked to enough students. You think nobody's gonna listen to me, you know, calling your representative is dumb. Trust me, they listen to phone calls from constituents. If you're willing to pick up the phone and call them, that means you're sufficiently mad about it that, uh, they understand what, um, they understand that there's a hundred people who aren't quite mad enough to call, but who also agree with that. So, um, so calling representative, this is how, this is how you get them to know what you think. So make sure you're, uh, so please call them. Uh, so we did get a question. What does the shirt say? Uh, so climate science, what I want, it's getting warmer. It's us. Uh, we're sure it's bad and we can fix it. So this is the, uh, uh, Ed Maybach five, five things. It's real. It's us. It's bad. Scientists agree. Uh, there's hope. So, you know, those are, I, when I teach class, that's the first slide I show them first slide of the first lecture. I say, this is what you're gonna learn in the climate course. Uh, and we can, that's really all you have to remember. Um, uh, you have to know more of that to get an A in the class, but, uh, fundamentally I hope when they leave the class, that's what they remember. Anyway, enough, enough about my shirt. Uh, let's go on to, let me introduce our first speaker. Um, our first speaker is Olivier Pauli. Olivier is a professor of mathematics and atmosphere science, atmospheric sciences at NYU's Courant Institute. Uh, he has a PhD in atmospheric and oceanic sciences from Princeton and, uh, which he earned in 2000. His research focuses on atmospheric circulation and hydrologic cycle, particularly studying how the atmosphere acts as a heat engine that transports energy from warm to cold regions. I don't know if I've ever met Olivier, but I've, I've followed his work for years. So it's a real pleasure to introduce you and I'm looking forward to your talk. Yeah. Thank you, Andrew. And thank you, uh, to the organizer. I think it's a very important thing here to, to, to really, uh, pay attention to what's going into our funding for climate research and, and weather research. Um, so I'm joining in from New York. Uh, and yes, so today I want to talk a little bit about, uh, basically, uh, maybe an obvious question, but, uh, the fact that the atmosphere moves and so why it moves and, uh, the kind of way that we think about it is some of basically the atmosphere working as a heat engine, uh, before jumping into, into the detail, uh, maybe I'll do, uh, I want to talk a bit, uh, my own trajectory as a why and that idea about being an atmospheric scientist sitting in my department. So if you're wondering about, about the, the, the, the accent, it's a French accent, but I grew up in Belgium. Um, you know, calling a Belgian French, it's like calling a Canadian, uh, American. So, uh, so you, you, you, you want, um, and so I studied applied mathematics and engineering, uh, in Belgium, but, uh, I was not very happy with just pure math and, and even physics and not got interested in climate issue with my, my undergrad advisor. And I got the chance to come to the U S in 95. Uh, so working, uh, at Princeton, but in part of working at a joint program between Princeton and, uh, NOAA lab, uh, the geophysical fluid dynamics, which was a fantastic experience where I was able to do a PG while working directly with NOAA scientists. And I think, I think this has been one of the great thing, uh, in the way that, uh, atmospheric research has been done in, in the U S is this close collaboration between a research lab and academic institution, uh, which offer a great training ground for, uh, for a lot of young scientists. Uh, I continued, uh, as a postdoc, uh, working with this great, uh, fellowship program called the global commission, uh, program, which basically allowed me again to continue my, my academic trajectories, but, but, but what, but what supported by NOAA and that I think it's a, it's a, it's an opportunity. I think that we should keep offering to, to, to scientists. One of the, one of the, the, the, the, the budget cuts, uh, current, the current budget is basically the, the elimination of the office and most of the research at NOAA, which means that basically a lot of these research opportunities for scientists involved, like only graduate student, postdoc and, and academics won't be able to work as easily or directly with, with NOAA scientists. That would be, that would be an extreme loss for NOAA, for the, for the academic community and, and for, for, for, for, for the U S as well. Uh, my current position is I, I, I'm, I'm a, I'm online as a mathematician at the Krone Institute in, in New York, so a bit, uh, south from, uh, where Anne was, was located, 100 blocks from, from where she, she, from the, the, the NASA Geese Institute. Um, let's, let's go back, let's talk a bit, enough about myself. So let's talk a bit about, about science, uh, and, and basically the, the, the kind of, like basic question that I want to do. So we, I think we all experience winds and, and atmospheric motions. So I think the fact that the atmosphere move, uh, is something that we can all acknowledge. Um, but, uh, why does it move? Uh, so this is, this is kind of the broad theme of the question, the, the, the, the discussion. Uh, so, and so the first part, uh, maybe obvious, but, uh, the air motion are dissipated. So there is, there's whenever you have organized motion, it'll be dissipated. I'll talk about mechanical energy production in, in, in, in the atmosphere, the concept of the tangent, and then look a bit more if we have time, go back. We, we had a lot of, we have a couple of talks about, uh, about clouds and I'm going to talk about clouds as well because you know, they're cool. Uh, and then if I have time a little bit to talk about extreme weather and a bit what the future looks like for, for, for these things. Um, so, um, maybe, maybe the basic, uh, one-on-one, right? So the atmosphere moves. So I just, uh, uh, here, this is, uh, some movies, some animation I just, uh, got from the, the, uh, NOAA website. So showing, I think the last two, I think it's about 40 hours of, uh, basically, uh, satellite observations. So showing, I think, a couple of days ago, there was some severe weather over Texas, uh, showing the development. So you see clouds, but you also saw wind. And so every time, every part of the atmosphere we notice, it's moving. Uh, and so the reason that, that it may seem obvious because we, we, we, we've seen that many times, uh, we experienced that, uh, every day. Uh, what is probably worth remembering is that if you were trying to do, like, if you, if you go, you, you know, if you take your bathtub, you put some water, you try to steer it around, motion tends to be dissipated. So we have what we call dissipation. So, so, so frictional dissipation. So whenever we have organized motion, they tend to develop, like wind, organized motion tend to develop to smaller scale in organized motion, and then basically end up dissipated to, to, to, to what we call molecular viscosity or friction. Um, this happened, um, this happened at, at, at various scales, at various places. So in the atmosphere, this primarily happened, uh, is what we call the planetary boundary layer, which is maybe the first 500 meter of the atmosphere of one or two kilometer, depending on the, the, the kind of cloud topography you have. Uh, but this is a region of the atmosphere where the, the, the, the, the, the atmosphere feel the effect of surface on surface. So I mean, through topography, to clouds, uh, possibly in a place like New York city, where you have plenty of, of, of, of building, right? So basically to, uh, interaction with basically the land surface. Um, and so we can compute this amount of dissipation. So we can look at, at, at, uh, uh, weather model. Uh, we can, we can do, look at measurement. And so the typical estimate for dissipation is about something that we call, so two to four watt per meter square. So, uh, two, two to four watt, uh, watt per meter square. Uh, so what does that mean? So maybe, maybe to put that in context. So in this take, uh, I collected a little bit of, uh, this idea of, of the, the watt per meter square, watt is a joule per second. So if we compare that to the energy we see by the sun, so the, we were, so the, the solar energy we get, so direct, uh, it's about 3,960 watt per meter square. If you translate that to global average, you would get something like 170 petawatts. So beta meaning 10 to the 15, right? So this is a huge amount of energy. Uh, I think by comparison, a full, uh, blown nuclear power point, something like on the other one gigawatt, uh, of, of electrical energy being produced. So that's, that's, uh, that's a giant amount of energy we receive from the sun. But I can trust the amount of infrared emission of the earth by the surface is something around 390 watt per meter square. Depends of course where you are, depends on temperature. Uh, this is the amount of emission surface. That means that the surface of the earth emit 190 petawatts. The difference between these 170, 190 petawatts is primarily due to the, the, the, the, the greenhouse effect. So that, that's what we, we, we, we, we, we've been messing up by increasing CO2 concentration and so on. Um, so these are very large numbers. If we go back to energy transport, like we get something, that's a number that we're going to use. So, uh, this is the amount of energy being redistributed by the atmosphere. So typically exported from tropical region, imported higher latitude. That's an above about 100 watt per meter square corresponding to about 50 petawatts. So what we're interested in is, is much smaller, right? So two to four watt, uh, per meter square, um, that's a small number in context. That's maybe like a few percentage of that energy transport, a few percent of the energy transport, but that's still averaged globally at something one or two petawatt. The last bit is to compare. So I, I just, uh, plugged down the number for basically what is the global electric, uh, electricity production that I did, uh, today. And so we, we actually produce, I mean, I was, uh, impressed that we, we actually produce on the order of 0.01 petawatts. Uh, so this is the all, uh, electrical production, uh, around the globe. Uh, and so by comparison, uh, this is only amount, if you translate that to, to, to, to this watt per meter square, it's only 0.01 watt per meter square. So the amount of energy we're talking about for dissipation, it's small in comparison to the energy flux atmosphere. It's still, uh, a very large in comparison to what whatever we do. Um, let me, uh, next slide. So now we, we, we have to, so this dissipation, right? It's a measure of how much work is being lost. So how much wind energy is being lost, uh, at any point in time in, in the atmosphere. Um, the, um, the element parts here is that, uh, in order to maintain this emotion, when the atmosphere needs to generate this, this motion again, all the time. And so the way that we, we, we, we want to think about that is that it needs to generate this work. The simplest, uh, way we can think of, uh, for doing is basically to a combination of having lighter rising and heavier, uh, heavier sinking. So that, that's something that, uh, for example, this is a picture on the right hand side showing you the, um, a bowl of miso soup. And in a bowl of miso soup what happens is that you have, you have the, the hot soup. Uh, you should, you should only have hot miso soup, of course. Um, but so the, the, the hot water evaporated surface, so you have cooling at the top. And so that generate basically a density difference within the, the fluid, especially the fluid at the top, the, the soup at the top is a bit colder and you get this sinking motion. And the sinking motion is what you see in this area where you basically have less of the, of the, the mesoparticle, the, the, the fermented soybean particle. So when you have rising motion, you bring, you bring the, the, the, the, the soybean particle up and then the sinking motion gives you this region of, of where we have sinking motion. You see the same thing, for example, when you, you eat up, uh, uh, in your kitchen or you, you, you eat up water at, at some point you can notice the, the, these, uh, this motion, right. Um, and so, uh, so in effect, when we look at atmospheric circulation, right. So a lot of the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the ascending of, uh, nice typo, uh, of light air. So to say, the light, light air means warm and typically moist as well. Uh, we see a lot of situation where we have a warm air rising called air sinking. Uh, so for example, on the upper left side, so you see a kind of a description of the global circulation. And so where we have these, uh, global planetary scale circulation, in particular, with this at least circulation, that's associated with these, uh, deep, uh, precipitations though, and along the equatorial region. So we have air rising near the equator, moving forward and sinking over the subterranean region. And so this is a configuration where you have a warm air rising along the equator and sinking at lower temperature and, and being heavier, uh, in the, in the subtropics. Uh, another example. So for example, on, on the lower right side of the dead, it's, uh, you, it's maybe hard to see on the, on the, on the, on the live stream, but there's a cause of the U S coast. We have an extra tropical cyclone. So you have a nice structure and within that extra tropical cyclone on the right side, we have this cloudy structure. This is warm moisture coming from the subtropical region. That's rising. That's why we have this large cloud structure. And then next to it, we have this cold front with basically cold dry air coming from air latitude and also coming from above, slightly sinking down. So this is not an example where we have these ascendant warmer subsidence of cold air. That's basically what is necessary for the weather system to generate, uh, to generate motion. Um, and then on the left-hand side, it's a smaller scale. So this is basically, uh, one of these criminal numbers clouds. We have these large ascent of this, uh, air rising from basically the, the lower part of this planetary boundary area. So for the few hundred meters, uh, from the surface all the way to basically the tropopause. So maybe 12 or 16 kilometers, wherever you are. And again, these are characterized with basically warm, warm moisture going up, cold dry going down. Um, okay. So warm, warm air rising, cold air sinking is, is kind of a good way of generating, generating medical, mechanical energy. Um, but one of the elements is that, right, if this is the only part of the theory, we would run out at some point of, of warmer to go up, cold air to, to, to, to go down, right? Because at some point all the warmer would have, would have risen, all the cold air would have subsided, and then everything would go and become quite sand again. So the way to, to, to change that is that if we had now, uh, the fact that we have warming and cooling, so we can change the property of, of the air parcels by basically warming them up and cooling them down. And so in particular, if you, what we want to do, we want to create a continuous new supply of warm air near the surface so that it can rise up and a continuous supply of cold air that can sink higher up in the atmosphere. And so to do that, we basically need to add up, uh, energy source. So we basically, we need, uh, to heat up the, the, the surface. So we need to add energy at the surface so we can turn cold air mass to warmer masses. And similarly, we need cooling at the top of the atmosphere where we have basically, uh, we can turn the warmer that just rise into colder air that can sink along. And so this is the basic setup for what we call a heat engine. Uh, so where we have this combination of, we have warm energy source, energy source at high pressure at near the surface and typically high temperature. And then we have cooling at basically higher altitude and lower temperature and connecting these two. We have this combination of warm air rising, colder sinking, uh, that can basically generate motion, uh, in a conscious rate, in the conscious rate. And so, so that, that's kind of closing the loop of basically, oh, we can maintain that on. So we can generate kinetic energy by this warmer, colder motion, but at the same time we can sustain that we, in the, the atmosphere has been moving for the last four billion years. And so we can do that over a very long time scale just by having this warming cooling. Um, so, um, the idea now of, of, of, of basically the heat engine is actually, it's a, it's an older one. So, uh, uh, I'll, I'll, I'll leverage my Frank Saxon to, to, to, to read a quote, uh, uh, or maybe I'll read in English that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that this is a study car now. So it's, it was a, a French engineer in the, in the early centuries. And so they were trying to, at that point, they, they, they figure out how to basically make steam engine and all kinds of stuff like that. And they're trying to figure out, uh, how much work can, that, that can be done. And so, uh, basically come up with what we, we've known as the, the, the, the, the, the second of thermodynamics, it was formulated about 40 years later, but, uh, it was, it was the initiator of that, that idea, especially it was the guy who, who introduced the idea of, of, of, of, of a, of a, of a, when we know as a kind of cycle, but basically this heat engine, and I think one of the quote, what I like about this quote is that not only was working, thinking about the steam, uh, so, so train, things like that, but he was also directly thinking about motion of, of, of clouds and, and, um, and rain. So, uh, and so in particular, if you go back to, to that structure, so this is how we, we're going to think about, about the atmosphere, right? We have these warming at the surface, we have cooling. So the air receive energy from the sun, it's absorbed at the surface. So we have this, this, this warming coming out, we have cooling at the top, uh, through the, through the atmosphere, through the emission of light radiation. And so we have this differential heating that set up the condition necessary for the heat engine. One thing to remember too, is that the temperature of the earth is much higher at the surface than, for example, if you go up in, in, in, you, you go up in, in the atmosphere. So we know that when you go up in a mountain, where it's always colder, the higher you go. Uh, the coldest point in the atmosphere is about like 12, 16 kilometer in the tropical region, where, where basically we have temperature as low as minus 70 degrees Celsius. And in between, we have the atmospheric circulation here symbolized by this cloud rising and this be transporting here from there. Uh, on top of that, and I realize I'm way over time, so, so it'll be interesting. Uh, but, uh, we can quantify this part by, by saying, um, that the, the, the kind of framework basically give a prediction that how much work can be done. And so this is the, the work that can be done is basically proportional to the amount of heat that's being transported and the difference of temperature between the, the heat source and heat sink. And so when we do that, so we can get an estimate, uh, of, of how much work. And so if you remember from the initial discussion, the queue, the, here, the heat transported by the atmospheric circulation, something about 100 Watt per meter square, the temperature difference, uh, you can take about like a 30 degree difference between the average surface temperature of the earth and the temperature which we lose infrared radiation. So that gives you an efficiency of about 10%. So give you a maximum work on, on the order of 10 Watt per meter square. Um, so this is, this is the framework, uh, that we're going to do that with. So quickly, uh, I'll, I'll try to, to, to, to, to, to, to go out a bit and then, uh, uh, uh, I'll be happy to, to answer a question on other topics I won't be able to cover. But so one of the aspects of this issue, right. So if it's the, the fact that, uh, we're not talking about the heat transport. And so when we're on track about the, the, the, this, this, uh, Carnot cycle, the, this heat engine, we have to account for the fact that a lot of the heat transport by the atmospheric circulation is actually done by basically what the electrical cycle and partly the fact that we have clouds and, and clouds essentially, uh, warm, moist air going up, water condense in the clouds falling down as precipitation. And these clouds, these, these, these, these latin transport, I can actually for about up to 75% of the heat transport by the atmospheric circulation, it's the bulk of the upward transport. So a bit less, if you look at transport from in the north side direction. And so this, the, the way that this heat engine, the atmospheric heat engine is set up is basically modulated by the electrical cycle in a way that is, is, is very unusual. If you, if you, if you transfer in directly from physics, some of the intuition that you may get from, from, from looking at, at thermodynamics 101, uh, may not apply because, because basically we have to care about clouds. So the first thing that actually we have to think about is actually, we talk about dissipation early on. We talk about dissipation from the wind. Actually, there's another dissipation process in the atmosphere, which, uh, we, we, we, has often been overlooked by the fact that it rains. And so, um, rain droplets typically tear, fall down at basically a, what we call the terminal velocity. So it's a few, a few meters per second. So, which is nice because when you hit by a rain droplets, it's, you're not going to be hurt too much because it just, you're going to feel it, but it's not, not traumatic. The reason that they're only falling that slowly is because they're basically slowing down by interaction with the air around it. Uh, for, for example, if you'd know, if you were to take a, a drop, a water droplet, sorry, uh, that's basically start to fall out even for, for, you know, your, your, your nice stratocomalous cloud that may be one kilometer in the atmosphere. If it were to fall in free fall, right? So if you, if you drop an object for, for, for, for an altitude of a thousand meter, by the time it's going to reach a surface, I think it's, it's velocity should be on the order of, of, uh, 100 miles per hour. So your typical droplets would be, would be quite dangerous and you wouldn't be able to get out when it rains, but because the, the, the, the air around it's slowed on all these rain droplets, the velocity, the terminal velocity of this droplet is something that is, is very, uh, much milder. And so we can, um, we can walk outside during the rain and, and, and survive. Uh, the counterpart of that is that basically we're going to get, uh, a dissipation associated with that. It turns out that, that we, we did the calculation a couple of years ago, estimating the amount of dissipation by, by all the precipitate, all the, the, the, the precipitating system. We are using, uh, uh, NASA satellite time that basically we, we build up an estimate or something of the order of, uh, something between one and two watt per meter square. So the number we got from the satellite is 1.2 watt per meter square. We would love to do another study kind of like confirming or see if we can get, uh, refined and more data. Uh, but this is the number where if you remember the, this dissipation by precipitations, all the rain got the work down to, to, to lift all the, all the, all the, all the cloud droplets. Um, basically it's almost half as much as all the work done to maintain all the atmospheric motion. So, so rain matters, cloud matters in this regard. Um, I think I'm going to skip a little bit. I'm going to talk, uh, another element I'm going to quickly talk about is the fact that another role of the electrical cycle is keeping the atmosphere dry. Uh, and so it turns out that the fact that the, so one of the, so which I mentioned that one of the starting point, the fact that it was removed is something that is unusual if you compare that to, for example, what happened in your bathtub. Another unusual aspect of the atmosphere is the fact that we have an atmosphere that's sitting over an ocean, right? So we have a massive supply of water, of water vapor for, for the atmosphere. If you want to, to, to evaporate the atmosphere continuously, yet the atmosphere is, is mostly unsaturated. So if you take a vacation in, in, in, in the Caribbean, you know, if you're, if you're a mass of the day, right, except if it's when it's pouring, then most of days it doesn't rain. Most of the time you experience relatively dry condition. Um, and so that is a directly connected to the agricultural cycle, which basically we have air rising and falling as precipitation, and then air coming back from higher up, coming back unsaturated, uh, as drier. And it turns out that this aspect of the atmosphere, so keeping the atmosphere dry, interfere with the ability of the atmosphere to work as a heat engine. And so this is, this is, this is one of the elements that, that we've been working on to better understand our heat can change in the past. Uh, I'm reading a bit of time, so if someone wants to ask a question about this in weather, I'll be, I'll be, I'll be, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll segue in. And I think I probably should slow down. How much time do I have, Andrew? Should I, I think I'm, I'll be happy to stop by. Yeah, if you could, if you could go ahead and wrap up in the next minute or two, then I'll give us two or three minutes for questions. Yes. So I'll, I'll, I'll wrap up here. So, uh, one thing we asked is, so, so, so some of the part, I think we, we, we're very excited, uh, in term of like the upcoming research. So one of things that is, is, is, is very interesting is the fact that we have a new generation of climate models that are being currently built by NOAA, DOE, INCAR, also in Europe and Japan, uh, and, and China. Uh, and these, uh, the, the key change that's happening in the, the, these weather and climate models that now we're getting these, uh, weather and climate model that's simulating the atmosphere are down to the scale of few kilometers. And in particular, when you, if you can do that, and this requires a very large computer, it's also the computer model, uh, uh, are very sophisticated, you can actually simulate explicit clouds rather than do what climate and weather model have been relying, relying on what we use these, we call the term parameterization. So rather than explicitly simulating clouds and, and convection, we, we, we generate, um, through semi-paramical, uh, parameterization that, that represent that. The key effect of that is that the, the, this new generation of weather and climate model will actually capture fully these atmospheric heat engines. So we can be able to really capture the the energy transport, but also all the atmosphere is going to basically generate motion by itself, which basically by comparison, the previous generation of cloud and all the weather model only accounted for about 50% of that, that upward energy transport. So missing big chunk of that, that heat engine. Okay. And I'll stop here. Thank you. Well, thank you. Uh, imagine everybody, uh, applauding you. Um, uh, thank you very much for that really interesting talk. Um, I think we have time for a couple of questions. Um, so there's a really good question from Henry Drake. Um, if we replaced all of our electricity generation of wind turbines, what would that amount of dissipation affect, uh, what would that amount of dissipation, uh, affect global wind patterns? I know people have looked at that. What's your opinion on that? Um, I think, uh, so locally, it might be, it might be, it might have some impact, uh, but the amount of energy, uh, you know, the current amount of energy is less than, than, than 1% of what the atmosphere does on a, on, on a regular basis. Uh, so the, the amount of energy that we'd be extracting from the atmosphere would be, would be, would be very small. Uh, so I don't think, uh, I personally don't think that would be, that, that, that would be, uh, uh, a serious problem. Another element is I think like, like on the dream, right? If we could, for example, tap more of that energy falling in precipitation, right? That's again, like just the energy from rainfall is, is one rate times more than, than, than, than the energy that we get from, from electricity production. So there's a potential opportunity if someone come with, with a very clever idea, uh, to generate energy, to, to use that, that energy generated by the atmospheric circulation. Yeah. I think if I remember correctly, the work that's been done on that suggested you have a big wind farm, it can have local effects, um, uh, on boundary layer, boundary layer dynamics, but it's not, I think you're right. You'd have to have a wind farm that covers all of North America before it starts to, you know, have an effect. Um, uh, uh, let's see. Um, uh, there was another question, which looks like it got deleted, but I thought it was actually a good question. Um, uh, which was about, uh, how do you, how is climate change going to change these circulations? Um, I mean, that's a broad topic. Uh, maybe I can, I can, I can, I can try it a little bit of, of, of one element. Um, so I've talked a little bit about what, so the, the climate change is going to change the circulation in many ways. Uh, and so, so that's part of it. One, one interesting element of that is that actually we expect the climate change to slow down the electrical cycle. So, uh, which is essentially, uh, the amount of air. So if we talk about energy transport, right? So the, the atmosphere act to transport the amount of, uh, this, uh, one red petawatt of energy around, uh, but as the climate warms, there is more moisture in the air. And so moisture, more moisture means they have more latent heat in, uh, carried by air parcels. So in order to do the same amount of energy transport, you need to transport less mass. And I think that that's one of the, the kind of, kind of like driving chance for all the change of electrical cycle is that all the energy transport that, that, that, that will, that needs to happen can be achieved by moving less air masses in a warmer climate. And, and this has, this has a lot of implication, both from like things like highly circulation, worker circulation. And we see some of that in climate models. Um, but again, the climate models kind of miss the current generation climate models, kind of missing part of the, of, of what, what should be happening because of, of that reliance of current station. But the slowdown of circulation is one of the, the constant element we see in climate climate models. All right. Well, thank you very much. I think, uh, we probably need to move on to our next speaker, but that was really great. I really appreciate you taking the time to, um, um, explain, explain, uh, atmospheric circulations to us. Um, okay. So, um, so, uh, thank you for joining us, uh, for our, uh, 47 of the weather and climate live stream. We have 53 hours to go and, you know, we're thrilled that you're here again. I, there are about 900 people watching and I can't tell you how, how much I appreciate it. And all the other organizers do, you know, this really shows us that you all support science. Uh, my name is Andy Dessler. I am a professor at Texas A&M in the department of atmospheric sciences, and I'm the host for this segment. Um, we've seen a lot of great talks and I'll introduce the next speaker in a minute before we begin. Uh, just a brief reminder that all of our speakers are appearing in their personal capacities and expressing their own views, which may not be those of other participants, their, um, institution that they're employed by or their funding agencies. However, we're all here with a shared purpose. Americans deserve good weather and climate forecasts, uh, the kind of save lives during hurricanes, help farmers, plan their cops and guide families making weekend plans. Uh, U S scientists have been world leaders in this for decades. Um, but now funding cuts are threatening areas of weather and climate science. We're seeing weather stations, short staff, just one extreme weather events are becoming more frequent dangerous. Climate research labs have operated for decades are shrinking or shuttering entirely, uh, taking with them irreplaceable expertise in decades of climate records. Uh, we need your help to save our forecast. Normally there's something rolling at the bottom, but it's not, I'm sure they'll put the link up in a minute. There's a link that you can use. You can click to, to contact your representatives. And I, I say this every time and I'll keep saying it every time people think their representatives don't listen, but if you call them, they do because they understand how much effort it takes to pick up the phone and call. A lot of people won't do that. So if you call, they know there's a hundred other people that aren't calling. And so your calls have enormous leverage. So please contact your representative, um, and help save our forecast. So let's, uh, move on to our next speaker. Um, let me introduce, uh, Marie McGraw. Uh, she has a BS in mechanical and ocean engineering from MIT and has a PhD in atmospheric science from CSU Colorado State. Her current research focuses on the intersection of machine learning and artificial intelligence with tropical meteorology, including machine learning forecast of tropical cyclone intensity and using AI to understand tropical cyclone structure. So hopefully Marie, that was all right. If, if, if anything I said was wrong, please correct me, but otherwise take it away. No, thanks for the great, um, intro Andy. And, um, yeah, I'm going to give you guys a little whiplash because we just had an awesome, uh, talk about very, uh, physics, um, guided modeling, and I'm going to kind of go in the opposite direction and talk about data-driven modeling. Um, and I also want to note, so, uh, my name is the only name on this presentation. Um, I don't know if my slides are sharing yet. Uh, there they are. Okay. So yeah, my name is the only name of this presentation, but everything that I'm showing today is very much a team effort. Um, um, we have over two dozen contributors to, uh, the various projects that I'm going to talk about today. They're from all over the world. They're at varying stages in their career from very early to very, very senior. Um, and they've all contributed in one way or another to this work. So yeah, science is very much a team effort. Uh, so I'm going to start, uh, just by, um, answering a pretty basic question. What is a tropical cyclone? Um, and this is just an image of hurricane Otis, uh, from fall 2023, which was a very, uh, powerful and devastating, uh, uh, hurricane that made landfall in Mexico. So if you look for a definition of a tropical cyclone from a reputable source, like the world meteorological organization, you'll get something like this rapidly rotating storm that begins over tropical oceans and varies in speed side and size and intensity. If you run into me, uh, out and about, and you ask me the same question, I would give you a similar definition, uh, relatively large rotating storm forms in the tropics and it can bring really strong winds, flooding, and huge amounts of rain to affected areas. And I just want to note really quickly. So hurricanes and typhoons, depending on where you live are kind of a subset of tropical cyclones. Um, if a storm gets strong enough, it gets upgraded to a hurricane or a typhoon and hurricanes, um, they're called the strong storms are hurricanes in the Atlantic and the East Pacific. So sort of in the Western hemisphere, in the, um, Northwest Pacific, they're called typhoons. And then in the Southern ocean and the Indian ocean, they're usually just called cyclones. Okay. So what we've established, what a tropical cyclone is, um, and, uh, but why should you care? Um, especially if you don't live in Florida. Um, and there are a couple of reasons you should care. One reason is tropical cyclones are really expensive. So even if you don't live in Florida or Louisiana or Texas, uh, they impact you. And by the way, hurricanes impact a lot more places than you might think. Um, they cause flooding and wind damage all over, not just Florida and the Gulf coast. Um, many of you probably remember hurricane Helene from last year causing massive, massive damages in the Appalachians, very much not on the coast. Uh, hurricane Fiona a couple of years ago caused a lot of damage in Atlantic Canada. So all the way up North, they're still not safe from hurricanes, even, even in Nova Scotia. Um, so what I'm showing here on, on my screen is a figure from the NOAA billion dollar disaster data set. And this data set tracks how much, um, in billions of dollars, weather disasters cost the United States every year. So each line on this figure is a different year. And we start counting the cost of disasters in January. And we just kind of keep, uh, adding it up through the end of the year. Uh, hazards tracked include droughts, flooding, freezing events, severe storms, wildfire, winter storms, tropical cyclones. Um, and this QR at the bottom will take you to the homepage for this data set, which is super cool. A lot of fun to play around with good visualizations. If we just focus on tropical cyclones, um, the Y axis actually changes very little because it turns out tropical cyclones are actually the most expensive disasters in the U S by far. Nine of the top 10 most expensive natural disasters ever have been tropical cyclones. Um, in an average year, uh, tropical cyclones cost our country about $34 billion a year in really crazy years, 2017, for example, we had hurricane Harvey, hurricane Maria. Those were two very catastrophic hurricanes. Uh, they can cost as much as $340 billion a year. Um, so tropical cyclones, more importantly than money, they're also really deadly. They kill people. Um, in the U S since 1980, we think we estimate we've had over 7,000 deaths due to tropical cyclones, um, which comes out to an average of about 160 deaths per year. And this is just for the U S, tropical cyclones kill people all over the world. Um, not just the U S and we've had almost 700 deaths due to tropical cyclones since 2020. And this is despite really, really impressive improvements in our ability to forecast tropical cyclones. And I'm going to talk about those forecasts in a minute. Before I do, I want to point out that these figures are from the NOAA billion dollar disaster data set. And two or three weeks ago, it was announced that this data set will no longer be updated. Um, it's going to stop in 2024 due to, uh, evolving priorities and staffing changes. Um, so this is just one example of the the many amazing free publicly available data sets that NOAA, um, collects, maintains, and makes available to you for free. Uh, private companies like insurance companies will sometimes compile this kind of data, but they, they don't share it. Um, they keep it and they just use it in house. NOAA, uh, really makes sure that this data is getting to all of us. So again, um, the data is so important. Okay. So back to tropical cyclone forecasting. So, uh, meteorologists have made a ton of progress in tropical cyclone forecasting over the years, but it's just a really difficult problem. The experts at the National Hurricane Center use huge amounts of really complex data to put forecasts together and issue, uh, warnings, um, and, and so on. Things like satellite images and that, that shows us clouds, rain, lightning, all sorts of other cool stuff. Um, they use data from weather models, including special, uh, hurricane specific models. These wind measurements from buoys and airplanes, uh, Dr. Jeff Masters is going to talk about his experience on one of these airplanes that flies into hurricanes later tonight. So check that out. Um, I've read his blog posts about it. Very scary. I do not want to be on one of those planes. Uh, we use ocean data like sea surface temperature that tell us how warm the ocean is. And when storms get close enough to land, we also use radar when they're out in the middle of the ocean, though, you can't usually see them on radar. They have to be close to your radar for us to be able to use radar. But all of these data sets are really complicated. They're being updated constantly. Some of our satellite images get updated every 10 minutes. Um, and the forecasters have to kind of take all this in and include all of this in their, in their decisions. So forecasting is hard, uh, but, um, through the efforts of the NHC, other parts of NOAA and our universities and other and cooperative institutes, hurricane forecasts have improved so much. So each line on this figure represents the average forecast error, um, over a decade. And as we go down in time, these lines get lower, meaning our errors are decreasing and our forecasts are getting better. So this is, uh, uh, errors for track forecasts. So that's where the tropical cyclone is going, um, where it's going to impact. So we've improved so much since, uh, the fifties and sixties. So this is awesome. Um, for our forecasts of intensity, which is how strong the storm is. So usually how strong the winds are, or maybe how low the lowest pressure is. Um, we haven't improved quite as quickly, uh, but we have still seen a lot of improvement, especially since 2010. So, uh, hard work by the hurricane center, um, our data, uh, collection, our data assimilation, our NOAA scientists, our university scientists, our cooperative institutes have all contributed to these lines going down over the years. So that's, that's awesome and a huge success story. So, uh, another, um, thing that, uh, me and many of my colleagues have been thinking about with, um, um, with AI, uh, is, is AI another opportunity for us to, um, improve these forecasts? Um, so can, can we use AI to improve TC forecasting? Um, is that another opportunity for improvements? So obviously, this is a really big question. I could spend like 20 hours of this live stream, just talking about this. So we're going to break it down into a bunch of smaller questions. So we're looking at things like, can AI weather prediction models make skillful forecasts of tropical cyclones? So models like Google's weather model, uh, can AI models help us get those forecast errors down and under quantify our uncertainty? Uh, can we use AI models to help us get better at predicting rare or extreme events? Can we use AI models to learn more about the physics of tropical cyclones? Because there's a lot we still don't know. Maybe AI models can help us learn some physics. Um, can we use AI to enhance existing data sets, create new data sets, and use those data sets to find new predictors for our forecast models? Um, and finally, how can we help our fellow earth scientists effectively, and that effectively is very important, um, incorporate AI into their own work? I saw a bunch of talks last night from people like Maria Molina and Amy McGovern talking about AI, and, and we all just want to really emphasize AI models can be a great tool, but they're only as good as the data you build them with and the expertise of the people creating the data sets and interpreting the end results. So really, really key. Okay. So obviously that's way too much to talk about in 20 minutes. Um, so I'm going to focus a little bit more on these top two questions. Um, and then I'm going to do kind of a lightning round through these other four that's pretty much just going to give you stuff to Google and maybe stuff to, um, uh, you can ask me in the Q and A if anything sounds cool. So we're going to start with can AI weather prediction models like those developed by companies like Google make schoolful forecasts of tropical cyclones? Um, so, uh, a traditional weather model solves, uh, numerically, uh, numerically solves really complicated equations of physics. Um, if you've ever taken a science or engineering class, you probably recognize some of these. Um, if you haven't, uh, rest assured they are really, uh, difficult to solve, but again, they're physics. We understand what's happening. Generally, we understand the results usually. Um, that said, it is really difficult to model complex, non-linear, really small, really fast phenomena, or maybe phenomena we don't fully physically understand yet. Um, modeling small things and big things at the same time is really hard. So for example, things like what happens inside a cloud, very hard to model that at the same time that you make a global weather forecast. Um, and these models that solve these physical equations are computationally expensive and intensive. It takes a lot of resources to run them. So AI models are a little bit different. They ingest large amounts of data. Um, and they just kind of, they look for patterns in this data. They're not constrained by the laws of physics, although figuring out how to do that is actually a really hot topic of research. So maybe in a couple years, uh, we'll have some more news on that. Um, but that means the results aren't always easy to interpret and they really need to be validated thoroughly to make sure that we trust like that this is a good result that it's not just kind of garbage. Um, these models are, uh, not as limited, uh, by spatial and temporal scales. We can run them at high resolution and they're really powerful computationally. So Google estimates that their GenCast model needs only eight minutes to make, um, hundreds of 15 day forecasts of over 80 variables at quarter degree spatial resolution. Um, so this is using Google's, uh, internal computational resources, which are huge, but still that's crazy. That's really, really fast. So that gives us opportunities to do things like run thousands of simulations, um, of, of the weather model, which we can't do now. Okay. So, uh, yeah. So are these AI models, um, are they making useful forecasts of tropical cyclones? So, um, a study led by, uh, Dr. Mark DiMaria and Dr. Jacob Radford looked at, um, sort of analyzing the AI hurricane model hurricane forecast, the same way forecasters at the hurricane center analyze our numerical forecasts. And when they did this, um, they found that for track forecasts, um, the AI models improve the track forecast. So the lines, uh, lines above zero means that our forecasts have improved. So the AI models, uh, improve track forecasts by over 10% at the longest forecast lead times. So that's really cool. Actually. Um, they don't help quite as much in those, those early forecast time periods, but four or five days out there, they're really helping to improve those, uh, forecasts of where the hurricane is going. And this is a really big improvement. Um, usually we make improvements on the order of one to 2% a year. So this is like five years worth of improvements. Um, so that's awesome. They did the same thing to look at intensity forecasts. So how strong the winds are. Um, and unfortunately that was, uh, not quite as good. So, uh, the AI models, again, we're below zero. This means the AI models are really not improving those intensity forecasts, especially at those early forecast times. Um, so then we need some work when it comes to, to this. Um, the hypothesis put forth by Dr. Di Maria, um, is that the model, the AI models are kind of preferentially learning weaker vortices, and then a bias kind of carries through the whole simulation. So making models a little more physics aware, uh, could go a long way. So, um, I'm going to talk next a little bit about using AI models to improve uncertainty quantification. Um, so weather forecasts, uh, are, are not just a best guess. Uh, we usually include a full range of possibilities and uncertainty quantification refers to that estimate around the best guess forecast. So something like, well, we think the wind gusts are going to hit about 50 miles per hour, but the errors on those are 20 miles per hour. So they could be as low as 30, could be as high as 70 miles per hour. Uh, so usually when we make a prediction or a forecast, we don't just make that central best guess prediction. Um, but we also, uh, include uncertainty around that prediction, which is really important for emergency management, decision makers, et cetera. And if you've ever seen the national hurricane center, the cone, the famous cone, that's an example of, uh, an uncertainty estimate, um, that, that, uh, we use. So, um, so, uh, my colleagues and I have been working on an AI model that estimates, um, tropical cyclone forecast errors. Um, so we have a pretty simple neural network that outputs a whole probability distribution rather than just one prediction. Um, and we also designed it to work within the existing hurricane forecasting system, which is really important. Um, it helps make sure that your model is actually going to be used by the end users. Um, so this, uh, model was first developed by, uh, Barnes et al. If you want to see the details, the AI details, I would say, check that out. Um, it's, it's a really cool, uh, and pretty simple AI structure. Um, and this figure here is an example of the kind of forecasts our model can make. So this red line is the AI model's best guess forecast. And the blue line is the forecast from the national hurricane center. And those are pretty close together, which is good. We wouldn't want to see them really far apart. Um, because that would probably mean that something was wrong with our AI model. And then all of the shading is just the errors and uncertainty around this red line. So the orange is kind of half of our simulations fall in that orange, uh, orange shading. The turquoise is, uh, the realistic best and worst case scenario. So 10th to 90th percentile. And then the gray is kind of our most extreme values, excuse me. Um, and we've made these figures and evaluated our model for, um, 2023 and 2024 forecasts. And we've seen that, um, errors for storms are similar and in many cases actually lower than the current models. So we're hoping that this model can help, um, improve our, uh, forecast errors. And we did something similar for track forecasts. Um, so this paper by Dr. Martin Fernandez actually just got published yesterday. Woo. Um, so just in time for me to, uh, swipe this figure. Um, and again, here we see in red, we have our AI model track prediction and blue is the NHC track prediction and our red lines are lower, which is good. Um, lower errors. Um, and again, we can see that the AI models help with, um, with, um, reducing those forecast errors and making better predictions. Um, so yeah. Okay. So now I'm going to go to our, uh, lightning round and I'm just going to show a couple of things really quickly to try to give you like a sense of the breadth of the kind of stuff we're working on. So a big thing, uh, that has been going on is using AI to create enhanced, uh, data sets. So things like, um, synthetic passive microwave, uh, imagery and awesome effort by Dr. Kathy Haynes. Uh, Dr. Chuck White has created this super high resolution satellite imagery using AI. Very, very cool. Um, and, uh, Dr. Kyle Hilburn has, uh, used AI to create synthetic radar imagery, which can help us in regions where we don't have good radar coverage. Um, so all of this is super cool, very creative. Um, we've used AI to better understand TC physics, uh, PhD candidate, Frederick Tam, just published a really cool study about using AI to identify 3d patterns that lead to tropical cyclone intensification. very, very cool. I have done some work myself on using AI generated satellite data to better understand TC evolution. Hopefully a paper will be coming soon for that. And then Dr. Saranya Ganesh-Sidhish led a super cool effort that uses machine learning and causal inference to find potential new predictors that we can add into our existing models to make them better. We've done a lot of AI and forecasting rare and extreme events. So both of these projects on forecasting tropical cyclone formation, which is a rare event, happens less than 0.1% of the time. So these were both led by students. Marshall Baldwin, who just graduated with a master's, and PhD candidate Milton Gomez have both done really cool work using AI to improve our ability to identify when tropical cyclones form. So sort of their birth. We've also, there's been a ton of work on forecasting tropical cyclone rapid intensification, which is when the wind speed of the tropical cyclone increases a lot very quickly. And that often, that can be really, really high consequence, and it's hard to forecast. So we've had a ton of effort. Dr. Sarah Griffin, Dr. Ryan Lagerquist, myself, Dr. Chris Slocum have all done a lot of work on this topic. The model I showed a couple slides ago, the simple neural network, we've also looked at rapid intensification and seen, especially at longer lead times, that our model can do pretty well with that. And then I threw this in here. It's not exactly a rare event, but landfalling tropical cyclones are really high consequence. So Dr. Martin Fernandez also worked on reducing uncertainty for landfall prediction. We've got a couple more cool improving our forecast with AI models and using AI to make better forecasts. Dr. Ryan Lagerquist has been trying to use AI to better find TC centers. Dr. Randy Chase led this really cutting edge study on using diffusion models to make really short term predictions of satellite images, this is super cutting edge, very cool. Dr. Jacob Radford has been looking at precipitation forecasts and AI weather models, and they're not a thing they don't necessarily do well. And then Professor Tom Buchler and his PhD student Milton Gomez have led a benchmarking effort to help AI weather models evaluate and improve tropical cyclone forecasts. So finally, something that is really important to me and many of my colleagues is trying to make AI more accessible to our fellow Earth scientists. So I'm going to highlight two efforts here that are kind of data centric. So Dr. Nafal Razan led this effort called TC Primed that created an AI-ready data set for tropical cyclones. The paper in the data set, you can see those QR codes at the bottom. And Dr. Razan led this really massive effort to assimilate tons of satellite, radar, precipitation data for tropical cyclones and sort of combine it in a way that makes it really, like he did the hard work for us, you know, so we get to just do the fun stuff. And Dr. Jacob Radford undertook a similar effort to create an AI weather model forecast archive. He used four AI weather forecast models and created several years of forecasts so that we can really try to comprehensively evaluate and understand what these AI models can do well and what they don't do so well. And those two QR codes are also linked on the bottom. All right, so I want to end by saying that this work has been supported by U.S. science institutions. I personally have primarily been supported by the National Science Foundation and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, including the National Hurricane Center, the Office of Atmospheric Research, and the NOAA Center for AI. So NOAA, NSF, and other public science institutions like the EPA and NASA, they give us grants to do our work, but they do so much more than that. They give us amazing data. And again, they do the hard parts, so we get to do the fun part. They make sure the data is good, easy to access, and that we can keep pulling it in as we need it. They give us resources like computational support, satellites, observation networks, etc. They provide training and educational resources for the public. They help us collaborate and share science, and they really invest in the future. So yeah, so this really is an investment in the future, not just of scientists, but of our whole society. Okay, and on that note, I will take a couple questions. Thanks so much for joining me today. Great. Well, thank you for your great talk. Everyone is applauding in the chat. Yeah, I appreciate that. So there are a bunch of questions that actually you can kind of combine into one idea, but Astor asked the question, which is, you said your research focus on AI, but AI can refer to so many different things. How would you compare what you do to the AI that's going to popularize in the last couple of years? So if I can paraphrase it, are you guys just going to chat GBT and typing in where is the hurricane going? Is that what you mean by AI? Oh, wait. Okay. So this is, okay, this is all very much my personal opinion. It does not represent the opinions of my colleagues or anyone I work with. So we do a lot of supervised learning. So that means that we kind of know what we're looking for. Chat GPT is a large language model, which is a form of unsupervised learning and chat GPT is like very unsupervised. I personally do not. I think that we have a long way to go before large language models like chat GPT are going to do a whole lot, are going to be very useful in geospatial tasks like these. We have been getting asked this question a lot recently. I'm usually the biggest hater of chat GPT in the room. So I think targeted AI models like computational neural networks that have been developed to do image to image translation tasks, those work really well. And these AI weather models, which are unsupervised, but they're not the same as chat GPT, those do some things really well. But there's a lot that they still don't do well. And I think we're still kind of a ways before those models are actually used in an operational context. Yeah. Yeah. So put differently, this is completely different from chat GPT. And in fact, so someone else asked about the energy requirements, and the energy requirements are actually far less. People have no idea how big the computers that the weather service is running these forecasts on. I mean, your computer probably has, you know, eight cores, they're running on 100,000 to a million cores for hours to get forecasts. And these AI models are incredibly cheap. So actually, the AI models are actually save resources over the big, big iron things that the weather search. Now, it doesn't mean you can get rid of the weather service forecast, because you need to try something to train the models on. But I think they're really, I mean, would you agree with that? Yeah, and I really want to emphasize, we need the people. These models are only as good as the people creating the data, training the data and interpreting the data. And like the experts are key. We can't automate away the experts. I think, ideally, you know, if we can use AI to sort of improve the ways we gather and incorporate this data and to make models that run faster, and that we can run thousands of simulations, that would be great. But at the end of the day, we need humans at the beginning, humans in the middle and humans at the end. And forecasters, no model, physical or AI, can replace that human judgment and those years of experience that our human forecasters have. No model can ever replace that. But OpenAI is trying. They're trying to replace. But yeah, you're right. At this point, they can't do it. I'll tell you, I wish we could chat all day about AI. This is a true, you know, this AI and weather is a true scientific revolution. You know, I've been doing this for a while. And the amount of progress that's been made, the advances are just incredible. I mean, it's incredibly exciting as a scientist to see this. And this is what you got, you know, the general public is paying for, and we're delivering. And if we cut funding, we won't be delivering. Anyway, I want to thank you. I think we need to move on. But thank you very much. Yeah, I'll go. I'll jump in the chat and see if there are any more questions. Yeah, that'd be great. There are some really interesting questions in the chat. Yeah. Yeah. That would be fantastic. All right. So let's welcome everybody. Thank you for joining us at hour 47 of the weather and climate live stream. We have 53 hours to go. I think actually, we're actually at hour 48 now. I think they probably haven't updated that. But in any event, upper 40s. My name is Andy Dessler. I'll be the host for the next hour. We've seen a lot of great talk so far. And I think we've got a great speaker coming up. But before we get there, let me just give you a brief reminder that all of our speakers are appearing in their personal capacities and expressing their own views, which may not be those of other participants, their employer, or their funding institutions. However, we're all here for a shared purpose. Americans deserve good weather and climate forecasts, the kind that save lives during hurricanes, help farmers plan their crops and guide families making weekend plans. And you know, the last talk showed us how research is improving these forecasts. I mean, you pay for research, you get better forecasts. It's these forecasts save lives and save money. And it's emphasizing you guys are paying for this. This is this thing that you all own. That's incredibly valuable. But it's a it's it's under threat. Funding cuts are affecting all areas of weather and climate science. We're seeing weather stations short staff just when extreme weather is becoming more frequent and dangerous. Climate research labs have operated for decades are shrinking or shutting entirely. We need your help to save our forecasts. There's information about contacting right here. Call your representative. And you know, I've said it before, I'll keep saying it people think calling representative doesn't work. It does work. They care what people think because they know most people won't do it. So if somebody does call, it means they're really mad. And they know there's 100 people who haven't called. So if you call, that has enormous leverage. So please call your representative. All right, so let's welcome our next speaker is Sean Sublette. So Sean is a multimedia meteorologist and owner of Sublette Weather and Consulting. He lives in Richmond, Virginia. He has a bachelor's and master's degree from Penn State and holds an American Meteorological Society certified digital meteorologist designation. He spent 19 years as a broadcast meteorologist. And he's also worked at Climate Central and the Richmond Times Dispatch. And he has extensive experience in weather communication and climate science education. And you know, Sean is somebody that I don't think I've ever met you in person. But I feel like we're friends because I see you on social media all the time. I did a podcast with you. You know, so you feel like a friend, even though we've never met. So I really want to welcome you. And thank you for taking the time. And let me turn it over to you. Thank you, Andy. I appreciate that so much. And for those coming in just now, Andy Dessler there with Zeke Housefather have an amazing substat called the Climate Brink. If you don't subscribe, the first thing you should do after I'm done is go subscribe to their substat because it's wonderful. And Andy, I want to thank you personally. And of course, Zeke for doing that as well. You know, you talked about how important weather data is, but even the best forecasts, if they don't land the right way with an audience, don't have the value. Right. So one of the things that I've been working on in my career is figuring out better ways to communicate what we understand as meteorologists, climate scientists, and really earth scientists in general to the general public so they can take the actions that they need to take. So I call this weathering the 21st century. The photo on the left is for me there in South Richmond in February 1979, back when we got big snows, as they like to say, and a more recent photo when we had a lighter snow here in Richmond in January 2022. Just to recap how I got here, after my time in high school in Richmond, Virginia, I went up to Penn State to get the foundational science. I very briefly worked for a government contractor on the site of NASA Goddard Space Flight Center. I wrote a lot of code and I realized I didn't like writing a lot of code that I really enjoyed talking about the weather. So for the next 19 years, I did work as a broadcast meteorologist in the Roanoke Lynchburg area of Virginia. And I did that till about 2015. And then as Andy mentioned, I worked at Climate Central, met some brilliant people there, including Bernadette Woods-Plackey and the staff there, learning about climate science, several climate scientists, and also really started to take on some knowledge of the social sciences, understanding how people react to information. So I took that and then came back home to Richmond, worked for Lee Enterprises, which is the parent company of the Richmond Times-Dispatch, where I did multimedia weather and climate communications. As Andy mentioned, we ran a podcast for a while. I wrote articles, I did videos, the whole bit. So weather communications continues to evolve for those who have been around for a while. And remember the 1970s, you know, the little map with the little stickers, it has changed a lot. But the demand for relevant weather information remains high, whether it's on a traditional newscast, via social media, or during online video. And that's why weather apps have gotten so popular, right? And often, I know, Andy, you're probably asked this as well, what's the best one? Well, it depends on what you're actually aiming for. And the role of a lot of the media meteorologists today is to be that second source, as people still want human confirmation. As AI continues to ramp up, we want somebody to kind of walk us through, hey, is this right? Hey, this doesn't make sense. What does this actually mean? And the other thing I want to remind people is different apps use different data. There is no big one data set that everybody is using to decide weather apps. So there's no real consistency across weather apps. Some organizations use better data sets than others, but there's no one massive data set for everybody. I want to credit Tim Heller down in Houston about this slide, reminding you that the apps aren't going to tell you everything. What is the key weather message on any particular given day? Is it weather severe? Is it disruptive? Is it a little inconvenient? Is it optimal? Or is it just unusual? So what's the key weather message? Whether it's rapidly changing weather, like when does the bad thing stop? Decision support, what should I do next? Or just curiosity when you see something that's unusual outside. So let's go back to the classic example here of a severe thunderstorm watch, which most of us have had to deal with at least once in our lives, even on the West Coast where we don't typically have severe weather. We'll have some thunderstorms later here in Virginia, we expect. So we'll use this as a rapidly changing weather situation. Phone goes off, you've got a severe thunderstorm watch. What does that really mean? I mean, we've been doing this professionally since the 1980s, and we still need to remind people the difference between a watch and a warning. Because if it's not part of your everyday experience, you're not going to remember. So it's incumbent upon us to remind people, what does this really mean? Well, it means in the next few hours, the conditions in the atmosphere are becoming very favorable to produce thunderstorms that are going to do wind damage or hail, and sometimes even tornadoes. So what should I do? Probably nothing immediately, but raise awareness. Hey, there's some bad storms that might come down in the next few hours. Have a plan to be inside if you need that, which leads us to decision support. What are the risks if I'm doing an outdoor event? Let's say I'm having a birthday party for my six-year-old in the backyard. This thing hits my phone. What should I do? Well, as a media meteorologist, one of the things we could do is help. When does the threat end? You get a severe thunderstorm watch for a large area. If you know where you are in that area, and you can help the folks, for example, in Richmond, this severe thunderstorm watch goes for six or seven hours oftentimes. But we could say something like, you know what? It looks like the worst window for this is going to be, let's say, between six, seven, and eight p.m. So that gives additional information that is absent from the watch through no fault of the Storm Prediction Center because they do absolutely amazing work there in Norman, Oklahoma. The other thing we need to do better, and we're starting to get better at this as weather communicators and climate communicators, is to relay uncertainties. We all know that we don't know everything, but there are certain things that we can narrow down, like the specific time frame that we think storms are most likely, and we can tell you when that threat is cleared. Maybe the severe thunderstorm watch goes till 10 o'clock, but we know once this particular line of storms moves through, maybe by 830, it's all clear after that. And then we go back to unusual weather, improving the messages, and this is where we do a lot of unwinding of terms that have become very popular in the media landscape, like the polar vortex. And I encourage people, don't overthink big times like this. This is an unusual weather phenomenon to the average person. So be better with a basic answer. I mean, it's a regular circulation of very cold air around the North Pole, South Pole too. But most of us here are living in the Northern Hemisphere, and it travels in waves. Sometimes one of these waves moves a little farther south, unloads some Arctic air, and it comes down for a little while. Don't overthink it. I mean, we go on and on again about the tropospheric and the stratospheric polar vortex and all that stuff. But at the basics, a lot of the public's not going to remember that. But if you draw them a quickie picture, give a brief explanation, that normally works. And now in the social media age, with so many photos running around, these are things that have always been out there, but people see them more often now, like a hole punch or fall streak. You know, you've just got these very, very cold clouds high up in the atmosphere, cirrus and cirroquemus clouds, and they're kind of in this equilibrium. And if something flies through there, it disturbs the equilibrium. And you have these super cooled water droplets and ice crystals that begin to congeal. They weigh down and they fall in that kind of circular pattern. And you see that kind of feathered nature to that. Those are the falling ice crystals, which then tend to evaporate entirely on the way down. But it leaves this kind of unusual pattern in the sky that frankly freaks some people out. Speaking of that, I don't know a meteorologist that hasn't dealt with this, the condensation trails. You know, jet exhaust simply contains water vapor and jets 30 to 40,000 feet up in the sky are flying through some very cold air. Now, if that ambient air is close to saturation, the vapor that comes out of the back of that jet is going to condense and form a cloud. But this doesn't always happen. I mean, if the air is still cold, but very dry, the exhaust just remains invisible water vapor and we end up not seeing any actual condensation trail. But it's amazing to me that we still have to somehow explain this every week, something that I've known basically since I was a child in the 1970s. So going back to misinformation and understanding how to improve messages, we can fold this up into climate science. And it's important to know that communicating climate change, as I'm sure Andy will tell you, is a challenge because it seems to allow the general public as something that's psychologically distant in both time and space. But of course, the impacts are already here in hotter days, heavier precipitation and sea level rise. So to borrow, if not steal from Catherine Hayhoe, who I just adore, it's important to meet people where they are about this particular topic, which means we have to come to terms with public perspectives. This is from Ed Maybach and Tony Leiserwitz. They do fantastic work there, understanding how people perceive climate change and global warming. And most people are at least alarmed or cautious or concerned about this. A much, much smaller minority of folks are disengaged, doubtful and dismissive. But you also have to think about who are you talking to? Where do you want to reach them where they are with common values and come to some kind of conclusion together? And for this, I love to use analogies. This is one that Jim Gandy from South Carolina, I think, taught me first. I was in Philly for a while. So the rocky analogy plays here. Weather throws the punches, but climate trains the boxer. I'm a Penn Stater, as you can probably see back there. Weather's one football play, but climate's the whole season. I mean, this time of year, we can flip it and say weather's one inning in a baseball game, but climate's the whole season. And there's a lot of gaming going around nowadays. So I like to think of it as loading the dice. Weather is one roll of the dice, but climate loads the dice. So think about it this way. If you've got a pair of regular six-sided dice and you take one of them, change one of the faces from a one to a seven, and then just roll it over and over and over again, you're going to get different results than you got in the past. On occasion, you're going to roll a 13 and you never roll snake eyes again. And that way you've loaded the dice toward warmer weather or higher rolls in this case. So this is how we are loading the climate dice toward warmer weather. than we have just a generation ago. And these are the kinds of things that I like to pass along to people who have questions about climate change. And where you can show connections to things that are intuitive to people, does it seem like it's hotter? Well, you're right, because we're having way more hot records than we used to. And get in front of some of the myths. Yes, we have an urban heat island, but that makes the warming climate even worse. By the way, the Arctic is warming three times, perhaps four times faster, depending on who you're talking to at NASA. And there's not a lot of big cities in the Arctic, you know. So that's not all that's going on. And the polar bear thing is still out there. But the key here is that our current global society, increasingly global society, energy, business, agriculture, health, trade, these are all based on the climate from the late 19th and most of the 20th century. So we as humans are going to have to adapt to what we have been dealing with and what are going to have to deal with in the coming decades to century plus. So it's us and our livelihoods and our lifestyles, not just polar bears. And also give actionable information at the end. I mean, you don't want to just leave people with this information. So three little things. You can reduce food waste, which is going to any number of levels. But, you know, you hear about the carbon footprint, right? Getting food to market. But eat what you take, take what you eat, right? My mama taught me that back in the 70s. Rotting food produces methane, which is another greenhouse gas. Carbon dioxide is obviously the bigger one. Eat less meat. This gets a lot of noise. I would never tell anybody to stop eating their hamburgers. But I think we all know that too much red meat isn't good for your system either. I mean, my doctors told me that. But they also take the most energy and resources to raise. I'm not going to tell anybody they got to go vegan, but that's just the mathematics of it. And change the light bulbs if you can. The LED light emitting diodes, much better than the CFLs and the old fashioned incandescent light bulbs. And it tends to be cheaper, right? So we also are trying to remind people that they should not despair. We have made progress. There is a long, long way to go, right? But about 20 years ago, there was much more grave concern when coal was still being burned just in a maddening way. There's grave concern about a worst case scenario, global increase of nine or 10 degrees Fahrenheit by 2100. Coal is on the decline, mostly because natural gas is cheaper, to be honest. But that scenario, and Andy throw it back at me if you think I'm wrong, but it's almost been eliminated. Battery technology continues to evolve, which helps store things that we get from wind turbines and solar panels. We're already seeing a whole wind farm being developed, should be operational in 2026 offshore from Virginia Beach here in the Commonwealth. That's a photo I took of a solar farm just outside of my hometown here in Richmond, Virginia. So leave people with actionable information, but be realistic. We're all here over these hundred hours to be realistic. What are some of the real world implications for the NOAA cuts? That's a classic WSR 88D Doppler radar, and there's more than a hundred of these all across the United States watching the weather for us 24 hours a day, seven days a week. So what kind of things could happen? This is just one idea. You know, the staffing is down. Meteorologists and technicians have either been fired or taken early retirement. So that means there are going to be fewer around during severe and or damaging weather. Maybe somebody has to be called in, they're tired, maybe they have trouble with some of the algorithms, reading the radars, and you have trouble getting going and getting the warnings out. This also means there could be less reliable data collection and distribution information technology. There's fewer staff to ensure data is being received from our multiple satellites, radars, thousands of ground sensors across the country, getting all this data into one place. So the meteorologists can actually produce products that help and save lives. And hardware breaks. These radars started going online when I was an undergraduate in the early 1990s. So it's getting old and it needs maintenance. Radar goes down, it might take longer to get serviced. If you don't have a technician on site, and the radar goes down, maybe it's down two hours in the old days. But maybe you've got to call somebody in, they got to order the part, and the radar is down for a couple of weeks, rather than a couple of hours or a couple of days. And when that happens, if you've got storms running through, especially this time of the year, severe weather season, there's a real risk of missing dangerous storms. I like to tell people, we're not going to miss hurricanes. They're big, right? But a lot of damaging storms, like tornadoes, severe thunderstorms, are very small with respect to the size of the entire atmosphere. So they have very definable radar signatures, and they can be missed if the critical hardware is down, or some people are more tired than maybe they ought to be. And maybe a warning doesn't go out, a tornado is missed, and there is damage or something worse. So there's a lot of things with the NOAA National Weather Service cuts that concern me as a person, as a meteorologist. This is just one of them. So we're all here to raise awareness about this, that these cuts to weather, climate, NOAA, National Science Foundation, do have repercussions down the line. They may not seem obvious right away. But another analogy I'll use is this, as we wrap up, you know, let's say it's a nice October afternoon, it's 68 degrees outside, and your power goes out. And maybe you're fine for a few hours, a few days. But by the time winter comes around, and you don't have any heat, you're going to wonder what happened. You know, if you don't service your car, you don't notice it for a day or two, you don't service your car for four or five months, you're going to notice problems. So these are the things I try to remind people that what's going on now may not be obvious, but it will have repercussions later on. With that, as they say, Andy, I will yield my time and happy to take any kind of questions now. Thanks, Sean, that was really interesting. I've got a bunch of questions. Let's see if we have any. Astra H wants to know where the crab cakes watch versus warnings meme is. That is really a good one. Google it if you haven't seen it, especially if you live in the Maryland area. I've seen the cupcake version of that too. I've seen a taco version of that too. Yeah. But we've just got to remind people that all the time. That's right. Andrew Williams says we've hit 1000 viewers. So let me just say thank you so much for everybody who 1000 100 to the 1.5 I guess he's about 1000. I presume it is. So so I have a couple I have a couple questions for you. First of all, this is more of a comment, you know, you're talking about contrails. And you know, people don't, most people don't know that, you know, a lot of the stratospheric research started in World War Two, because they wanted to figure out how to not leave a contrail. I mean, if you have a bomber flying to bomb Germany, and there's a contrail, it's like a big arrow for the anti aircraft to see and they say we don't want to leave contrails. And they did a lot of research in the stratosphere on that. And so this really goes back a long way. But I still run into I still have people contact me about, you know, these are you other spraying aluminum and, and I and you know, it's similar to the hurt to the people who contact you about like, you know, we control hurricanes, we're trying to punish people who didn't vote for Biden. I mean, what's how do you how do you respond to the people that, you know, that that reach out to you with this crazy conspiracy stuff like this? I've been inoculated from a lot of that since I've left the general media space. And now I'm working more as a private consultant. But I still see it. And I try to ask people to bring their evidence. And that normally they well, they start going down a rabbit hole. And I'm like, I've been doing this for a long time, I think I know. And this goes back to the beginning of the presentation, there, there's a real problem with the information infrastructure in the country, overall, or else we wouldn't have these problems. There's a there's a betrayal of trust. And we could go down a rabbit all about why that is. But if believe you me, if there was something going on up there, I'd let you know. But all you can do is, hey, can you give me some evidence? Can you give me some evidence? Where did you hear that? Where did you see that? You know, you don't have to go in and just tell somebody you're loopy, you're crazy, because that's antagonistic. But go, hmm, now, where did you see that? Now, why would you believe that? I've gotten emails, and I'll actually do that. I'll say, I'll say, you know, why do you think that? And then they'll say they have pages and pages of evidence. And you know, they sent me a satellite loop that showed the sky was clear. And all of a sudden, these clouds showed up, they said, you know, what's going on? It's like, I wrote back, and so what's going on is you're lifting air near the surface, there's a lot of water vapor into the upper atmosphere that forms clouds. And it's like, oh, no, you know, that can't be it. It's these harp radars. Oh, the harp thing. Yeah. The harp thing. I mean, it's just, you know, you just, I guess I've learned just not to engage. A lot of times, I just kind of back off, you know, and sometimes, sometimes people just want to fight. And I'm just, I'm not going to go through that, through that trouble. And it's kind of sad. But you have to, you have to manage it the best that you can. So another question I had for you was about the term polar vortex. Because, you know, in the stratosphere, we talk about, we talk about polar vortices, you know, for a very long time, because it's a structure in the stratosphere, the ozone hole forms within the polar vortex in the southern hemisphere. And then it's basically, it's made its way to sort of popular lingo. I mean, what do you, what's your thought about that? You know, working in the media for as long as I did, it's a good, catchy term. Vortex is a scary word. Polar is a scary word. You put them together, it gets eyeballs, it gets clicks. And it's funny, because, you know, we've known about the polar vortex since undergrads, since we were undergrads, right? To us, it's just another word, you know, and it's like, oh, oh, I hadn't thought about kind of framing it that way as big, scary thing. Because it just is what it is. So I try and again, stratospheric, tropospheric, there's different fundamentals going on here. But if I'm trying to leave something in somebody's head, that they can go tell their friends. That's pretty darn close. Because look, we don't want to go do a dissertation on the polar vortex for, for the general public, they're going to just, they're going to get lost. But if we can leave them with the essence of what this thing is, all right, and how it actually works, that they can share, I think we've done something. And you know, this is the challenge of all science communications, how much of a shortcut do you take to give some actionable good information to the public, so they don't go running off, thinking something that is more horrible than it is. So there's a lot one last question from the chat from G Willikers. Question, I work outdoors in rural tornado alley, these warnings are life or death. Now with our tornado range shifting and enlarging, how can we get more safety lessons out to these new areas? Well, the thing about tornadoes, and in my mind has shifted on this a lot since I was, since I was an undergrad, most tornadoes are not F5s and F4s. Most, right, we know this. So most tornadoes, if you were simply inside, away from windows, and the lowest floor, you're okay, most of the time, right? I think cell coverage is good in most locations to get warnings to your phone. But it's not everything, as I will echo what my colleagues say, have two ways to get a warning. There's still weather radio out there, I've got a weather radio right over here, in addition to my phone. So these two things in concept will normally protect you, the phone, a weather radio. I'm not a big fan of sirens at all. I think a lot of people like they're unreliable. I understand that they're used in large rural locations for good reason. But I'm also concerned that they are not utilized correctly, they're not tested sufficiently. And sometimes people hear sirens and they just don't, well, what does that actually, does that mean there's a tornado? You and I have a certain age, Andy, our missiles, are we going to, are we being attacked, you know, is it time to, that kind of stuff. So that would be how I approach that. Okay, Sean, well, thank you so much. Let's give Sean a round of virtual applause. Thank you, Eddie. Thanks to everybody. We have over a thousand people. So, applauding you, Sean. Thank you so much. Let's go move on to our next speaker. Notes out. So we're at the top of the hour, the half hour. Thank you for joining us at hour 49. So I think we're half an hour away from being halfway through here. So we're in the middle of hour 49 of the weather and climate live stream. 51 hours to go. And we're thrilled that you're here. You're here with us. I guess I can't re-emphasize that enough. I mean, thank you so much for supporting climate and weather science. My name is Andy Dessler. I'm a professor in the atmospheric science department at Texas A&M. And I'm the host of the next 30 minutes. We've seen a lot of great talk so far and, and Audrey's the next speaker in a minute. But before I do that, just a brief reminder that all of our speakers are appearing in their personal capacities and expressing their own views, which may not be those of other participants, their funding agencies, or their employer. Now we're all here for a shared purpose. Americans deserve good weather and climate forecasts, the kind that save lives during hurricanes, help farmers plan their crops and guide families, making weekend plans, exactly the stuff that Sean was just talking about. US scientists are world leaders in weather and climate prediction for decades. You know, two talks ago, we had Marie talking about AI advances in tropical cyclones. I mean, this is what we do. We improve forecasts. We improve our understanding of the atmosphere. And this scientific excellence exists only because of you taxpayers, the public. US federal funding for science is essential to maintaining America's leadership in weather and climate prediction. But funding cuts are affecting all weathers, all areas of the weather and climate enterprise. We're seeing weather stations short-staffed, just when extreme weather is becoming more frequent dangerous. We see climate research labs that have operated for decades, shrinking or shuttering entirely, taking with them irreplaceable expertise and decades of climate records. And we need your help to save our forecasts. The link at the bottom, you can click on that and it will give you information on contacting your representatives. And I'll just keep repeating this. People think contacting your representatives doesn't help. Trust me, they know most people aren't going to pick up the phone and call. So if you do, they know there's 100 people like you who are almost as mad, maybe not quite as mad. And so call, call, trust me, it just takes a couple minutes. The people are very polite because it's their job to be polite. They will listen to what you have to say and they will, they will note it down and they'll give it to their Congress person who may or may not act on it. But you know, you don't have anything to lose and enough people call, it will affect their vote. So please help us by doing that. So let me introduce our next speaker. Meghana Ranganathan is an assistant professor in geological sciences at the University of Chicago. She received her PhD from MIT's Department of Earth, Atmospheric and Planetary Science and a BA in math from Swarthmore. She held a NOAA Climate and Global Change post-doctoral fellowship at Georgia Tech before joining Chicago in 2024. Her research integrates material science, solid earth geophysics and applied mathematics to understand how glaciers and ice sheets respond to climate change, ultimately improving sea level rise projections. So let me just say thank you so much, Meghana, for giving this talk and I will turn the floor over to you. Meghana Ranganathan Thanks so much. Thanks to everybody for tuning in. I'm super excited to be able to ring in the 50th hour. But I am especially excited to be able to do that talking about glaciers and ice sheets in Antarctica. So as Andy mentioned, I'm a glaciologist, I study ice sheets and glaciers. Today, I'm going to be talking primarily about Antarctica and how Antarctica is changing and contributing to sea level. And there's a whole host of reasons to be doing this. We study glaciers and glaciers and glaciers. Meghana Ranganathan I think the primary conversation tends to be around sea level and there's been some really fantastic talks that have touched on the importance of sea level, the uncertainties that underlie our sea level projections and what effect that that could have on our coastal cities and on the globe. Meghana Ranganathan But there's a whole host of other reasons that we care a lot about glaciers and ice sheets. One example being the effect on ocean circulation as ice sheets lose ice, that ice tends to go into the ocean, that is freshwater, often a different temperature, different salinity than that ocean water. Meghana Ranganathan And that when it mixes in with the ocean can affect the global ocean circulation. Glaciers and ice sheets store about 70% of Earth's freshwater and provides actually the drinking water to about 2 billion people across the globe. Meghana Ranganathan So as our glaciers and ice sheets are receding that starts to endanger the drinking water and the livelihood of significant populations around the globe. Meghana Rangan And it's not just people, it's also ecosystems and habitats. The penguins, the polar bears, the seals all rely on our glaciers and ice sheets and their natural fluctuation to sustain their ecosystem. Meghana Rangan And finally, even though glaciers and ice sheets only live in certain regions of the globe, they do have a global effect. Meghana Rangan And so as that ice, it's also a global effect on our climate because they are white and they are reflective. And as sunlight comes in to our Earth, it tends to bounce off of any region that is ice covered. Meghana Rangan And so as that ice retreats, it often is replaced with darker land or darker ocean. And that allows our Earth to absorb a lot more heat and kind of operates as this feedback mechanism. Meghana Rangan Whereas more sunlight comes in, it tends to absorb even more heat because these glaciers do not exist where they used to exist. So there's a whole host of reasons why we care a lot about our glaciers and ice sheets. Meghana Rangan Today, I'm going to focus specifically on the role that Antarctica plays. The reason being that Antarctica is huge. Meghana Rangan And it's a region that we just don't understand as much as we should and has the potential to cause significant impacts. Meghana Rangan So just to give you a scale of Antarctica, this is what Antarctica looks like when you kind of turn a globe upside down and you stare at it rather than we tend to see Antarctica kind of splayed across the bottom of our maps. Meghana Rangan But this is kind of what it looks like in its full continent. It is large, it's about larger than the continental United States, and contains enormous amounts of ice. Meghana Rangan So at its center, the ice is about a mile and a half thick. And that means that this enormous amount of ice, if it was all to completely melt away, it would raise sea levels almost 200 feet. Meghana Rangan Just to give you a sense of the scale that I'm talking about when we talk about the ice sheet in Antarctica. Meghana Rangan We're not necessarily worried about the entire ice sheet in Antarctica completely melting away, but we are worried about large chunks of it, especially this region in West Antarctica. Meghana Rangan And I'm going to touch on that a little bit in a second. Meghana Rangan But the reason that we focus much on Antarctica is because there's a lot that we still don't understand. Meghana Rangan But we do know that it's changing really rapidly, and it helps to get a sense of just how much it's changed over the last two decades or so. Meghana Rangan So this is some data from NASA's GRACE satellite. GRACE is a gravity based satellite. Meghana Rangan So it measures as an ice sheet kind of loses mass or gains mass, it measures changes in the gravity field. Meghana Rangan And that's how we can get beautiful maps like this and beautiful images, figures like this that shows, for example, how much mass Antarctica is losing every year from this goes from 2002 all the way to 2023. Meghana Rangan And the summary being that Antarctica is losing more and more ice every single year, as you can see by this fact this line is decreasing in time, but it doesn't lose mass everywhere on the ice sheet. Meghana Rangan This map of Antarctica is showing where Antarctica is losing ice and in some regions where it's gaining ice. Meghana Rangan So all the red regions are where Antarctica is losing ice and all the blue regions are where it's gaining. Meghana Rangan The kind of takeaway is that even though there are regions it's gaining ice, those are massively outpaced by the regions where it's losing ice. Meghana Rangan And the region that we are most concerned about is this one right here. Meghana Rangan This is known as the Amundsen Sea Embayment. Meghana Rangan It houses a glacier known as Thwaites, which is often known in the news as the Doomsday Glacier. Meghana Rangan And this is part of the reason why, because it exists in this region that is losing so much ice. Meghana Rangan And there is serious concern that if Thwaites were to continue retreating and retreating, it could have a cascading effect that could affect large sections of the ice sheet, for example, this western portion right here. Meghana Rangan So there's a lot that we really want to understand about why certain regions of Antarctica are losing ice, why certain regions are gaining ice. Meghana Rangan And the underlying reason is complicated and more complicated actually than just it's melting. Meghana Rangan Antarctica is still in the southern pole, and it's actually still pretty cold. Meghana Rangan There isn't actually a lot of melt that happens. Meghana Rangan The way Antarctica really loses ice is because ice flows. Meghana Rangan And I think this was something that possibly one or two other talks have already touched upon. Meghana Rangan But ice is this viscous fluid. Meghana Rangan It's not the static block of ice that just kind of sits and melts. Meghana Rangan It actually moves. Meghana Rangan And for those of you that are fans of the Frozen franchise, you might recall this scene from Frozen 2 where one of the characters expresses, oh, glaciers are actually rivers of ice. Meghana Rangan And that's actually a really lovely and completely accurate, I think, representation of what ice is for kind of a more real Meghana Rangan It's a really holistic configuration. Meghana Rangan This is a glacier in Canada. Meghana Rangan And you can really see from this glacier how that ice is like spilling through in this valley through these two mountains and forming this nice kind of circular feature. Meghana Rangan Much like if you imagine taking a jar of honey and pouring it down exactly the same incline, honey might do exactly the same thing. Meghana Rangan So ice has this kind of fluid behavior. Meghana Rangan Here is kind of a video that actually showcases the fact that it really does flow like a river. Meghana Rangan This is Kingur Luswak ice stream, which is in the Greenland ice sheet. Meghana Rangan And you can see this ice slowly because it still is ice, but flowing much like a river does out to the ocean. Meghana Rangan And that's in large part how Antarctica and Greenland and other glaciers kind of eject ice is this ice flows from the center of the ice sheet where the ice is tallest out to the margins of the continent. Meghana Rangan And it does so I think really actually to frozen in these kind of river networks. Meghana Rangan I'm going to show this animation from NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory that really showcases exactly what the flow in Antarctica looks like. Meghana Rangan So I'm going to start this and then pause so that we can kind of take in what this looks like. Meghana Rangan So this is a map of the speed of ice in Antarctica. Meghana Rangan The blue and kind of purple regions are where the ice is flowing really fast. Meghana Rangan So kind of these regions here and all the regions out here that are colored brown and green are where the ice is not flowing very fast or almost not flowing at all. Meghana Rangan And what you can see are these features that look really similar to river networks. Meghana Rangan You've got these tributaries of ice that are all draining into these rivers that ultimately drain into these kind of basins that then export ice out into the ocean. Meghana Rangan And as this animation plays it's going to kind of fly over so you can see, especially some of these regions where ice the glacier is losing ice so this region right here, this glacier is the plates here. Meghana Rangan And the reason that those regions are losing ice is because those glaciers are accelerating, not just melting they're actually flowing faster than they used to even just 10 or 20 years ago. Meghana Rangan And ejecting more and more ice. Meghana Rangan So what we're really interested in understanding is why certain regions of Antarctica flow really fast and why other regions are flowing slower and what is driving this acceleration and flow speed. Meghana Rangan So the other cool thing that ice sheets do is not just flow, but also break. Meghana Rangan And this is I think what I find fascinating about ice is it is one of the very few natural materials on Earth that both behaves like a fluid and flows, but also behaves like a solid and breaks and does so at exactly the same conditions and often does so simultaneously. Meghana Rangan So we both want to understand how ice works as a fluid, but also as a solid and why it breaks. Meghana Rangan And this is a really nice kind of illustration of this big rift or this big fracture through the Larson Sea ice shelf. Meghana Rangan And when ice breaks, it typically does so once that ice hits the ocean. Meghana Rangan So ice flows out to the ocean, then once it hits the ocean, it starts to break up and form these icebergs. Meghana Rangan So this is a video from the Brunt ice shelf, which is right up here in Antarctica. Meghana Rangan You can see these fractures kind of form, propagate and ultimately create these icebergs that then float away. Meghana Rangan And these two processes are really how Antarctica and Greenland and plenty of other glaciers lose ice is due to the flow of ice out to the ocean and then the fracture of ice to create these icebergs. Meghana Rangan Of course, the Brunt ice shelf kind of breaks off these big chunks of ice, these huge icebergs every few years. Meghana Rangan There are plenty of glaciers that kind of break up in much more dynamic ways. Meghana Rangan So this is a video of Thwaites. Meghana Rangan So this is all of the ice here. Meghana Rangan What you can see is just kind of a mess of fractures. Meghana Rangan Tiny little icebergs that are constantly getting created on a really rapid basis. Meghana Rangan And again, this is part of the reason why we're so concerned about this glacier's weights is because it really feels like it's disintegrating. Meghana Rangan It looks like it's kind of holding on for dear life through some small regions of structural integrity. Meghana Rangan But there's serious concern that those small regions of structural integrity are likely to disintegrate in the coming years. Meghana Rangan And we really want to understand how likely that is when that's likely to happen. Meghana Rangan So what that means is as a glaciologist, I'm really interested in these kind of fundamental physics questions of how does ice flow and how does ice break. Meghana Rangan And the answer to that really gets back to the question, what is glacier ice? Meghana Rangan Because glacier ice is actually structurally different than the ice that you would find in your freezer. Meghana Rangan The ice in your freezer is frozen water. Meghana Rangan Glacier ice is actually compacted snow, which produces kind of a structurally different material. Meghana Rangan This is a nice kind of picture of a bunch of layers of snow on top of each other. Meghana Rangan What happens is as snow falls, it starts to compact just because of the weight of the snow that's falling on top of it. Meghana Rangan And over time, it compacts and compacts, it squeezes out air and ultimately forms ice. Meghana Rangan And so if you were to take a core of an ice sheet, what it would look like is those first few layers would be snow. Meghana Rangan The kind of secondary layers would be this intermediate material called fern, which is kind of a halfway between snow and ice. Meghana Rangan And then those kinds of deeper layers would be pure what we call glacier ice, where so much air has been squeezed out by compaction that it's now formed ice. Meghana Rangan And, you know, there's still some ice that can retain some of those bubbles. Meghana Rangan This is a picture that I took in from the Greenland ice sheet. Meghana Rangan This ice is about 30,000 years old, and you can see that it's still full of air bubbles. Meghana Rangan It hasn't formed deep enough to really squeeze out a lot of that air. Meghana Rangan And this is how people get records of really, really old air from millions of years ago is by going into these ice cores, taking these samples of air trapped in these air bubbles and sampling them for CO2 and to try to understand what old atmospheres used to look like. Meghana Rangan But from my perspective as a glaciologist, I'm really interested in these very deep layers where the ice is squeezed out a lot of air and is really just kind of almost pure ice. Meghana Rangan And what I like to do is think about it from a really small scale perspective when it is glacier ice has been formed. Meghana Rangan Really, what does it look like? And to do that, we can take glacier ice and put it under a microscope, in which case it looks something like this. Meghana Rangan This is an ice crystal, a single ice crystal. You can see the boundary by these kind of shadowy lines. Meghana Rangan And in this picture, there's actually many ice crystals. There's more over here. There's another one here. Meghana Rangan And they're all kind of bounded together. These ice crystals are about a millimeter in size. Meghana Rangan And what is really kind of fascinating when you start to look at glacier ice from these scales, so from these really kind of small scales of zooming into the individual crystals, is you start to see some surprising comparisons between glacier ice and other materials. Meghana Rangan So one example is, if you were to do exactly the same thing to steel, you were to take a bit of steel and put it in a microscope and really zoom into what that steel looks like. Meghana Rangan It looks like this, where you've got a bunch of steel crystals that are all bounded, bonded together in this kind of what we call a polycrystalline structure. Meghana Rangan And what's cool is it looks exactly like the glacier ice of the scale. Meghana Rangan They're all crystals that are bonded together and actually physically almost exactly the same ways. Meghana Rangan There's different chemistry within the material, but the physics operate really, really similarly. Meghana Rangan And what I think is really fabulous about this is we know a lot about steel. Meghana Rangan Structural engineers, mechanical engineers have spent decades trying to deeply understand what causes steel to break, why steel deforms and under what conditions. Meghana Rangan Because we build our buildings out of steel. Meghana Rangan We build our bridges. Meghana Rangan We really want to know when steel breaks and how it breaks. Meghana Rangan And we can actually use all of that insight that people have gotten from steel and aluminum and nickel to understand how glacier ice breaks in our ice sheets. Meghana Rangan Just to really drive this kind of comparison home. Meghana Rangan If you were to look at, for example, a fracture through a bit of steel, just by eye, it does look really similar to a big fracture through an ice sheet. Meghana Rangan And a lot of what I'm really interested in is trying to learn a lot of these insights about what causes steel to break in this way and apply that to understand how our ice sheets are going to be breaking. Meghana Rangan And these comparisons exist even just outside of metals. Meghana Rangan If you were to look at a sample of rock, it has exactly those kind of similar features. Meghana Rangan So this is putting a sample of rock through a microscope. Meghana Rangan You can see all of those individual rock crystals that are all bonded together in very similar ways that the glacier ice works. Meghana Rangan Of course, these crystals are of different sizes and slightly different shapes, but the physics are all very similar. Meghana Rangan And so what we can do is learn a lot about the insights that we've gotten from rock, for example, lava flow, and use that to understand how glacier flows. Meghana Rangan So if you were to look at lava, which is molten rock, how lava flows, those features, those viscous kind of flow features are very similar to what we find in ice. Meghana Rangan And so we can borrow a lot of what our colleagues in the rock world have learned to understand glacier ice. Meghana Rangan And so ultimately what that means that we can do is kind of take some of these microphysics insights that we can learn from other fields like metallurgy and material science, Meghana Rangan And so we can use that to try to understand how and why our glaciers and ice sheets are flowing faster and are breaking from these kind of physical principles. Meghana Rangan And so practically the way that we do that is by kind of borrowing some of these ideas from other fields and trying to see kind of in a lab and in field settings how well that applies to ice. Meghana Rangan And so the way we do that is by kind of going into the field gathering samples so these are ice cores that people can gather and actually visualizing them under microscopes to understand different regions of the ice sheet how do the crystal structures look different. Meghana Rangan Or are there people that actually have a lab setup or they have a big squishing device and you can make synthetic glacier ice put it in a big squishing device and actually squish ice in the lab and see what happens. Meghana Rangan And so we can try to see how much it mimics these other materials and we can use all those insights to, for example, build models of microphysics of ice. Meghana Rangan So this is an example of actually an output from a model trying to represent how those crystals are changing with temperature and different kinds of pressures. Meghana Rangan And so we can use that we can use as insights to better build these big models of large scale ice flow. Meghana Rangan So this is an example of a model trying to build more robust and better ice sheet models that can project what's going to happen to Antarctica out to hundreds of years in the future. Meghana Rangan And so ultimately that's kind of the goal of this field is to build these models that can tell us how Antarctica is going to change in time. Meghana Rangan So this is one example from a paper from two years ago that was trying to do exactly this set up a big simulation of Antarctica and step it forward in time and see how Antarctica is going to lose ice. Meghana Rangan And so we can see how it's going to lose ice or how it's going to change on the timescale of about 300 years. Meghana Rangan And so we can see from 2015 stepping forward to about 2200 Antarctica losing large chunks of ice out to 2300 losing ice that's equivalent to about two meters or about six feet of sea level rise. Meghana Rangan And so that's just from Antarctica alone, even putting aside contributions from Greenland and other glaciers and ocean expansion, six feet just from one location. Meghana Rangan And so that's just from one location is an enormous amount of sea level. Meghana Rangan And so that's just from one location is an enormous amount of sea level. Meghana Rangan And so a big part of our field is really trying to hone in on these numbers, make them really certain and really produce better projections for what we're likely to see in the coming decades and centuries. Meghana Rangan And so there's been a huge number of advances in the field of glaciology that has allowed us to get to this point. Meghana Rangan Glaciology kind of in comparison to especially a lot of the climate sciences is a pretty young field and has made a lot of advances very quickly. Meghana Rangan And so that's really due to I think two opportunities that we've had. Meghana Rangan The first is the massive advent of satellite data. Meghana Rangan So having Earth observing satellites pointed at our polls has really almost created a revolution in our understanding of glaciers and ice sheets. Meghana Rangan And so you can see these little patches of data, but they were really scattered and very sparse. Meghana Rangan Our satellites, you know, were not often pointed at our polls, and we just didn't have as much of the data. Meghana Rangan Only like less than 10 years later, more satellite data, more funding for these observed for these kind of Earth observing satellites and scientists were able to produce a complete map of surface velocity of Antarctica. Meghana Rangan And so we're going to see the same map that I showed you in that animation earlier. Meghana Rangan And so we're going to see here are the regions where Antarctica is losing mass. Meghana Rangan Here is the regions where, you know, the glaciers are flowing fast and not flowing fast. Meghana Rangan And so we're going to see how we wanted to understand where for where we needed to look in Antarctica to understand how it's changing. Meghana Rangan And so we're going to see how we wanted to see how we wanted to see how the glacier is changing. Meghana Rangan And so we're going to see how the glacier is changing in time, which is not something we could have done even 10 or 20 years ago. Meghana Rangan But we can look at, for example, this glacier here and say from 1996 to 2016, this glacier has doubled in speed and satellite data, especially from NASA, has really allowed us to do this. Meghana Rangan The second big kind of piece of kind of opportunity that we've gotten is the ability to just go to these locations and actually dig up samples and do field work in remote locations like Antarctica. Meghana Rangan So this is a picture of me on the weights glacier in Antarctica, and we're able to do this because NSF maintains these big stations in Antarctica. Meghana Rangan The United States has three Antarctic stations, the biggest one being McMurdo Station. At the height of its season, McMurdo houses about 1000 people, scientists and people who are there to kind of support the science and keep the station running. Meghana Rangan And this allows us to go dig up samples, understand even those micro physics questions that I was talking about earlier. We're able to do that because we can actually go to these locations. Meghana Rangan The difficulty about these stations is that they need to be maintained year round. There are people at all of our stations continuously throughout the year maintaining the station, because the minute you don't have people maintaining it, the station freezes over, it gets buried by snow, and it's really hard to bring that station back. Meghana Rangan So kind of continuous maintenance through NSF United States Antarctic Program has been kind of fundamental in our ability to understand these regions. Meghana Rangan And all of that is really in service of wanting to understand how glaciers and ice sheets are going to change and what that means for the Earth system and for societies. Meghana Rangan And with that, I'm going to say thank you very much. And I'm happy to take questions. Meghana Rangan Well, thank you for that really interesting, excellent talk. Meghana Rangan There are a lot of questions, but we have time for probably a few of them. Meghana Rangan I'm going to start off with Henry Drake. This is really a good question. I had exactly the same question, which is, look, so you showed that plot of the Grace time series. It's going down. Meghana Rangan And then in 2020, it pops up and stays. And I remember, you know, in the news, you know, climate skeptics have been saying, oh, Antarctica is not losing ice. Do you comment on that? Like why it happened and what the implications are? Meghana Rangan Yeah, there's some complexities with the competing processes of what happens to all of the ice as it gets ejected, and then the ice being added to the continent. Meghana Rangan And I think what's happening is because of changes to the atmosphere, Antarctica may be losing ice, but it's also experiencing a lot more precipitation and snowfall, especially in the eastern part of Antarctica. Meghana Rangan And that some people argue could be kind of on a short term, potentially balancing out some of the mass loss, because as you're getting more snowfall, you're going to get more ice being added to the continent. Meghana Rangan I think this is something that is not, it's not clear if that's going to be a long term trend, or if that's something that is just a blip for three years. Three years is a relatively short period of time. So it's hard to know if that is an anomaly or something that we're likely to see kind of consistently through the next few decades. Meghana Rangan But what we do know is that the as the snowfall may be increasing, our ocean temperatures are warming really significantly on kind of the other side of the continent. And that is driving significant amounts of mass loss. So we're really trying to understand this kind of competing processes of snowfall and ocean heating and which is going to kind of outpace in the coming decades. Meghana Rangan Yeah, so I mean, just to follow up on that and confirm to you said this, but confirm this. So, you know, most of the ice loss in Antarctica is not coming because the air is warm, and it's melting. Meghana Rangan Right. Meghana Rangan It's coming because the water is warm, the oceans around there are warm, and it's causing the it's causing it's basically breaking off these, these, you know, these ice shelves that causes the flow to go faster. Is that what you say is correct? Meghana Rangan That's exactly right. People say Greenland melts from the top because the Arctic is pretty warm, but Antarctica melts from the bottom because Antarctica is cold, but the oceans are warm. And so it was really what's happening is the ocean warming kind of eroding the underside of glaciers in Antarctica. Meghana Rangan So Sarah Filippini asks, is there a reason why the region right uphill from Thwaites, the Tuesday glacier is gaining ice? Is there some kind of compensating mechanism? Meghana Rangan So there's a glacier right there that's actually been slowly and that's been slowing down over the last few decades. We think it's in the process of stagnating. So these glaciers can actually turn on and off over long timescales like geologic timescales. Meghana Rangan So we've seen it happen before in the geologic record. And there's evidence that one of those glaciers in that uphill region is actually stagnating and possibly turning off. And that might be that's kind of causing some less mass loss than is typical in that one region. Meghana Rangan So Claire Rubelke asks, when you say ice flows fast, what's the approximate speed? And I'll add to that, you know, why is it flowing faster in some places than other places? Meghana Rangan Yeah, those are both great questions. So fast means different in different places. So for Antarctica, the fastest glacier moves at about 4000 meters per year. Meghana Rangan So glaciers in Greenland are moving way faster on average than the glaciers in Antarctica. And to answer the kind of second question about why some move faster than others. Meghana Rangan Some of it is just interaction with the ocean. Some places the ocean is warmer than others and that's driving some of the flow. Meghana Rangan Some places it's because of the actual bedrock underneath the ice sheet. That bedrock is tilted more and so allowing kind of gravity to drive some of that flow faster. Mark Levin So 14,000 meters per year. I can run faster than that. So that the good news is attacking you, you can outrun it. Meghana Rangan For the most part. Mark Levin So a message from the directors backstage, you said that after discussion of the ocean, you can run faster faster than that. Mark Levin So a discussion amongst themselves. We're in our 48. So Meghana Rangan Oh, bummer. Mark Levin So I thought we hit 50. Basically, actually, right now I'm over time. This is so interesting. I could have I could keep asking you questions all day. So I am done. So thank you very much, Meghana. Meghana Rangan Thanks, everyone. Meghana Rangan Excellent talk. I want to thank the audience for him with me for the last two hours. You know, tell your friends. Thank you so much for your support. Mark Levin So I will. I'll be I'll be watching, but I'm signing off. So thanks a lot. Mark Levin Oh, and Ricky Rude is back. Mark Levin I'm back, man. Mark Levin This is the toss. Mark Levin This is the toss. Mark Levin I think that's what TV people call this. Mark Levin And I'm glad to know what hour it is that it just changed to 49 up in the top right of the screen. Mark Levin That's right. Exactly. Exactly. So I am tossing it to you, Ricky. Mark Levin Thank you. Thank you. So welcome to something around hour 50, hour 49. Mark Levin In the middle of the weather and climate live stream. We're about halfway done. Mark Levin I'm Ricky Rude, Professor Emeritus at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor. Mark Levin And I also spent 20 years at NASA and I'm your host for this segment. Mark Levin We've seen many engagement engaging and insightful talks so far, and this will continue to be the case for the rest of the live stream. Mark Levin In fact, I found this a lot of fun and better than an AGU meeting. Mark Levin All of our speakers are appearing in their personal capacities and expressing their own views, which may not be those of other participants. Mark Levin However, we are all here with a purpose. Mark Levin Americans need excellent weather and climate forecasts. Mark Levin They're essential for success in the modern society. Mark Levin U.S. scientists have been world leaders in weather and climate forecasting. Mark Levin We have built leading capacity in observing networks, advanced theoretical foundations, and provided state-of-the-art modeling capabilities. Mark Levin Our models provide guidance that protect life and property and allow us to plan and act on time spans from hours to decades. Mark Levin With this knowledge, we can anticipate risks and be more resilient in the face of weather and climate challenges. Mark Levin This excellence is because of investment by the public, and U.S. federal funding of science has been essential for our economy and security. Mark Levin But now, funding cuts affecting all areas of weather and climate scientists, and we need awareness of the benefits of forecasts to help us save our forecasts. Mark Levin We need to be present. Mark Levin We need to be speaking. Mark Levin We need to be present. Mark Levin We need to be speaking. Mark Levin We encourage you to call your representatives and governors. Mark Levin We need to maintain a presence and a constant vigilance of the importance of environmental predictions. Mark Levin There is information on the bottom of the screen that will help you make these contacts. Mark Levin And now, I'll be introducing the upcoming speaker. Mark Levin So our speaker is Mike Wallace, who I have not seen for a while. Mark Levin Mike is a professor emeritus at the University of Washington. Mark Levin I am a professor emeritus, and I think what emeritus is is the Latin word for old and male. Mark Levin Mike is one of the most distinguished professors in our field, and today he's going to be talking about wildfires. Mark Levin It's yours, Mike. Mark Levin You're on mute. Mark Levin We hear you now. Mark Levin You do. Mark Levin Yes. Mark Levin Okay. Mark Levin Okay, and I have to get on slideshow here. Mark Levin Okay. Mark Levin Can you let me know when you can see this? Mark Levin It takes a second to come up. Mark Levin Are you seeing that? Mark Levin I'm not seeing it yet, Mike. Mark Levin I want... Mark Levin And our producer says that he cannot either. Mark Levin Give it. Mark Levin The little wheel on my computer is spinning. Mark Levin I tried to practice this this morning. Mark Levin Ah, is that it now? Mark Levin We still do not see it. Mark Levin It, everything looks... Mark Levin I don't know what I can do here except... Mark Levin It says, if you can you email it to Michael Steven Diamond at gmail.com. Mark Levin It's... Mark Levin It's... Mark Levin I probably can, but that's going to take... Mark Levin That's going to take time. Mark Levin Perhaps it may be better to... Mark Levin To talk through this without slides. Mark Levin As much as I would like to do it. Mark Levin You think that would be okay? Mark Levin You're a great public speaker, Mike Wallace. Mark Levin Well, I was. Mark Levin I'll do my best. Mark Levin At any rate, I wanted to start by saying that I had a picture of the Gis building to show, which I'm sure you've seen already. Mark Levin And just to point out that Gis moved into that building in 1961 and I entered graduate school a year later. Mark Levin So that's been a part of my life through my whole career. Mark Levin And I've had the pleasure of good friendships and working relationships with people there throughout the years as well, and really admire the work that has gone on there. Mark Levin So I got interested in wildfires just because it seemed to me just at a gut emotional level, seeing the amount of smoke that's in the air here in the Western United States now in the last decade or two has been completely off the scale in terms of what I remember in terms of my younger years, say pre the year. Mark Levin So when I read about there being more forest fires in the boreal forests and then also over the forests of the Western United States, I got quite concerned. Mark Levin And I was initially rather skeptical as to whether this could be a climate effect because I, the temperatures have only risen by a relatively small amount. Mark Levin We think of forest fires during heat waves, but the overall rise in temperature has been modest by those standards. Mark Levin And it was hard for me to see how a small incremental change in temperature could have such a big effect on fires. Mark Levin And so I went into this with the idea that this is probably something else at work. Mark Levin And my pet theory at that point was that it was carbon fertilization that today's trees in the boreal forests are growing up in an environment with about twice as much, well, 50% more carbon dioxide than they experienced when they were seedlings. And so that perhaps they were just producing too much in the way of needles, and that then was providing additional fuel without the infrastructure and the deeper roots to support it, and that would make them more vulnerable. A few people thought that was an interesting idea, but overall, most of the people I talked to said, oh, no, it's got to be climate. And so I've been working with a postdoc here who is a visiting scholar from China, Changpeng Ng, who has graciously done hours and hours' worth of different analyses to try to sort this out. And I guess just really in the last month or two, I've come to the conclusion that I was totally wrong, that this is climate, and it is pretty much what people have been saying. And the key climatic variable here is what's called the vapor pressure deficit, VPD. And it is a measure of the ability of the air to take up moisture from the trees. That's also a de facto measure of the stress on the trees due to aridity, heat, and dryness. And the VPD is directly, well, it is directly proportional to the saturation vapor pressure, which increases at a rate of 7% per degree Celsius temperature rise. And the deficit in the word vapor pressure deficit is from the fact that the air isn't saturated. And so VPD is proportional to 1 minus the relative humidity. So a lower relative humidity means a higher VPD. Well, I was going to show you a pair of slides, just toggle back and forth, between the daily emissions of fire-related carbon emissions, which is something NASA has been monitoring back since about the turn of the millennium. And NASA has this global fire emissions database, and they have maps of that every day. And so if you take the maps of fire emissions on the days when the VPD is above normal and compare them to the days when it's below normal, it's a factor of 10 difference. And it makes a striking slide. You can see the outlines of the fire-prone areas in both, but there's just 10 times as much when the VPD is above normal. And that's not huge departures from normal. It just has to be  it looks like the ecosystem is very finely tuned to the seasonally varying normal. And even as early as now in the season, if the VPD gets above normal for a while, the fires are  the forests are very vulnerable. And we're seeing this in Canada this week. I went online this morning, and I looked at the temperatures, and it is warm. It's probably warmer than normal, a few degrees there. But in the area of the fires, it's  Hi, Mike. One second, one second. My name is Andrew. I'm one of the backstage people. Do you want us to spend just like one minute trying to get your slides up? Would you be  I'll try them again. Yeah, from here. Sure. Yeah. Do you want to  do you want to maybe  do you have a  could you phone us really quickly? Let me just  Okay. I've done a share, the red button. I pushed that. Let's see. Let's see. Yeah, Ricky, we're just going to get  we're just going to get Mike some support backstage for a minute. Let's see. give us more attarently. Thank you very much. And I'll follow us. dny Hey, Ricky. Sorry, we're still backstage. We're going to get those slides up and running. They're running really quickly. Do you have an algorithm that is likely to work? Yes, I think we're going to get that. I think we're going to manage to get that going as soon as possible. Thank you for all of your help hosting. I think we've had, to be fair, it's been pretty amazing. We haven't had that many technical issues in the stream so far. Yeah. It's been, it's bound to happen at some point, but I think we've been pretty lucky. And thank you, Ricky, for doing so much of the, so much hosting. You're welcome. It's actually been sort of fun. Are you in Boulder? I live in Boulder, yes. Nice. Nice. Yes. So how many, you talked a little bit about this in your, in your talk the other day, but how long have you been, you're at NCAR, right? Are you? I just have an office at NCAR because they are gracious and kind. I don't know. But I, I mean, most of the time I was a professor at Michigan. I actually was a resident of Colorado for family reasons. So. And did you say Mike was your, Mike was your boss at one point? Mike Wallace? Mike Wallace? Mike Wallace? No. No. Oh. He's, he's, he's, we, we had sort of a common graduate student a long time ago. So. Oh, I see. I see. But he's, would have been more of a mentor to me. Mike Wallace. We're just gonna, I think we will try, get Mike up in a minute. And the. What do you want to do schedule wise once we do this? Mike Wallace. So I think we can, let me just have one second to look at this. I think we can maybe cut the, the Q and A a little bit. Okay. And that will make up, that will make up time. And also the, the sign off, the, the sign, the call sign perhaps. Yeah. So what are you, what do you got? Oh, Andrew show us the cat. Oh, all right. We're going on a vacation. Everyone, everyone come with me. We're going to go. We're going to go see Cleo. This is going to be. We have a cat named Cleo. Yeah. So this is my, this is my coauthor. This is my favorite, my favorite little coauthor. Name is Cleo. Hey, you gonna say hi. You can say hi to a thousand and 1,134 people. You guys are interrupting her. She's trying to watch birds right now. Right now. Yeah. Um, but do you want me to, it seems unfair to stop this at the bottom of the hour? Yeah. Um, we'll work, we'll work that out in the private chat, I think. Okay. Yeah. Uh, Cleo, how does climate affect bird watching? I don't, there is some literature. I don't know if, if anyone else knows about this. There is some literature about climate change affecting migration patterns. So I don't know if Cleo's maybe Cleo is going to get better, better, better bird coverage soon. I don't know. Um, we're trying to call it. We're trying to call Mike right now, just to give him some, just to let everyone know. We're trying to call Mike, um, on his phone, just to give him some technical support. Um, I know everyone in the chat wants to see, wants to see these slides. So. Um, smart cat says to call your representatives. Yeah. Cleo is, Cleo is an advocate for weather and climate science in the U S um, and strongly opposes the cuts. I think that is, I speak, she doesn't, she doesn't, you know, she doesn't speak often, but when she does, she speaks out against the cuts. That's clear. Yeah. So we live on a small farm and I think that all of our animals would, would, um, take that position. Yeah. A hundred percent. Um, yeah. What, what, so what, what, what animals do you have on your farm, Ricky? Um, so I'm taking it at this point, you and I are the show, aren't we? I think we're the show for a little bit. I think that's okay. We can, we can work, we can read, we can rework the schedule. Okay. We have a, a small farm that grows goats, uh, that are for, for fleas, for fiber. And they're called Pai Gore goats. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. And, um, we just had five new babies. Oh. They were all, they were all boys quite amazingly. And each one of them is a different color fiber. And it's a little farm that, um, we do a whole lot of work to sequester some carbon. We do, we, we focus more on soil improvement than we do on carbon mitigation with the idea that something we can do about, do something about, but that the, but it will have an effect. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. And, and from a carbon standpoint, we find the most difficult thing is to get away from plastic. Um, because. Where, where, where's the biggest source of plastic on a farm? I don't really know about this. Well, so there, there are two sources of plastic. Um, one, a lot of organic farming, uh, requires, you relies on plastic shields of some sort of another. Um, you know, if you, or they rely on plastic, um, ground accelerants. So if you go look at organic farms, you'll often see long rows of black plastic on the ground, or you'll see large rows of white fabric plastic. Mm-hmm. Um, so, and then the irrigation is often plastic. And Mike is back. Mike is back. Uh, Mike, I think. Yes. One second. So I think someone's come on to say something. Mike. Mike, do you have access to your phone? Mm-hmm. Uh, I do. I do. Yes. Okay. Can you pick up? Uh, we're trying to call you to help with the slides. Oh, sure. Thanks. Sorry, y'all. No worries. No worries. No worries. Lots of behind the scenes stuff happening. So, so, but this, you know, brings to the, to the front that plastic is another fossil fuel. Um, problem, you know, without regard to plastic waste. Um, the, the other thing is just massive amounts of materials just come in plastic. Mm-hmm. So. Do you use, is it fertilizer as well? There's a lot of like fossil, like fossil fuels go into fertilizer. Is that right? If you're using organic fertilizers, I think it's a lot less. Um, there's a lot of that is, is either derived from fish, um, in some way or another, or it's derived, you know, from compost in one way or another. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. It's not using the same processes that are used, um, for, um, for, I guess, primarily nitrogen. Mm-hmm. Um, in, in, um, commercial scale fertilizer. Of course, there's potash mining. Mm-hmm. Um, and there's phosphate mining, but, but again, the organic fertilizers, I think are mostly products of compost. Um, the problem is, you know, you really can't scale that to global food production. Um. Yeah, exactly, exactly. So. It was when I, you may, I mean, you maybe can't hear it from my accent, but I grew, I actually grew up in, in Georgia, right, you know, above Florida and we. I know we're Georgia. Yeah. Well, sometimes because people hear me sounding a little bit European, they think I, Georgia, the country, not the state. Well, my sister was ambassador to that one. Oh, to the country of Georgia? Yeah. No way. Okay. Um, but we grew up, I grew up on a farm and yeah, we was, you got to see a little bit of it. We were very small scale. So. Where in Georgia? Right. By what I, um, right, right, right up in the corner by Alabama and Tennessee. We have family and the other. Or Muscle Shoals or somewhere up in there in Alabama. So, so. No, that's nice. No, I'm from North Carolina. So I too, in Southern. Mm-hmm. So. Yeah. And, and our garden might've been larger than our farm. Oh, wow. Okay. That's nice. In North Carolina. Is that when the, uh, you know, being on a, being on a farm, being outside, is that part of the, you know, did that, did that play into you wanting to go into, you know, weather and climate science or was that at least tangential? You know, it's, it's interesting. Um, in terms of thinking about careers, it was a geography course that got me interested. Mm-hmm. And then I was, you know, I came from a family of physicists and, and, um. I'm sorry to hear that. Yeah. No. It's a scar. Um, but, uh, I like the first physics course I really liked was fluid dynamics. And I don't know why, but then I went to meteorology and, and, and my advisors in physics told me I was wasting my life. Oh no. Yeah. Oh no. And all those problems had been solved in the late 1800s. So. Well, we're still finding a lot more problems, right? Yeah. If you dig around, you find a lot of problems. Yeah. So, but then I, you know, ended up at NASA and things like that for a long time doing fluid dynamics. Maybe, I don't know if, um, Nick, are you, are you, if, if we brought you on, would you be, would you want to just start your talk a little bit early? Would that be okay? Yeah. I think that what we should do is move to the next talk and maybe try to reschedule Mike on the phone. I think that sounds great. At this point. All right. Let's, um, let's bring, let's bring Nick on. Hey, Nick. Hey. The West coast is there. I, I also grew up not on a farm exactly, but in a farming town and my family were farmers. So. And where? Uh, Southeastern Washington. Okay. Southeastern Washington. So I drove through there not so long ago. Yeah. The Palouse. Yeah. Yeah. In fact, our goats just came from Oregon. I drove out to Oregon to pick up the goats. Oh really? Yes. There are not, there are not many fiber goats in the world. Anyway, are you ready? About interrupting our regularly scheduled farming program. We're going to have some science now. Feet, feeder pig prices in Siler city. Siler city. And it's in North Carolina. Yeah. That's actually, that's where my long ago ancestors. So it's in Chatham County. In like 1740. Yeah. Okay. Well, I, I think given the moment here that we will just introduce you. Uh, this is Nick Siler, who is at Oregon State University in Corvallis. And he is going to pick up the ball here and, and go with how climate change affect precipitation patterns in the Western U.S. Sounds good. Thanks Ricky. Um, I'm sad we didn't get to hear from Mike. Um, but that's okay. Um, I'll pick it up. Um, so yeah, I'm, uh, an associate professor at Oregon State. Um, I'm also the associate state climate professor. Um, I'm also the associate state climatologist for the state of Oregon. Um, much of my research focuses on sort of how precipitation patterns will change in the future and are changing, um, in response to, to climate change. Um, and a lot of that actually focuses on mountainous regions like the Western U.S. So, um, that's what I'll be presenting on today. Much of this work, um, was performed by, um, graduate students in my group, Matthew Kazuda, um, most of all. Um, but I also put this, this photo up here, which is, uh, taken from a NASA satellite. Um, I'm not gonna tell you where this is. Um, you can enter in the chat, perhaps your guesses. Um, but it is somewhere within the United States. So we'll revisit that, um, at the end of the presentation. Um, so most of you probably know that mountains have a strong influence on precipitation patterns. Um, you experience that directly if you drive across a mountain range, like the Cascades or the Sierras. Um, if you're driving from west to east across the Cascades, say driving east from Seattle, for example, you travel through, you know, rainforest, mountainous peaks, and then end up, um, essentially in the desert on the eastern side. Um, and these precipitation patterns are also captured to some degree within the models that we use to simulate climate. Um, but they're not captured very well by the global climate models. Um, over on the left here, we have an example of one of these global climate model simulations or GCM simulations that has roughly a hundred kilometer grid spacing. Um, you can see, you know, it captures some of the increase in precipitation over the Himalaya, but doesn't really capture much of the precipitation gradients that we see in places like the western U.S. because it just doesn't resolve the mountains very well. Um, on the right though, we have what's called a regional climate model. Um, and this is a regional climate model simulation or an RCM simulation. And this one is run with, with fine grid spacing, six kilometer grid spacing, which really captures most of the sort of ridge to valley variations of the terrain in the western U.S. And as a result of that, you can see it does a much better job capturing these precipitation gradients. Um, and in particular, I just want to highlight these dry regions on the eastern side of the Cascades, the Sierras, and the Rockies also, these are regions, um, that are, are dry because the mountains are essentially sort of wringing all of that moisture out on the western side. So we call that a rain shadow. It's an example of the, the rain shadow effect. Um, what's perhaps less well understood is that, is that mountains can also have a strong influence on how precipitation changes in the future. Um, and this is something that we really only see in the entire resolution regional simulations. If we look here on the left, uh, panel again, we have, uh, GCM simulation showing the change in precipitation. We really see almost uniform patterns of precipitation change, at least in places like the western U.S. Um, but if we look at previous RCM simulations from studies that have been published over the last 10 years, we see a lot more spatial variability. And one of the kind of signatures, excuse me, that's common across, um, a lot of these simulations is the larger increases in precipitation that we often see just on these eastern sides that in the, in the current climate are, are quite dry. Um, so this is something that, this sort of represents a decrease in that precipitation gradient across the mountains. Um, and some people have called that, um, a sort of weakening of the rain shadow effect. So this is something that my group has been, um, investigating and, and trying to understand. So you're kind of three points that I'll hit on today. Um, one is that it's really not just rain shadow weakening. It's actually sort of a more general decrease in, in how mountains influence precipitation in the future. We think we have a good idea of why this happens. I'll do my best to sort of explain that. Um, and it also has implications for something called precipitation flashiness. Um, and so I'll touch on sort of all three of these, um, now and I'll maybe, um, Ricky, do you want me to kind of string this out to, to 1055, just so that we. Or get back on track or. I think you're, you're muted, but that's okay. I'll, I won't, I won't go too long. Um, okay. So. Um, I, I think making it to 1050. We'll probably have plenty of questions. Okay. I'll, I'll see what I can do. Okay. Um, okay. So, um, we're going to, um, mainly be looking at simulations that are run in something called pseudo global warming. Um, so this is sort of a, a way of simulating global warming at these regional scales. And it's asking this question. If historical storms repeated in a warmer climate, how would their climate change? And we're really focusing on how would their precipitation change? So to run this sort of a simulation, you first have to run a simulation of the historical climate. And we're really, uh, simulating the observed weather, um, over a 30 year period. Um, and then we run the same simulation of the exact same weather events, but we're just adding an increase in temperature and changes in winds that are consistent with what these global GCM simulations are telling us. And so we're sort of comparing some future climate period, 2040 to 2070 roughly with this historical climate period. And we do this for five different GCM. So we get this sort of spread of different possibilities. Um, so, um, this is the result, uh, in the middle panel showing the change in precipitation from these simulations relative to the historical simulation on the left. Um, and you can see it, it's not just an amplification of the historical pattern. You might just assume it was sort of going to get wetter everywhere, right? That's what the GCM simulation is telling us. It's really, um, it's really not that. In fact, we see, you know, places where precipitation decreases along the crest of the cascades. You see relatively large increases, you know, in, in some of these lower elevation places. So we can get a better sense of this spatial pattern, um, by showing what we call the precipitation sensitivity. So this is just the percentage change in precipitation per degree of warming. Um, and that percentage change maybe averages 5%, but you can see, you know, it's much larger in these rain shadowed regions on the eastern side of mountains. Um, and it's quite a bit smaller than that on the western slopes of the Cascades, the Sierras, and also, you know, many of the high elevation regions of the Rockies. So, you know, this raises the question, this is consistent largely with, with what we see, you know, in what we've seen in these previous studies, but you know, what explains this pattern? So that's what we're going to try to, um, to accomplish here. Um, so to explain this, I want to propose first that we can think of precipitation as sort of, um, composed of two different components. One is what we call the synoptic scale component. And synoptic scale is just a fancy term that refers to weather systems that exist on the order of about a thousand kilometers. So these are the sort of, you know, the big kind of mid latitude cyclones that have, that have the fronts and the atmospheric rivers associated with them. Um, and that produces, you know, patterns of precipitation, um, that are not really, that we can think of as being sort of separate from the mountains. Then there's an orographic component. The orographic component represents sort of how the mountains are modifying that pattern of precipitation. So we just get this synoptic scale component by essentially just smoothing this pattern to the left. And you can think of this as sort of a rough approximation of, of what we would have if there were no mountains modifying the precipitation. Um, and then if we subtract that from the total precipitation, this represents the orographic component, the influence of the mountains. And you can see, you know, it's basically positive on the Western slopes where precipitation is strongly enhanced. And then it's negative in these range shadowed regions where precipitation is suppressed by the mountains. So the key point here in explaining this pattern of precipitation change is that this orographic component becomes less important as the climate warms. I'm going to skip over, um, exactly why that is for now. Um, and just tell you that for sort of theoretical reasons, we think that this orographic component should become less important at a rate of about 3.2% for every degree, uh, Kelvin of warming. So we can write up a really simple model, um, that assumes this, um, this sort of relative scaling of the orographic and synoptic scale components. Um, and then we can test how well that model reproduces all of the patterns of precipitation that we get from each of these individual PG or each of these individual RCM simulations. So on the left, we have the ensemble mean, and then here are each of those five individual models. Um, and when we try to reproduce these patterns with this simple model, just based on this really simple assumption of just diminished orographic influence, we can reproduce these patterns actually remarkably well. So this gives us confidence that this really is in fact, what's governing this pattern of precipitation change, even though, you know, this, you know, is a lot of the patterns. Precipitation change, even though, you know, these synoptic scale patterns of precipitation change are quite different across these models. This, um, this smaller scale structure is really well explained by the simple scaling. Um, the simple difference in scaling between the orographic and synoptic scale components. components. So why does this happen? This is not the way we explained it in the paper. Actually, that's sort of a complicated explanation. I'm sort of wishing we went with a more hand-wavy explanation, but I'm going to try that out here for you today. So let's sort of imagine a mountain here that has height h, and then, you know, if this is the Cascades or the Sierras, we're sort of looking north. North is sort of into the page, right? We have west to the left, east to the right. So the storms are coming off the Pacific, and the blue colors here represent sort of the concentration of water vapor. So you can see, you know, the atmosphere is bluer in the lower part of the atmosphere than in the upper part of the atmosphere, and that reflects the fact that water vapor is really concentrated near the surface. And one way that we kind of quantify that is through something called the moisture scale height. If we just sort of plot the concentration of water vapor here in the left panel as a function of height above the surface, C, we see, you know, it decreases roughly exponentially, and, you know, the moisture scale height is sort of a measure of how fast that decrease happens. And in the current climate, you know, that's maybe two kilometers, two and a half kilometers, depending on the conditions. And so, you know, these dashed blue lines here represent sort of the rate of precipitation, where they become denser on the windward side, the precipitation rate is increasing, and then the precipitation really dies out in the rain-shadowed region because a lot of this moisture that's below the mountain height has been rained out as it ascends over the mountain. Okay, so what happens in a warmer climate then? Well, in a warmer climate, you get more water vapor. I think many of you probably know that. But it's not just that you actually get more water vapor. The water vapor also penetrates further up into the atmosphere. In other words, this moisture scale height increases. So it's not just that we have kind of bluer colors everywhere. In the left panel here, we have this red line kind of representing, again, the concentration of water vapor as you go up. And it's higher at the surface, but the increase is actually greatest above the surface because it's not simply that water vapor is increasing, but that this moisture scale height is increasing. And so we generally get precipitation increases everywhere. But in a relative sense, we get the largest increases in this rain-shadowed region because it's above mountain height where a lot of that moisture increase is occurring. And so, you know, if we think about orographic influence as being controlled by this ratio of the mountain height to the moisture scale height, the mountain height's not changing in a warmer climate, but this moisture scale height is changing, right? It's increasing. And by increasing the denominator here, we're essentially getting a decrease in the total orographic influence on precipitation. So you can think of it as like in a sort of non-dimensional sense, right? If this is a non-dimensional mountain height, mountains are essentially becoming smaller. Not in sort of physical space, but in this non-dimensional space. So that's how I think of it. Okay. So I want to, my last point here is just that this has implications also for what I'm calling precipitation flashiness. So these global models generally predict that extreme precipitation is going to increase at a greater rate than mean precipitation. And I should have taken this figure out because it's a little bit complicated, but let me try to explain it here. In the control climate, we have this sort of percentile of the distribution. So if you kind of sort all time periods from least precipitation to greatest precipitation, this is the really extreme percentile of precipitation over here. And then you have more moderate percentiles over here. And this green line kind of represents the percentage change across each percentile of the distribution. So you, you know, in these lower percentiles, you're often getting decreases in precipitation, but you're getting really large increases at these high percentiles of the distribution. So this is sort of representing something that you've probably heard, which is that, you know, both droughts and floods are likely to increase. We're likely to see kind of an increase in extremes on both ends. Interestingly, and I will say probably Angie's going to say something about this in her talk. I don't know if she's, Angie Pendergrass is the next speaker. I would guess she'll, she'll probably touch on this idea to some degree as well. What was really surprising to me, at least, was that these regional models really don't predict this to be true, at least not everywhere. There's actually a lot of sort of orographic difference here on the, on the Western side versus the Eastern side. If we look at changes in extreme precipitation versus mean precipitation, this is the difference over here. And all of these blue regions are regions where as GCMs predict, we see larger increases in the extreme than in the mean. But there are really large parts of the Western US that are red, meaning we're actually seeing larger increases in mean precipitation than in extreme precipitation. So we're actually getting a decrease in flashiness in a lot of these regions. And, you know, these are regions that are really important for water resources, right? They're water limited. Many of these regions, for example, in eastern Washington rely very heavily on, on irrigation for agriculture. And so, you know, this could be pretty important. So, you know, I think we understand why this happens too, and I won't go into the details, but I'll just say that, you know, our simple model that's built on this assumption of a decrease in orographic influence also captures this contrast between windward and leeward sides in terms of the precipitation flashiness change. And, you know, I'll just briefly say that these changes in precip flashiness are very likely to have an important effect on, on runoff and on soil infiltration, moisture infiltration into the soil. And so, you know, this, this is really an important area, I think, of further study that we've only just started to touch on the hydrologic impacts of these precipitation changes. Okay. I'll just briefly summarize here that, you know, in these regional climate models, we see this sort of rain shadow weakening, but really it's more general than that. Mountains in these simulations just have a weaker influence overall on precipitation in a warmer climate. A simple model that's just, that's based on this principle can mimic this effect really well. So we, that gives us confidence that, that we understand what's going on. And then this also, you know, has important implications for precipitation flashiness. Again, you know, this is something that, that GCMs just can't really capture because they don't really resolve the topography very well. Okay. With that, I want to just spend a couple, maybe a minute or two, I guess, talking about, you know, the importance of funding for this research. And then I can maybe address where this location is. So, you know, this research was funded primarily by the National Science Foundation, but these simulations and other simulations that we've looked at have been run, you know, by the, by the National Center for Amnesty Research and the Department of Energy in this case. And all of this work was really made possible through funding and support by the federal government. And, you know, and, and I think, you know, this work, like so much of the work, really all of the work that's been presented in this live stream really has very important implications for the taxpayers in the U.S. Right. It's very important to understand how in places like the Western U.S. where water is so limited, how precipitation patterns are likely to change and what the implications of that will be for, for people and animals and plants that live here. So I do think this is, you know, important work, and I'm really grateful to the federal government and National Science Foundation for supporting it. And I hope support like this continues into the future. So, Ricky, I'll hand it over to you. And maybe... Hi, Nick. I'm back again. And so lots of stuff has been happening behind the scenes. Thank you for extending your talk so much. Basically, oh, bye, Nick. Basically, what we have now is we do have Mike Wallace. And in the time before the next speaker, we're just going to bring him on with his slides. We've managed to get the slides up and running. And we're going to give Mike a chance to talk through talk through his results and to share some of his research with you. So, Emeritus Professor Mike Wallace, can you hear us? Yes. Yes. Amazing. Good. If you just click, say when to click forward. Yes. Yes. Very good. Well, I mentioned this slide and let's just move forward to the next one. And just this is a screenshot from this morning, highlighting the fires over Canada. Big news. And with the lack of being a wall at the border, the smoke is coming across the border. And the fire is causing a lot of problems. So that's kind of timely for my presentation. Next slide. Just want to acknowledge the young man who put this all together. He is a visiting scholar from China. And the young man who put this all together. And he is, his host is the Pacific Northwest Labs Department of Energy. Next. So I had mentioned this comparison of the fires, the extent of fires on days when the vapor pressure deficit is above and below normal. And so these little orange, faint in this slide, dots, these are pixels on a quarter by quarter degree grid in which there are fires as indicated by the carbon emissions. And this is a NASA product. So just toggle forth, back and forth between this slide and the next one. Below normal is the light one, light colors. Above normal is the heavy colors. If you look, you just go back and forth quickly, you can see that the fires are in the same places. It's just that they're, they're, the emissions are much more. And it turns out with the scaling on this, it's about an order of magnitude difference as to whether the amount of emissions depending upon whether the VPD is above or below normal. So that might make you wonder, since VPD depends upon temperature, it increases by 7% per degree C. So what we can see is global warming having an effect on the, on the VPD and through that on the fires. So next slide. We can see here the global land temperature going the whole record of historical observations. And this is uh, land temperature specifically. And which, and land is warming much more rapidly than the oceans. And if you just focus on the last 25 years, say from 2000 onward, you can see that there is a, uh, warming of about one degree C during this 25 year period. I should say we're focused, I'm going to focus on this period because this is the time for which we have the satellite data. And, uh, so we've seen, we've seen a degree of warming during this period. And, uh, that is true for the areas of interest in, for the fires as well. It's just about a degree temperature rise in 25 years. So next slide. Uh, we're going to take that, uh, this, uh, 25 year period and, uh, it's actually 24 years and split it up into the first half and the second half. Um, and we're, we're, I'm, uh, I'm going to show you a pair of slides and we'll toggle back and forth. And, uh, this, uh, I should say that these next slides are that it's a different color bar here, uh, in this, these next slides, the color bar is, uh, the depth of the color is proportional to the carbon emissions directly. So it's a very good indicator of the carbon emissions. So back and forth, first half, second half, first, second, you see more in the second half, especially over Canada. So, uh, and you can see that very nicely in time series. Okay. Uh, next slide, uh, same thing, uh, toggle back and forth. And this is aerosol optical depth, uh, and the increase, uh, especially in Canada in the second period. And of course we're seeing that, uh, aerosol optical depth, uh, today. Okay. Uh, next slide. Okay. This one, I'm going to take a little longer time on. Uh, this is a longer time series. If you look at the time axis here, this goes back to 1984. Uh, this is, uh, not from the NASA dataset that I was showing you before. It's a product that, uh, James at a Goki at, uh, UCLA, uh, put together just a time series for the Western United States from satellite imagery. And it's an indicator year by year of, of how much of the forest had burned over this big area of the Western United States. As I say, just a single time series. This is correlated with the corresponding, uh, NASA data that I showed you before for the period you compare it, can compare it from 2001 onward. They're correlated at a level of 0.94. So they're virtually the same. This is virtually the same thing. And so the VPD is the dash, uh, curve and the solid curve is, is the, uh, uh, is the, uh, the emissions based on that, um, this burned area index at a Goki's index. And you see how well they fit together year by year. We saw previously how they fit together day by day. And, uh, I think there's every reason to believe that that same linear proportionality should hold, uh, to, on the decadal timescale. And you see how the VPD has, has, uh, risen from the nineties to the 2010s. And actually the logarithmic trend in the fires during that period, uh, it's an order of magnitude increase from the early nineties to the last few years. So the Western United States, uh, even though it's not as spectacular, uh, in, in the, uh, imagery that I, I showed you earlier, it is experiencing, uh, uh, similar increases in the number of fires. Okay. Uh, next slide. Um, just, uh, uh, if we show this animation, just click. Yup. And so this, this is the same dataset, but, but, uh, animated showing the, uh, the actual fires in, uh, in real time, there's a, uh, somewhere on here, it's too small for me. There is a clock, but we go through the whole wildfire season here in, oh, there it is. Uh, and, uh, so we're, we're, we're into mid summer now and you see that fires are all over the place over Siberia and, and the boreal forests of Canada and, uh, the plumes just, uh, covering wide areas of the Arctic and the surrounding, uh, uh, landscape. So we can move on to the next. I guess just click again, I think. So now I want to show you a few slides from, uh, a group at the, uh, University of Maryland. Um, they put together this global land analysis and discovery data set, uh, GLAAD. And next slide, if you go to their website, you'll see this map and you see those red dots, uh, over the boreal forest. Uh, that's what we've been looking at. And, uh, on this, so this, this is just the entry to their page, but this, uh, their data set here is on a Google earth, uh, platform. So you can zoom in and, uh, as far as you want. And, uh, this is landsat data that they've, they've created this map of, uh, area destroyed or area consumed by fire, uh, year by year. And, uh, on their, on their website, you will see the cumulative loss of forest from starting in 2000 and ending in the last year, ending in the current year. So right now you see the losses over 24 years. And so, uh, if we could go to the next slide, uh, just a couple of closeups, uh, the red blotches here are just from their, their, uh, data from their site. Uh, you can see this for yourself. And, uh, this, we're looking here at Siberia and the, uh, biggest city there on the river, this is the Vienna river, uh, that's Yakutsk, uh, just, uh, in, uh, toward the lower right side of the slide. Uh, yeah, you can see the bigger letters there. And, uh, so this is the center of their, their logging industry. And you can see that in that area, there's more forest that has burned than has not burned. It's, it's consumed all, almost all of it. And, uh, the, the, those, there still are fires in those areas, but they're burning again for a second time. And here we're seeing only, uh, we don't see anything for multiple burns. We just see if an area has burned at all during this, at least once during this time. So, uh, next slide, we'll see a counterpart of that for the area around the great slave lake. And there's yellow knife on the, on the North shore, a little bit to the West. Yep. That's it. Um, that's the most heavily impacted area of Canada. Uh, next slide. Okay. Uh, for the boreal forest, this is again from, uh, the GLAAD website. This is the, uh, forested area as determined from land site imagery, nothing to do with fires. Uh, it's, it's just, uh, area covered by tree, what they sense to be trees more than five meters in height. And, uh, so this is the forest as it was in the year 2000. Next slide is, as it, uh, uh, oh, uh, let's see back. There should be a pair of slides there. Yes. Toggle back and forth. So this is, this is like before and after this is, you know, one slide is what was there in 2000. The other slide is what was left in 2004. What was left unburned. That doesn't necessarily mean that there isn't forest in these, uh, areas that have burned because the forest re regrows within a matter of years. There's shrubby forest, but it's certainly the forest was not the same as it was before it burned. Maybe just a few more toggles back and forth on that. Uh, back and forth. Oh yeah. Okay. Uh, then next one, next slide, Western United States, um, really impressive when you zoom in, as we'll see. Here's, uh, you can see the whole Western United States from Southern BC all the way down almost to, uh, uh, Los Angeles and the red dots are wildfire, uh, loss of forest by wildfire since the year 2000. And the blue dots are, are managed fires. And, uh, those are, uh, a big, you can see that they're, uh, important in the Pacific Northwest. We're just concerned here about the red. Uh, next slide we'll see zoomed in version, uh, uh, Southern Oregon. You see Ashland and Brookings at the top and Northern California. You see Susanville over to the right there. And you see how heavily, heavily the, uh, forests in this area have been impacted. And, uh, let's see, is there any more? This may be the last one. Yeah. So, uh, I'll, I'll end there. And, uh, if we have any time left, uh, um, leave it open for questions. Thank you so much. So much. So Mike much so much, like that was really good. And we have, we have a lot of comments in the chat. One of them is that these slides were so worth it. So people are really happy to see that. Oh, I'm glad you persisted. I was really give up. I think I'm, I'm just trying to, um, so there was, there was a, there was a comment I'm going to put on the screen now, which is a, it's a question. It's, is it possible for wildfires to burn a land area so bad that the fires decrease because you run out of vegetation? I think that's a good question and a very difficult one to, to answer. I think in the short term, uh, there will be more fires. Uh, it won't take long before there'll be enough vegetation there to be vulnerable, uh, again. And I, I'm not aware that there's any preference of fires, uh, for old growth versus, uh, new growth. But in the long run, uh, if, if the vapor, uh, pressure density keep decreasing and, uh, we may reach the point where the, the trees that grew in those areas are not sustainable and it'll be very different. If it is forest, it'll be very different for us, forests that favor that the trees that can grow very, very quickly and aggressively. Uh, things like blackberries in our part of the country. Yeah. Yeah. Um, but, uh, I'm not of, uh, an ecologist, so I can't really give a definitive answer to that question. Great. I think we can, I think we have Ricky who's going to come back on and just, just, just, uh, just to end, and just to finish off the Q and A, but I'll be back behind stage. Thanks again, Mike. Good. Thank you. So, um, I'll do, let's do one more question here, Mike. And, and, um, and, and it's, it's, it's, it's one, how do you recommend this from Kelsey Ward? Um, I, and I know you're not a fire scientist, but this idea of controlled burns and how would you recommend that maybe we think about reassure people about concerns and fears of controlled burns? Yeah, I'm, I'm not, uh, an expert on this. All of it, I guess I just have a couple of very quick reactions. One is that controlled burns can't get you very far, uh, in the boreal forests. And it's so vast. It's, it's hard to imagine how, uh, forest could be managed on that level to really make a difference. Uh, perhaps, uh, uh, protecting areas that are highly valued, maybe near the national parks where, uh, it would be possible to do some major, uh, it's a form of geoengineering, I guess, to protect the trees. Perhaps that's a possibility, but I guess I'm not too optimistic about saving the boreal forests through management practices. Yeah, I, I can see though what your point about sort of the urban, the urban interface, you could protect, you know, maybe yellow knife better and things like that. Um, so, so I think, um, given, given everything right now, we should probably move on. Thank you, Mike. Thank you. Good to see you. Sorry about the technical issues. Um, so I'm going to, we're going to next be moving, um, moving to the next speaker who will be Angie Pendergrass. But before that, we have now entered our 50 of the marathon. I'm Ricky Rude, your host at this point. And we've been seeing many talks and we're going to hopefully see some more. Um, the purpose here today is to make sure that we inform people and maintain a presence about the importance of weather and climate forecasts and their contributions to the economy and well-being of our society. Um, one of the things we've been asking people to do is to realize the importance of federal funding for this, uh, the threat, um, to federal funding that, um, some have occurred and more are threatened and the importance of maintaining presence and speaking out, including speaking to our representatives and governors, um, in order to, um, maintain, um, interest about the importance and funding for this research and the operational capacity that we get from it. Um, there is, um, a way to contact your representatives in the link in the crawl at the bottom of the screen. So with that, uh, we're now going to move, um, to the next speaker, who is, um, Angie Pendergrass, who will be talking about about precipitation and how it is changing. And Angie is from Cornell. Thanks so much, Ricky. And, um, can you hear me? Yes. Awesome. Um, I want to thank all the organizers for putting this together. It's, um, it's, it seems really great. And I'm honored to be following Mike Wallace, who was a professor where I did my PhD. Uh, he's an awesome teacher. Um, so it's just, it's just really an honor. So, um, what I want to tell you about in this 20 minutes, um, is precipitation. So I want to start with this map here. Can you see my pointer? I think you can see my pointer. Um, and so this is a, a map. Yes, we can. Awesome. Thank you. This is a map of precipitation everywhere on the globe for, uh, about 20 years or so, uh, from the Global Precipitation Climatology Project. So, uh, let's go. Let's see if I can go to the next slide. Perfect. Um, so what you can see here are, um, some of the features of precipitation everywhere in the world. And, um, this is made from data sets that are collected, um, by satellites run by NASA, um, and also by, uh, observing stations, um, on the ground in countries all over the world. And those data are merged together to form this, um, this precipitation data set. So we can see all kinds of interesting things here. Um, one of the things that jumps out first is this area that has the heaviest precipitation on the planet. Um, and so that's kind of focused here in the southwestern Pacific. Um, and it stretches through this thing we call this the intertropical convergence zone all the way across the Pacific. You can also see there are some areas of heavy precipitation in the deep tropics over this kind of island, um, continent and over South America. We can see there are these regions of, uh, relatively little precipitation, um, on the eastern edges of the ocean basins in the subtropics. Um, so we can see that just off the coast of California here, um, and also off of Mexico. We can see it off of the coast of South America. Um, we can also see it out off of the, um, west coast of southern Africa and also off of the Sahara as well as heading eastward from Australia, um, and in the Middle East. So we can see in mid-latitudes there are these things called the storm tracks. Those are regions of relatively heavy precipitation. And they start kind of from the eastern edges of the continents in the latitudes and head out to the ocean from there. Oops, sorry, moving forward too quickly. And so I am in Ithaca, New York right now. So that's right around here. So it is relatively rainy here. Um, I did my PhD, um, in Seattle, which is over at this edge here of this rainy region where the Pacific storm track kind of hits out. Okay. So there's all kinds of things going on here. And this is just a view of annual mean precipitation over a long time period in all of these places. Um, if we look over a shorter time period, so this is one snapshot, um, from another NASA product, the global precipitation measurement mission, I merge product that I just pulled off last night. Um, and this gives us a snapshot, a 30 minute snapshot of, um, of precipitation all over the world. So instead of this annual mean over many years, the snapshot just 30 minutes from last night. And we can see that there is a little bit of heavy precipitation here. There's a lot of dry regions, the whole Western US, um, it's not dry in Alaska and there's something else that's probably going to be coming to Alaska. It's also not dry, super dry over the Sahara. There are some bands of precipitation over the ocean in the Atlantic and also in the South Atlantic and the South Pacific. We can see some things that look like kind of mirror images of the Northern hemisphere in the Southern hemisphere in your latitudes, if you kind of squint. Um, and then we can also see these, uh, these little popcorn-y looking things of convection all in this band all around the tropics. Um, but you can see that these look really different than the kinds of structures that we see when we look at the, at the annual mean. Um, and so how do we go from measuring and quantifying things about these kinds of precipitation events on shorter timescales that are kind of what we care about? They dominate whether, you know, in Ithaca it was raining two days ago and it's pretty nice yesterday. It's probably going to rain tomorrow. They dominate our day-to-day experience. And they're also driving the kinds of impacts that are important, like the droughts that can lead to wildfires, like Mike was talking about. Um, and also flooding events that happen after heavy precipitation. Which need other factors too, but precipitation is an important one. So my work is trying to reconcile these things and understand them in the present day and quantify them and also think about how they might be changing. So what I want to try to do in this talk is, um, help you walk through and help you understand my perspective on this figure. This is a figure from the fifth national climate assessment. Um, and I was, uh, an author on chapter three, which is about earth system processes. Um, and, and so I was involved with, with also some other colleagues and putting together this figure. And so this has kind of two parts. It's got this, um, drawing here of, it's a schematic, it's a cartoon. So it's, it's not to scale. It's just to give you an idea, um, of the kind of distribution of precipitation intensity, as we call it in the present climate. And then what that might look like, what we think that's going to look like, um, after we add more greenhouse gases to the atmosphere and, um, more aerosols. So this is like compared to something a while ago to something in the future from now. Um, and then we've got this second element on the bottom here where we have, um, some clouds that represent extreme precipitation on the right, um, and some clouds that represent moderate precipitation on the left. Now, each of these rain shaft bars represents, uh, the relative contribution to total precipitation. So here we see that now, um, a lot, but maybe not quite a majority of precipitation is falling in these events that we think of as extreme. They're pretty heavy events. Whoops. Oh, I'm a little touchy with my, with my mouse here. Sorry about that. Um, and then we also get a lot of precipitation in these moderate events that are more frequent. Um, they're kind of more like, you might think of them as like typical precipitation events. Um, as the climate warms because of greenhouse gases, um, what we expect to see is more, a larger fraction of precipitation falling in these extreme events and a smaller frequency of these moderate events that are typical now. Um, okay. So I'm gonna walk you through how we, how I, uh, came to this. Um, I just mentioned, again, these are not, these are not to scale. This is to give you a picture of what's going on. So, um, just, I'm starting out with a summary telling you what I'm going to tell you. So more precipitation falls at heavy rain rates and less and moderate rain rates in response to greenhouse gas, primarily greenhouse gas driven warming. And that's because of increases in water vapor in the air. Um, it's because of changes in circulation in the atmosphere and it's because of changes in the global energy budget, the energy that's, um, kept in the atmosphere and exchanged with the surface. Okay. So there's some vocabulary that you need to have for this. So the first is the something I'm calling the rain rate. And so that's how hard it rains when it's raining. And I'm just going to focus on daily timescales because that's where we have a lot of data. Um, we, it would be great to go to shorter time scales, but that gets harder and harder to do, especially when we want to go back as far as we can in time back as far as we can in time. So this is daily rain accumulation in millimeters per day. This can also be, uh, precipitation accumulation. So including snow, when we think about the, the water, the melted water that is, um, that is consistent with that. So just, uh, to tell you a little bit more about where we get this data from, um, this comes from weather stations and they're all over the world. This is a picture of one that we have at Cornell university. Um, and we can see the important thing is the rain gauge here. And so the rain gauge is actually this little instrument here. And then all around it, we've got, uh, we've got some wind chime looking things that just kind of damp the wind that's coming through there. So that the, the rain can call it fall a little bit more directly straight down into that bucket. That's measuring the precipitation. So from these data sets, uh, from these rain gauges, we can get time series of precipitation. And a lot of times those will look like a bunch of days with no precipitation, and then they'll have, um, varying amounts, widely varying amounts of precipitation from day to day. So some examples of that, um, uh, if you want to know the typical, a typical rain value in New York city, the median daily rain rate at central park is 4.6 millimeters per day. Um, so I, I'm not going to try to convert that to inches right now, but that is definitely something that's very Googleable. Um, and then we've got this picture down here, and this is a screenshot from a webcam that is on the roof of the building. Um, the atmospheric sciences building in Seattle at the university of Washington, and that coincides with the time, uh, a five minute period where there's the equivalent of 4.6 millimeters per day. So that's something that like kind of it's a gray day and you've got that rain is coming down all day. That's something that might be 4.6 millimeters per day. Now we're talking about heavy rain in New York city. Um, the maximum day of rainfall at central park in the record, starting from, uh, I think 1893 until a few years ago when I made this calculation, heaviest day was 192.3 millimeters per day. So that's a lot bigger than this 4.6 millimeters per day. So that is, uh, like not quite a hundred times bigger, but it's a lot bigger. And so you see, there's these orders of magnitude that make precipitation something hard to deal with. Um, and then if we expand out from there to the whole world, at least in this one particular data set of station data I'm using, which is listed down here, this global historical climatology network, which comes, it's, um, compiled by NOAA, though it has contributions from countries all over the world. The heaviest rain rate at any station in this data set as of a few years ago was 750 millimeters per day, which is 1.75, five meters of rain or five feet, nine inches. And that's in New Caledonia in that, in that Western Pacific region where the heaviest precipitation is on the planet on average, and also, um, on individual days. Okay. So those are some examples of, uh, of precipitation averaged over just one day. Now, another concept we need is the rain frequency. So that's how often it rains. And it can also be how often it's raining at some particular rate, close to some particular rate. Um, it can be like the fraction of time that it rains. Um, okay. Then we, we need to have the idea of the extreme rain rate. So how hard the heaviest rain events are, how hard the hardest rain events are. And there are a lot of different ways that we can specify that, but this general idea of extreme rain rates is how hard the hardest events are. And then finally, the thing I like to work with is the rain amount. So that's how much it rains over some time period. I'm going to walk you through that a little bit more now. Okay. So say we have this time series and this is over a two month period almost. Um, and this is actually from Boulder, Colorado, where I, uh, worked for a while at the national center for atmospheric research. Um, and what we want to do is we want to categorize these into a graph that I, that I call the rain amount. And so what we're going to do is we're going to, uh, take all the days that have no precipitation first, and we're going to figure out how much precipitation is falling on those days. It's zero. And we're going to put that at the left side of this plot. Okay. There's no rain on those days. We could calculate the frequency of those days if we were worried about the rain frequency distribution or not. So then we take the days in this next bin where there are measurements from 0.1 to one millimeters per day. And those actually have a little gray bar here, but they're pretty small. And we add up all the rain that's falling on all those days, um, in our time series. And we put them in this bin here. Then we want to go to the next bin, which is from one to 10 millimeters per day. In this case, and that is getting all these things in the middle here. So there are a similar number of days to the days that are in this first spin, but they have a lot more rain because the, uh, the rate is heavier. And then finally we get to this last bin from 10 to a hundred millimeters per day. And in this particular time series, we've got two of those days, but they contribute almost as much precipitation as these days of slightly lighter rain, um, because there's more rain falling on those days. So this is useful for a few reasons. Um, mostly because it gives us a way to tie back in some of these things that are happening with the day-to-day precipitation and these statistical distributions back to some of the physics that are important for this. Specifically the physics of energy being transport, transported to different parts of the climate system. Okay. So the final thing we're going to do is we're going to take our rain amount distribution and we're going to average it. We're going to divide it by the total number of days that we were looking at there. Um, and that is going to give us something that looks the same, but has different values on this y-axis. This is something I'm going to call the rain amount distribution. And this is just a kind of, um, cartoon version for you, but normally we're going to have a lot more bins that are a lot smaller so we can get more detail with this and then do some calculations with it. Okay. So we can do these calculations everywhere on the globe. Um, I do them everywhere individually and then average them together to get this global picture of the rain amount distribution. And so this is actually coming from the same data set that made this map that we started out with. Now, um, we are going to compare that to what is happening, um, in climate models. So perhaps you've heard about climate models if you've been listening to the live stream for a little while now. Um, but what I mean when I say a climate model is, um, it's a model that is simulating the atmosphere, the ocean, the land surface, and the sea ice. And we use them kind of like a laboratory and do experiments because we've only got our one planet and we're only experiencing this one realization, um, of the weather and climate that, uh, that we actually see. There could be a lot of other things that can happen. And sometimes we want to know, you know, what happens if we, uh, add a bunch of greenhouse gases to the atmosphere? What happens if we take away a bunch of greenhouse gases from the atmosphere? What happens if we add a bunch more ice in different places? What happens if we move the continents around? And those are things that we can do in these numerical models that we can't go out and do in the real world that we have. Um, my favorite one of these is NCAR's, uh, community earth system model, which is, um, open source and freely available. You can get it on GitHub, but there are about a hundred of these models around the world. And we coordinate experiments where we give them all the same kind of forcing and then see what they do and think about those as, uh, kind of different approximations as good as we can do, but they're all a little different from each other and a little different from the real world and try and get an idea of what happens when we do stuff, um, to the climate system. Okay. So when we calculate the rain amount distribution, just from a simulation that's set up to be pretty similar to that same period where we're measuring the precipitation and the observational data set, we get something that looks like this. And so now the observations are in this, on this dashed line here. And the average from uh, uh, about 30 of these models, um, is in this solid line here. And there's some error bars representing the disagreement between the different model simulations. And so this is from a paper published about 10 years ago. Um, and we can see that the models do pretty all right, not perfect, but they're getting the overall shape and they're getting the overall peak at about the right rain rate. Not exactly, but pretty close. Um, they actually, if you integrate overall, these have a little bit more precipitation than the observations do on average, but the observations are also imperfect. They're especially missing some of the precipitation over oceans that are pretty hard to measure with the satellites that we have. Okay. So, um, we can see that it's kind of okay for the present day. And then we can ask what happens when we add, uh, what we think is going to happen over the next, where are we? 2025, 75 years or so. And so when we do that, there's a big increase in greenhouse gases. Um, and there are also changes in precipitation that come along with that. And so now we can take the difference between the precipitation distribution, the amount distribution at the end of the century, um, versus earlier in the century and the end of last century. And what we see pretty consistently is something that looks like this. So we've got this increase in precipitation that's falling at heavy events, and we've got this decrease in precipitation that's falling for moderate events. Now, this kind of graph, if you, um, if you look at all of the area under this curve and under this part of the curve, that's negative here, that'll add up to the total change in precipitation that we see. Um, and so that's actually 1.5% per degree Kelvin of warming, um, in this particular set of simulations. And it's, uh, one generation ago, but it's not different at all, um, in the most recent generation, um, at least not in any meaningful way. Uh, so, um, this is a, there's a pretty consistent pattern that we see. And one of the things I do is think about ways to quantify this. Um, but this is a, this is an important concept behind what we're seeing in that graph that we had in the, um, national climate assessment that I told you I was going to try to help you understand. Now we don't have a lot of time left here because we're going to try to get back on schedule. Um, but let's see, I might tell you, I might give you one or two more slides. Um, this isn't just happening in a global mean. It's also something that's happening at individual locations to different degrees. So, um, especially in the Northeast U S box here, you can see that we've got this increase of the heavier rain rates and we've got a smaller decrease in moderate rain rates. Um, if we look over the tropics, then we get changes that are a little bit different and they're a little bit different in different places as well. But overall, this kind of qualitative pattern is pretty similar. I think I'm not going to go into why, but, uh, perhaps people hopefully can follow up later because they're going to get back on track. Is that a, is that a good idea, Ricky? I think that's a good idea. Okay. That sounds great. So let me just skim through and come back to our summary. More precipitation is falling at heavy rain rates and less at moderate rain rates. I didn't tell you why, but the reasons are because of increases in water vapor changes in circulation in the atmosphere and changes in the global energy budget. You can read a little bit more about that in the national climate assessment. And thanks so much for listening to me and to everyone else on this, uh, live stream. And thank you for your flexibility in your talk and schedule. Um, so there is, um, there's one sort of big question in the, in the chat here, which I think a number of people would be interested in. Uh, what are the basic causes of the, um, convergence zone across the Pacific and that big, big picture version of, of the client of precipitation? Well, um, so there are a few different factors in here. A lot of it is, um, we have air that's kind of coming together toward the tropics from both the Northern and Southern hemisphere. Um, because we're on a sphere that's rotating. Um, we end up having, uh, we end up having trade winds in the subtropics that are kind of pulling air a little bit, uh, toward the equator and from both the Northern hemisphere and the Southern hemisphere. And when those come together, they cause convergence and that air goes up to the upper troposphere, very high, and then comes back out at the, um, higher elevations, but it's kind of squeezed out all that water on the way. So hopefully that's a, so that's really a pretty fundamental attribute of the planet. It's heating and it's, and the fact that it rotates, which organizes things. Um, and, and, you know, I think the idea that weather and things is organized is a really important thing for people to understand, especially ones who view it as chaotic and unpredictable. Yeah. And that band of precipitation in the tropics, it's not separate from what's happening in the U S actually. It's kind of like the engine of global atmospheric circulation. When you get these big storms putting up a lot of energy into the atmosphere, they propagate that energy back out and they come to us here. Yeah. Um, and then one more quick question, um, here, you do have this changes in circulation on this slide and earlier. And, and I know that it could be an immense question, but I'm interested, are you primarily talking at weather scales or convective scales or what, where is the changes in circulation? These are happening at all scales. So the changes in circulation that are important for precipitation are, uh, changes that are happening, um, at the scale of, of these convergence zones that we were just talking about. And they're also changes that we expect to see happening at the scale of individual storms, individual events. Mm-hmm . Yeah. Yeah. Because one of the talks yesterday talked, talked about the changes potentially in convective velocity and continental storms, which was, um, the magnitude of those changes was somewhat surprising. Um, yeah. Okay. So, um, again, thank you. And thank you very much for describing that figure. I will use that, um, in my new courses. Um, and I think it is time for us to move on. So, um, so for those, um, who are just joining us now, we had a little bit of some technical issues. I want to, um, um, um, thank the technical staff for correcting them as well as, um, the speakers, Mike Wallace and Nick Seiler and Angie Pendergrass for accommodating, um, those. And so what we're going to try to do now is to nudge us a little bit back towards the schedule schedule so that, um, people coming in later, um, will get what they expect. Uh, so I'm going to give a brief, um, reminder of what this is about. We're in, I think, the 50th hour. So we're halfway through the 100 hour, uh, live stream marathon. So there are about 50 hours to go. I'm Ricky Rude from the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor. I'm retired and I'm the host for this segment. Um, all the speakers who are appearing here giving their, um, personal, um, views, um, in personal private capacities. Uh, they may not be the same of all the other participants, but we're all here for a singular reason that, um, the threats to funding, um, both realized and promised, um, threaten the, the need, uh, threaten the, the ability for us to provide excellent weather and climate forecasts, which are essential, um, for success in the modern society. Um, they help protect life, property, and contribute to the economic well-being of the nation. Um, this investment has been largely through federal funding, um, um, therefore we need to maintain a presence and a vigilance, um, with our representatives, um, to demonstrate the importance and the value and the appreciation of these weather and climate products. So, one of the things we're encouraging people to take an action on is to contact your representatives and governors and, um, and make these statements. And to help you do that, there is information at the crawl at the bottom of the screen. Um, so now I'd like to introduce the next speaker. Um, and the next speaker is Shaina Sadai, um, a professor of, no, Shaina Sadai, who will be talking about the global impact of the Antarctic ice sheet in a warming world. Um, so now I'm going to talk to you a little bit about my PhD research, which was federally funded, and I am extremely grateful for that funding for allowing me to have the education, um, and to get my PhD. Um, I've listed here some of the amazing people that I've listed here some of the amazing people that I worked with, um, throughout my dissertation work. And yeah, so we're going to think a little bit about how Antarctica affects the rest of the world. Um, a little bit of background. I got my bachelor's in, um, physics and a second bachelor's in astrophysics, and then did my master's degree in applied mathematics before switching to geosciences and climate science for my PhD. Um, I'm both a climate scientist and a critical physical geographer. Critical physical geographer means I combine physical science research with social science research to try to understand how the things that we learn from climate science also impact climate justice, law, and policy. Um, and I did my PhD work at the Climate System Research Center at UMass Amherst. And so I work mostly on projecting what could happen in the future and understanding what's happening in the present. And there are many different paths that the future could take. And these are often, um, thought of as different ways that greenhouse gas emissions could evolve over time. And so there are low emissions worlds, which are much safer versions of the future where fossil fuel production is reined in and emissions are limited. And hopefully we could keep the global average surface temperature rise to less than 1.5 degrees Celsius. But even under a 1.5 degrees Celsius warm world, there are dangerous climate change impacts that are happening. However, we're not on this pathway right now. We're on a pathway more like this heading towards maybe more like three degrees Celsius of warming by the end of this current century. And so I try to think about if you run models with different greenhouse gas emissions pathways, what happens and what are the interactions between different parts of the climate system? And so we're going to start with Antarctica. And thankfully, one of my research partners, Meghna Raghunathan, spoke a little bit earlier and gave you a really great introduction to the Antarctic ice sheet. Um, one thing I want to point out here is that, uh, we often talk about Antarctica in like sort of two different pieces. The West Antarctic ice sheet, which holds about 17 feet of sea level rise potential if the whole thing were to deglaciate. And the East Antarctic ice sheet, which is much bigger and holds about 171 feet of sea level rise potential if the whole thing were to deglaciate. Like it's not likely to have the whole thing deglaciate, but this is just to give you a sense of what the impacts could be from either side. And West Antarctica is thought to be a little bit more unstable than East Antarctica. And if we took away the ice sheet, like if the ice wasn't there, what's underneath it is the bedrock that it's resting on. And a lot of that bedrock that it's resting on is actually below sea level. So all of these places are in blue are places where the ice sheet meets the bedrock below the level of sea level. Which means that the ice sheet, especially the undersides of floating ice shelves are really susceptible to warm ocean water, melting it from below. Because the oceans are currently storing 90% of the accumulated heat in the Earth system. So warming oceans is a thing that we should be thinking a lot about. And then I know that Meghna also showed you this image of race data, which shows where Antarctica is currently losing mass, which is concentrated in that West Antarctic icy area. And I know Meghna also pointed out Thwaites Glacier, which is often talked about as the Doomsday Glacier. And so as Antarctica starts to melt, when ice that's grounded above sea level melts away, it contributes to sea level rise. And sea level rise is a very long term problem. Once sea levels go up, they stay up until a glaciation happens again. Which means that the sea level rise that's being experienced now and into the future is going to continue to rise and stay elevated for centuries to millennia to come. Which presents a huge issue for island and coastal communities around the world and coastal ecosystems. Sea level rise is also accelerating over time and it's unevenly distributed. I know you heard in another talk earlier that sea level does not rise like a bathtub. It doesn't rise by the same amount everywhere. And we will return to that thought. So this is present day spatial variation in sea level trends from satellite altimetry data. And this is an image of a climate strike in the island nation of Vanuatu. Antarctica doesn't just contribute to sea level rise. It also has impacts on global climate as a whole. Because the ice sheets are a central part of the whole Earth system. The ice sheet is in contact with the ocean. It's in contact with the atmosphere. It's in contact with the bedrock beneath it. And all of these things are evolving together as the climate starts to change. And this is a way of looking at that ice sheet as being central. So if we use a different mapping projection and we put Antarctica in the center of the world. And all of the continents and ocean basins spread out around it. These lines are showing ocean circulation. And the ways that Antarctica can be thought of as central to the Earth's climate system. Climate models, as you've heard a lot about, are incredible tools. And they work really, really well. But there's always room to improve our models. And currently, a lot of global climate models don't have fully dynamic interactive ice sheets within them. Because it's very hard to model ice sheets. But there's a lot of teams that are working on this. And soon they will all have dynamic ice sheets in them. But to estimate the impacts of Antarctic melt on future global climate, we run climate models. Adding a little bit of Antarctic melt or Greenland melt into them. And like Andy was talking about a few minutes ago, the community Earth system model is one of many climate models. It is the climate model that I use for my research. And it's able to simulate atmosphere, oceans, land, and sea ice simultaneously. And then I use the Penn State University ice sheet model, which is a dynamic ice sheet model. And this gives me estimates of how much Antarctica could melt under different greenhouse gas scenarios. This is a simulation I ran where you can see the ice sheets starting to melt away in the future under greenhouse gas forcing. I like to make my ice sheets purple. And so I take the melt water that's predicted by the ice sheet and I add it into the climate model. Or at least that's what I did for the very first chapter of my PhD research. And to run these simulations, they have to be run on a supercomputer because they're really computationally complex. And I used the Cheyenne supercomputer. I wanted to give a shout out to the supercomputer because the supercomputing facility is incredible. It is run by the National Center for Atmospheric Research. They also do the community Earth system model development in addition to maintaining supercomputers. And this is also federally funded. This is an amazing resource that scientists can use that is provided by funding from the National Science Foundation. And so I ran my simulations on the supercomputer and published the first chapter of my PhD work back in 2020. And our modeling results showed the Antarctic meltwater. So when an ice sheet melts, it's freshwater. But the ocean is salty water. And the salty water is denser than the freshwater coming off the ice sheet. So the denser water wants to stay lower. So as an ice sheet starts to melt, that freshwater kind of acts like a cap on the surface of the ocean. And it inhibits the natural vertical circulation that happens in many parts around the edge of the ice sheet. This reduces the mixing of the water that's low in the ocean and the water that's at the surface. And one result of this is that when an ice sheet starts to melt, it can lead to heat being trapped deep in the ocean waters, which is not great for the ice sheet. Because as we went over earlier, the ice sheet in many places is resting below sea level and is very vulnerable to a warming ocean. When the heat starts to accumulate deeper in the ocean, one effect that we see in these simulations is that the greenhouse gas induced rise in the air temperatures slows down a little bit because that heat is being stored in the oceans. And so it delays a little bit the warming signal in our simulations. This is a look at how that happens. So the simulations under greenhouse gas emissions scenarios are still warming, and this is showing that it's still warming. But if we can compare a simulation where I've added Antarctic melt to a simulation where I have not added Antarctic melt, and we subtract those two, this is showing the difference between them. Basically, it's isolating the impact that melt has on air temperature rise. And it's showing that delayed warming effect in the simulation that has Antarctic melt added. But these two models in my first chapter of my dissertation, they couldn't communicate with each other, the ice sheet model and the climate model. I just took the ice sheet model melt output, and I gave it to the climate model. Then I spent years trying to improve upon this experiment and getting the models to communicate with each other by having the ice sheet tell the climate model how much melt is happening, and then having the climate model say back, okay, this is how my ocean temperature evolved, this is how my air temperature evolved, this is what happened with precipitation, and then the ice sheet model says, okay, and runs for one year, gives a new melt estimate, and so on and so forth. So they can pass the information back and forth. And this gives us a better sense at how climate feedbacks happen, how the different parts of the climate system are communicating with each other. And science is better with friends. So during my PhD work, Yue Dong was also a PhD student and saw my first paper and got really interested and asked for some of my data to work on her PhD work. And so we were collaborating together. We now both have our PhDs. I also met Dr. Natalia Gomez, who is a researcher in Canada that specializes in the spatial fingerprint of sea level modeling. And I was really inspired by her work, so I reached out and we started collaborating. So for my next chapter of my dissertation, I invited them in so that we could all work on our science together and have more models going at the same time. And these are some of our results from these interactive simulations. This work is currently under peer review, so you're getting a sneak peek. This is how the ice sheet evolves under a relatively low emission scenario at the year 2100 and at the year 2200. So you can see it starts to melt away. This is that Thwaites Glacier region. Everywhere in red, the ice sheet is thinning out and losing mass. By the year 2200, you can see that a lot more mass has been lost. And this means that it's contributing more to sea level rise. Under high emissions, we have a very similar pattern, but we have more melt over here. I'm going to put these side by side for you for a second at the year 2200. Relatively low emissions, relatively high emissions. And of course, under low emissions, there's a lower contribution to sea level. So under the lower emission scenario, a little bit less than four feet, Antarctica contributes to globally average sea level rise by the year 2200. Versus high emissions, 11 feet of sea level rise. Not good. And that's just from the Antarctic contribution. It doesn't include the other factors that go into sea level rise. What I want to point out here is that under the low and the high emission scenario, we have a different spatial pattern to how the ice sheet has started to melt. We have a very similar melt pattern in the West Antarctic portions, but a much different response in East Antarctica, which is the place that we had thought might be more stable. But in these simulations, under high emissions, East Antarctica is not quite so stable anymore. And if we think back to the beginning and think about the sea level potential of East Antarctica and look back at where the ice sheet is grounded below sea level, it's maybe not that surprising that we start to get more melt happening in East Antarctica under a high emission scenario. Because this is another region where it's grounded below sea level like it is in West Antarctica. And so sea level rise, as you know, it's not like a bathtub. The ice sheet is big and massive and it pulls the ocean towards itself through gravity. And when it starts to melt, it has a lower gravitational pull. So the local sea level goes down a bit and far away, sea level goes up. So we ran a sea level model with our coupled model output and we got this spatial pattern under the relatively low emission scenario at the year 2200. And the thing to notice here is that in purple, that's where the global average value of sea level is. So if Antarctica is contributing on average four feet, then that would be that on average signal. Everywhere where it's darker blue is places where there is more sea level rise. And so far away from the Antarctic ice sheet, we have a higher sea level impact. Looking for a second at our air temperature response, we still have the delayed warming signal when these models are communicating with each other. So the air temperature rise on average across the Earth happens a little bit slower, about 0.3 degrees Celsius less warm at the year 2100 under our meltwater simulations. And that is because of that heat storage in the deep ocean. Or that's one factor of it that I want to point out. So the climate is still warming. The air temperatures are still warming. But heat storage in the ocean becomes more efficient because of that fresh water melting off the ice sheet and capping that surface of the ocean, which inhibits that vertical mixing. And another thing to think about here is that this is just one set of models. These simulations are really computationally expensive. And there's lots of different types of climate models. There's lots of different ice sheet models. And so don't think about this like a forecast. Think about this like one possibility of the future. We need lots of model developers creating lots of models and all running similar simulations so that we can all compare our science to each other. Other groups that have done similar science find very similar types of climate responses. So we think that this is a pretty good idea of how the climate system responds to Antarctic ice sheet melt. I want to tell you a little bit about another topic real quick, which is part of the critical physical geography part of my PhD research. As I was working on this, I started to think around 2019 that I was having trouble with thinking about what this meant for global policy. Because if as Antarctica melts, it slows down the rate of air temperature rise because that heat is being stored in the oceans. But it also simultaneously raises sea levels. And given that the Paris Agreement has a goal within it that references air temperature, I started to think about what are the climate justice implications of basing policy, having policy be sort of guided by air temperature response. And if we put Antarctica aside for a second and just think about the climate injustices of sea level rise, I'm using justice theory here. And so these are a few of the climate injustices of sea level rise. There's distributive injustice, which means the changes over space and time and how inequitable they are. So there are high impacts of sea level rise on people who are really not responsible for greenhouse gas emissions. There's also the long term impact of sea level rise, which presents an intergenerational injustice. There are procedural injustices, meaning that political power in negotiations is often held by high emitters. And their interests can work against strong global climate action. And there's recognition injustice, which means that there is currently insufficient action, climate action to safeguard the livelihoods of all people. And also there's the issue of historical injustices such as colonialism, shaping current vulnerability to sea level rise. All of this work was done in combination with my dear friend and mentor, political scientist, Dr. Regine Spector. And we looked at the role, like the role science plays and political power plays in international negotiations. And when we're thinking about who is thinking about sea level rise on the international stage, it's the Alliance of Small Island States. They have been talking about the dangers of sea level rise since the 1980s, when the Maldives hosted the first ever international conference on sea level rise. And they have been strong proponents for climate action throughout the entire international negotiations process, which has been ongoing for 30 years. Their efforts are the reason that we have that stronger 1.5 degrees Celsius goal in the Paris Agreement. And this is a look at their emissions. The combined emissions of all 39 member nations of the Alliance of Small Island States is this incredibly small blue line at the bottom of this graph. And this red is the combined emissions of all nations in the world. So the Alliance of Small Island States members are not really contributing to the emissions that are driving sea level rise. One other thing to consider is that there is this idea of overshooting the temperature rise and drawing temperature back down through things like carbon dioxide removal. This is just a theoretical way of bringing down temperature rise, but it's not yet proven to work at scale. However, if we overshoot temperature targets, we can induce instabilities in the ice sheet. You can't draw down sea level in the same way that you theoretically could temperature. And another thing that we considered is the spatial impact of the Antarctic sea level rise fingerprint on the members of the Alliance of Small Island States. And they're all labeled here on this plot. They experienced the Antarctic contribution to sea level rise at 11 percent higher than the global average, each of them. But some nations in the Alliance of Small Island States would have projected impacts of 33 percent higher than the global mean Antarctic contribution. And so what the Antarctic case study shows us about climate justice is that climate feedbacks within the Earth system can complicate the use of air temperature based guidelines for policy if they're used in the long term. Overshooting the Paris Agreement goals threatens ice sheet stability. And the one way that we know to actually safeguard the ice sheet is to reduce fossil fuel emissions. And Antarctic fingerprints show that there is a disproportionate impact on Aeosis nations relative to their relatively low emissions. So I just want to close by saying federal funding supported all of my Ph.D. research. The National Science Foundation and NASA grants supported me and all of the resources that I use, like supercomputers. And getting my Ph.D. allowed me to go on to then teach college students about climate change and weather and to keep producing different types of research that can be beneficial to the world. Also, because animals were mentioned earlier, I wanted to say that my bunnies also support climate justice and funding for science. And so, yeah, Antarctica has far reaching impacts on climate, sea level, human and non-human communities. And federal funding produces cool science and supports people getting to do this work. Thank you so much. Thank you very much. So for those who are just joining, we are trying to make up from some earlier technical issues. And we're going to do a couple of questions here that have come in from the audience. The first one is from Charlie V. And Charlie asks, what does fully dynamic mean? You said that about ice sheets. And I'll also add to that, what's fully coupled mean? Because you talked about coupling. Yeah. So a fully dynamic ice sheet would be a model of an ice sheet that is able to simulate different types of processes, such as marine ice sheet instability or marine ice cliff instability. Basically, it's able to simulate the ways that floating ice shelves respond to changes in air or ocean temperatures. It's able to take into account where the ice flows faster. If we think back to Meghna Raganathan's talk earlier, she was talking about ice flow and ice fracture. So it's able to simulate dynamically all of the different processes that tell an ice sheet how it moves in response to changes in its surroundings. And then a fully coupled model is a type of model that is including different parts of the Earth's system. So a fully coupled model would have an atmospheric component that's talking to an ocean component, that's talking to a land component, that's talking to a sea ice component. And all of these different model components pass information back and forth to each other through what is called a coupler. And a coupler is just a piece of code that takes information from one part of the model and tells it to the other parts of the model. Okay. Thank you. And so one of the things that happens there, going back to the other talk, is an ice sheet is not just an ice cube melting. It's moving. It's got a lot of things going on. And then I think the one other question that I will do that's in the chat, and I'm going to combine two of them because I think it's important to the purpose of this event, which is a combination is how do you get the time on the supercomputing? And is that access to the supercomputing threatened by these various cuts to NSF? Yeah, those are really good questions. So the supercomputer is supported by a huge staff at the National Center for Atmospheric Research. The particular supercomputer I was talking about has been replaced by a newer version right now. But you basically, you get time usually through having some sort of federal funding. So like my work was NSF funded. And so I was able to apply for time on the supercomputer by showing my NSF grant and the type of research we were doing and getting an allocation to be able to use a certain amount of computing time. And you don't necessarily need to have federal funding. There is also other support systems for early career scientists. But a lot of it is by having federal funding, you can apply and you can get some computing time. And I do really worry that this is being impacted by federal funding. I know there have been some impacts already to some of the supercomputing center and some of the staff that work there. And they I just want to stress, they are amazing people. They are so kind. They are so supportive. The work that they are doing is so valuable. And I wouldn't have gotten my PhD without them. And I do really hope that funding for those really important computing resources and the people who do that work, I want that funding to continue. Excellent. Thank you. And with that, I think that we need to move on. My term here is host is over. And I will be handing it to Rebecca Jackson, a physical oceanographer. And thanks for all of the accommodations on the technical issues. Hi, everyone. Thank you so much, Ricky. That was some great hosting. And thank you to all of our speakers. We're just going to take a moment now because we just passed the halfway point, just passed the halfway mark. I'm Jonah. I'm one of the organizers. And let's bring on some of the other organizers here. We just wanted to take a moment to say hello to you all, everyone in the chat. Can we get some of the other organizers up here, up on the screen? Here, I'll add some. There we go. There we go. Wow. Okay. Hi, everyone. So, everyone in the chat, we just are so thankful for all the support you've been giving, for all of the great comments. You might not know this, but we've been just getting so much joy from passing some of the back and forth and reading and following along. You guys are so great. This is a dream come true for all of us. Here are some of the organizers. There's more people behind the scenes. It's a big group. But we are doing this for you. And we're so excited by all the support you've been showing. We just made it halfway through. And here we go. Almost halfway to $100. It was great. We did that. We did that. Oh, my gosh. We made it. Who thought we would have gotten this far, you know? Who would have thought we'd gotten this far? That's right. We have many, many more excellent talks coming up. And we're only halfway there. But we're hoping that, you know, you folks were here for the first part. You folks were here to see the early days, the beginning, to see us as we found our way, to see us, you know, in all of these, through all these different great panels. Amazing dog just showed up. So, is that Darcy? Is that right? Yeah. Okay. But this next stretch, the second half, this is where we're going to be. This is where things are going to get real. This is, you know, we really want to get our message out. We want to help people to keep their vital weather and climate resources, their weather and climate forecasts, their weather and climate science. And we need your help for this. You know, right now we're a stream. That stream has to become a river. And that river has to become an ocean. Because you can't stop an ocean. You know, if we really get enough people out there talking to their representatives, if you can, please, tell your friends about this. Tell your family. Tell your network. If you have ways of getting our message out there, we have, you guys have seen, we have incredible talks. The talks people have been giving are on some of the most amazing science and some of the most important science, science to help you and all of us understand our future here on this planet, here in this country. And so we want people to know this great work that's being done and why it's important to keep it. Because we really need it. So we're actually about to reset the stream. Excuse me. In a moment. Does anyone else want to say anything? Any words from the other organizers? Maybe just a hooray? Just a cheers? Thank you guys so much for watching us. Thanks everyone for watching. All your friends and family. Woo! Okay. We love you all. We'll see you on the next stream, on the next time. Thank you, folks. All right, Chad, if you make it to the other side, you will see pets again. Yeah, head to wclivestream.com slash watch. So you can keep following along. All right, y'all. We counted you. We took down your names. We want to see you on the new stream. It's wclivestream.com slash watch. We hope to see you all there because we are loving your questions. They're so smart. They're honestly, they're really smart questions. Y'all are brilliant. And we love all of them. So we hope to see you at wclivestream.com slash watch. And thank you for your patience over the next couple of minutes. As we reset the stream, we have an exciting lineup of talks still to come.