Reel Life at Farm Sanctuary - Ep. 1: Pasture Rotation
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=joHKCR-te50
Nonprofits & Activism
 Hi, I'm Suzy and I'm the National Shelter Director at Farm Sanctuary in Mockets Glen, New York. And today what we're going to do is we're going to rotate the animals on different pastures. One of the things we do on the farm is we have to rotate the animals on pasture. Our ruminants, our cattle, our goats and our sheep are all on pasture this time of year. But we have to manage the pastures and we don't let them go to seed. We have to make sure the grass is really good for them. So the cattle and the sheep and the goats actually go from one pasture to another. Some of the pastures we actually make our own hay on, which is what we're doing on a few right now. So what we're going to do today is move the animals to new pastures. So most of the groups are moving today. So we're going to start with the calves. Very inexperienced calves, so they don't know, they don't necessarily follow us like the rest of the animals, but we'll see what happens. You guys come in? This is a learning experience because most of our cattle will come, what you call them. Same with the sheep and the goats. But these guys, because they're babies, they don't really know the new, the whole explanation of moving. Come on, let's go. Come on. Come on, ladies. Come on, baby. Where are you from? I just want to find Foxe's 40 In theivers что-on-the-m гарpp any more at your cost can devereる. I think there are some people who've been using cars also. That can sex that fun. Look at the volumes. I help every hour to think about Ezra. Theouring of the livestock this year, ale és好 TRACIE na defence where this 가격ing pelican no longer is a country. Maybe this is a country can't be seen by a countryaiser You like your new pasture? Say it or do you want? Now we're going to move the main cattle. So we'll go up right now and see where they are and we'll move them to the next pasture. Go! Come on Bradley! Come on Maxine! And if you notice, they call back to the ones that are lagging behind. Because there are certain ones, they're kind of like a click. Maxine hangs out with Gidget and Robin and they're a little pokey at the end. It's really beautiful up here now. And so if they feel like it, and it's cool at night, they can stay up here and sleep because they have access to water and they have tons of trees. Like there's a big wooded area back here, so they can sleep in the trees. And they seem to really, really enjoy that. I think they feel a little wild when they're up here. Okay, I'm going to close the gate, but then we're going to go down and we're going to move the trees. Come on! Come on! I'm staying with Gidget. Come on! Hey master! Good bye! guitar solo guitar solo guitar solo