Tips on Harvesting Baby Spinach in a Container
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JoimqGNSGXg
Howto & Style
 Music Welcome to Growing Your Own Food in Your Own Backyard. And if you are new to my channel, please consider subscribing and don't forget to hit the like button. It is now for me to harvest my baby green spinach. And as you can see, it is really healthy and it is ready to be harvested. So I just wanted to take you along and show you how to harvest baby green spinach in containers. Now there are two different ways you can harvest baby green spinach. You can actually cut it from the outside and work your way inward. But, oh my goodness, it would take forever for me to harvest each leaf and work my way inward. Or another way to harvest is just to cut it right off at the top like this. Now you don't want to cut it too far from the base because you want to come again. So this is going to be cut and come again. And as you can see, I still am leaving a base in the container as I'm harvesting the spinach. And I'm dropping a few on the ground. And you can see some of the baby spinach is still being left. And this is a quicker way. So I'm going to go ahead and harvest all this. And again, this is a quicker way to harvest the baby green spinach. And I did not cut it all the way down at the base because I want to be able to harvest my baby green spinach again. So if you would look inside the container and you can see there's still a lot of the stems left, which will allow the spinach to grow again. So here's my first harvest of the baby green spinach. And I am growing baby green spinach, which is a cool season crop in the dead of summer. And you would ask, how am I doing this? Let me show you. I have a screen that I put over the container like this. And I have two large stakes on the end, very thin. That I hold up. And then I curl these down and clip them. And then I also clip the sides over here. This container of baby green spinach only gets morning sun. About 11 o'clock, my patio is no longer receiving sun. So it's getting morning sun and it's getting filter sun. It's allowing me to grow a cool season crop in the middle of the summer. It is now on July 1st. And as you can see, I just have a large bowl of spinach that I just harvest. Another benefit of using a shade mesh cover is it keeps the insects off the spinach. The airwigs, the butterflies that want to lay their eggs on the brassica crops. It serves many purposes. And so it allows me to be able to harvest, grow and harvest baby green spinach for the remainder of the summer. I have about another week before this spinach grows again and allows me to harvest. And hopefully I may be able to get a third harvest before the end of the season. So hopefully in the next seven days, I should have another container full of spinach. And therefore I am going to fix a spinach salad for dinner tonight. I hope you enjoy the tips. Thank you for watching and don't forget to hit the like button.