Orchard Management
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jqfUnCiB-80
Education
 Picking the right site for an orchard or picking the right fruit for your site is really critical especially in a state like ours in Montana. You want a spot where you can maximize the sun you're getting and also you want a place for the cold air to get away from you. So often slight slopes are important because that allows the cold air to drain away. We often see orchards that are close to rivers have crop failures because they'll lose all the blossoms with a severe frost in the spring. When you're thinking about starting a fruit orchard or vineyard assessing the soil is very critical because before you plant there are some things that you can fix that cannot be fixed once you plant. One of the very first things you're going to do when you look at fertilization of your orchard or small fruit production is to do a soil test to find out where your needs are and what kind of fertilizer or nutrients you might be lacking. We usually need to add fertilizer to our system and it's really going to depend on that soil test. So there's a lot of ways that you can get those nutrients to those plants whether it's a liquid form and that would be more of a drench type granular form and it might even be a chelated or foliar application in some instances. Not everything not every apple cultivar will thrive in Montana. The first level of cultivar selection is will it grow here? The other considerations are what are you going to use it for and what your markets are. If you're growing apples for profit you really need to spend a lot of time thinking about that as well because you don't necessarily want to try to compete with the large-scale apple producers in other parts of the world. You want something that's unique, novel and that connects with your local market here. Another thing that's very important especially here in Montana but throughout the Intermountain West would be cold hardiness. We have a lot of different cultivars out there of different fruits that might do well in other areas but we want to look for a hardy fruit so that really kind of strains what cultivar what our palette of cultivars that we can work with. So one of the things that we look at in an orchard and irrigation is that a lot of orchards start out with drip irrigation and then move into maybe an even overhead type irrigation system. One of the things you want to avoid at all cost really is to get the foliage wet. When you get the foliage wet you're in you're encouraging an environment that's susceptible for disease and so usually when we're using overhead irrigation it really wouldn't be overhead irrigation this it's below canopy irrigation you want to use a low trajectory so that you're not spraying up into the canopy. So that's going to be an important concept to think about when irrigating. So most of your small fruit most of your tree fruit you really don't want to get the foliage wet so you're going to try to use some type of irrigation system that encourages the plants to get water without that foliage getting wet. Labor in the orchard is a big challenge in Montana because there there are periods of the year where you need thousands of hours of labor and other periods of the year where you need almost none. The biggest challenge is harvest. You've got a crop that's ripe it's starting to fall off the tree you need to get it picked packed and to market in a short amount of time and often you know a single person or single family operation on any large scale can't keep up with that. So yeah farms usually hire on crews to help during that time. Labor is the number one expense when it comes to orchards and so you want to reduce that labor as much as possible and so sometimes looking at the technology is a better way to go especially if it's a larger orchard. Proper timing of harvest really depends on your end use and your markets. If you're selling to fresh markets or making cider you want to pick sort of at maximum ripeness. If you want to put those apples into storage you may want to pick a little bit before their peak ripeness so they store a little bit better. Also important in harvest is proper picking. A lot of people don't know there's the right way or the wrong way to pick an apple. Because in some apple varieties they bear on flowering spurs so it's a flower bud that will keep coming back and renewing every year and if you just rip that up off the tree you can tear that flower bud off and you will get less apple production the next year. Yeah you need to have pickers that can curl the apple up and not break that fruiting spur off to make sure that you're not damaging the next year's crop. One of the things to remember is when you're planting an orchard is that especially in a tree fruit orchard you may not get production for five to seven years and so you have to think about your income stream at that point in time. The other thing is that there are certain times when the orchard is going to need a lot more care than other times of the season so really we see a lot of orchard management that has to happen usually in the spring and especially in the fall when we're looking at picking those are going to be there two biggest and busiest times when it comes to orchard management.