This Can Create Endless Green Energy WITHOUT Electricity
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jwb3djxm2dQ
Science & Technology
 If you wanted heat from this woodpile, you'd probably just start a fire, right? But that would be a huge waste. In the 1970s, this French forester noticed something unusual. When he piled up chipped wood and left it to rot, it started generating an enormous amount of heat. This observation sparked an extraordinary idea. He'd build a completely natural power plant, capable of fulfilling 100% of his energy needs. Heating, electricity, fuel for his car, all of it from decomposing wood. With this system, no fossil fuels, mining, or manufacturing were involved. In fact, the only byproduct was a highly nutrient-rich fertilizer that he would use to grow tropical fruit. In the Alps, it became known as the Jean Pan Reactor, unlocking usable energy from compost. Fifty years ago, this man cracked the code for free, renewable energy. Why aren't we using it today? Notice anything unusual about this pile of manure? Unless a herd of cows just organized a synchronized dump 30 seconds ago, it's giving off a suspicious amount of heat. Gross? Sure. But what you're looking at is free, natural energy. You see, when you gather manure or food scraps in a pile, microbes break down organic matter in a reaction called aerobic decomposition. This reaction turns waste into compost, releasing carbon dioxide and ammonium. But it creates something else too. Heat. Gardeners have known this for centuries. In 17th century France, they built compost hotbeds to grow vegetables in the middle of winter. A century later, the British were using the same trick to grow pineapples. This is seriously powerful stuff. 35 cubic feet of decomposing manure can release up to 2500 kilocalories per day. That's enough to boil 8 gallons of water. So yeah, using compost to grow food isn't anything new. But what Jean Pan did? Well, that's a whole different story. In 1964, Jean and his wife were managing a 590-acre forest here in southern France. Surrounded by brushwood and on a tight budget, Jean opted to use wood chips as goat bedding as opposed to buying expensive straw. Surprisingly, the goats seemed healthier and less prone to disease. And when he composted that used bedding, their vegetable patch flourished. In dry, sandy dolomite soil, they were growing giant watermelons, tomato plants that were 7 feet tall, and chayote, a tropical vegetable from the West Indies. But even more amazingly, he didn't even need to water them. The plants were getting all the water they needed from the compost. Around the same time, the French government introduced new laws requiring forest managers to create breaks to slow wildfires, leaving Jean with an abundance of brushwood. As he began to chip this wood into larger piles, he noticed that if he soaked it with water and left it, the decomposing wood began to get hot. Really hot. It was this discovery that inspired Jean to build the bio-muller. At first, it was a simple rectangular pile, but over time, it became a circle that increased composting efficiency and reduced heat loss. Inside, 40 tons of wood chips were packed tightly around 650 feet of polyethylene pipe. One end pumped in cold groundwater, and by the time it came out the other side, it was a scalding 140 degrees Fahrenheit. It could do this at a rate of one gallon a minute, enough to heat their 1,000-square-foot home and supply hot tap water, day or night, rain or shine, for 18 months. But hot water was just the beginning. Hidden in the middle was a 140-cubic-foot steel tank three-quarters full of the same water-soaked brushwood. The tank was sealed and connected to a network of truck inner tubes stacked beside the pile. As the compost broke down, it released methane gas, inflating the tubes. In just 90 days, the tank could produce nearly 1,800 cubic feet, enough to power their oven and gas stoves for a full year. The remaining gas powered a generator with a modest 100-watt output, enough to charge a battery bank and light their five-bedroom home. They even ran their car on this stuff. With minor modifications, Jean compressed the gas into two roof-mounted cylinders, giving them 60 miles worth of onboard fuel. And when the Biomuller had no more heat to give, Jean simply just scooped up the wood chips, now a rich, natural fertilizer, and started the process all over again. There's no doubt, Jean's system was brilliant. Journalists and academics flocked from around the world to marvel at it. Reader's Digest featured him in 1981. His book sold over 100,000 copies. One energy journalist even hailed it as the future of fertilizer and energy production. And if you think about many of the problems we face today, the Biomuller makes a lot of sense. And today, we're talking about the global surging energy prices, which many of you have probably noticed when looking at your monthly bills. From heating or cooling our homes to cooking our food and making the products we buy energy. It is at the heart of everything we do. And when prices rise, we all pay for it. Jean's Biomuller created renewable heat and natural gas with little to no environmental impact. But the gathering and management of brushwood could also have a significant role in managing the spread of wildfires. And with fertilizer prices soaring, a local, all-natural supply sounds like a no-brainer. So why isn't everyone building one of these? Well, the problem isn't with the tech. It's us. For starters, building a Biomuller takes work. You can't just go to Costco and buy one. You have to build it. But even if you don't live in a city, you'd need a hectare of forest to gather enough brushwood. Then you'd have to chip it, pile it, and soak it, and wait weeks before it starts giving off any usable level of heat. Compare that to flicking a switch, and it's easy to see why most people aren't out there hauling 40 tons of wood chips. Oh, and your neighbors? Yeah, they're probably not going to be thrilled with that steaming pile of fermenting mulch in your yard. It's easy to see why governments or companies don't push these kinds of solutions either. Unlike solar, wind, or geothermal, there's no billion-dollar industry to back here. No corporate benefits or money to be made. Just one guy in the woods, making fuel from rotting sticks. If we're willing to put in the effort, Jean Pan gave us a roadmap. One that's free, clean, and completely circular. A system with no waste, and one that actually benefits the environment. So the question isn't, can we do this? It's, do we want it enough to try? A lot of the information I used to make this video came from Jean's book. It's full of practical, brilliant ideas about compost, forest management, and building an off-grid life. I've linked it below if you want to have a look. Or if you want to see another remarkable way you can use wood for fuel, then you need to take a look at this video. Jennifer Fall quotidiano ... ... ... ... ...