Traditional Farming Practices With Advanced Technology
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jx8bs_y7tAo
Science & Technology
 Good morning everyone! It is an absolutely gorgeous morning. No wind, it's kind of cool. Let's get in the tractor cab and see how many acres we can cultivate today. This morning we are in the John Deere 8R340. It is hooked up to our Orthman 8450 cultivator bar. We are doing an old fashioned job with a very high tech tractor. This tractor is a little bit different because it has an E23 transmission in it instead of an IVT. So our shifter looks a little bit different here and we actually have to use the clutch. Put it in reverse, ease out, back up, head out that driveway. Going to make just a quick pit stop. Wow! So pretty! Headed out to this tractor for just a second so that I can grab something out of it. This is the tractor that Grant is going to be in this morning. Oh! Speak of the devil! There he is! Corn is wet this morning. Woohoo! Grant has the exact same implement hooked up to our tractor. Look at this beautiful corn. Look at this beautiful corn. Last is a wooden notoriouslyная obra. Perfect! Similarly, we have some rising 58 passengers in my tracks. And to go back to the Squadron 56 walking. You will dimmer my tracks. This is a good thing for you... Flooring both 교 considers andHigh video ook. habt total AMBAP test We'll be right back. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. What in the world? How did this get out here? Here we are. Hopped out so that I can show you what we're really accomplishing here. This is the before. Okay. And here is the after. Here we are creating a ridge here. This is what we planted on top of. And if there is any remnant of a weed, we are plowing it up and flipping it over. This is a non-chemical form of weed control here. Just dragging an iron bar through the dirt. So this cuts. And this picks up the dirt and just, just like that. This same bar here can be hooked up to an anhydrous tank and you can pull it there. And then you can use this bar to knife in anhydrous. But we do mostly liquid fertilizer now, side dressing, and then some dry fertilizer spreading as well. So, right now, since there's no tassel, the corn is in the vegetative state. And so we figure out what part it's in by counting the leaves. So let's go right here. So this is our first thing that we count right here. See this little collar? One, two, three, four, five. This corn is in V5. And these go up to, I believe, it's either V10 or V12. And then once it tassels, then it's in the reproductive stage. And then it's got like R1, R2, R3. I believe all the way up to R6. It goes up to V10 and then it's VT. And that's when the corn tassels. And then it's R1 through R6. And then we harvest at R6. There's some really cool, helpful, informative articles out there. Just look up corn growth stages and I'm sure it can explain it a lot better than I can. You're in from thefa tables I'm sure... ... That's where the city tells us really cool. The race from 2016 and a tribe of even 2000 and a breeze from 2021 There's a lot of teenagers in that тебе made work out really cool. There you are, just that reason, so this was the reason индивидOR for your day when the Northern Tahoe. So where the overlay Waitsland travel here as well, like, every morning, you're standing up on Earth also missing The next day, this is for walks of New South. I know, maybe I had two hours to present for you for us, very long hours to go yesterday. Uhhh計 lotta I had to bring Grant and Gage to the post office because the post office called and said that my packages were taking up too much space in the post office. So no, I didn't order this stuff. If I did, Grant might have to have some kind of Amazon intervention with me. But these are all things that viewers have sent me. So we'll open some stuff up, but I just wanted to say thank you so much for all the cards and letters. You guys send me the sweetest messages and gifts, and I just really appreciate it. So thank you. It's probably all your birthday presents since her birthday was this month. Probably. We'll see what I got. Thanks, guys.