Small-Scale Hay baling Equipment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jykxIrJbznY
Howto & Style
 Hey today we're gonna talk about bailing hay on a small farm and I'm gonna go over my equipment and how much it costs. Hey welcome back to the farm. I'm gonna kind of go over the equipment I use to bail hay and because I'm probably gonna be bailing next week. It all depends on the weather. I could actually start today but it rained really hard today and so I think I got two days. You need about three or four good days of dry weather. So I'm gonna go over my equipment before I get started that way when I film I don't have to go back over it in detail. But I've got three pieces of equipment that I use now. I've got a round better but I'm gonna sell it and I got another hay rake and I'm gonna sell it. So I'm not gonna go over those. I'm not gonna go over those. I'm just gonna go over what I use. Primary now I want square bales because of my goats and probably get a milk cow here in the future. So we're gonna go strictly square bales. We're not gonna sell any of it. I used to do like 50 something acres and I had this equipment that I did and I'll talk about it but and I rail baled all that, round baled all that and we sold most of it. But we keep a few every now and then. But mainly we sold the round bales. Of course the first thing we use is this this sickle bar mower and it's a New Holland 451. It's a seven foot cut. It's a belt drive. Now the first sickle bar mower I had had that old Pikmin arm. It was a piece of wood that went back and forth like this. If you can avoid one of those and you need something inexpensive try to get a belt drive. I don't know another manufacturer that makes a belt drive. Right off the top of my head this is the ones in my area that we could get. I actually traded a canoe for this and I had $200 in the canoe but usually these go for around six or six to eight hundred dollars in my area. This had very little use. This was look brand new when I got it. I probably had it for probably 10 or 12 years. I put several cutter bars on it and it's got little knives on it right here. And how it works it goes back and forth. This right here goes back and forth. And these knives they're called sections actually cut to grass. And I've had this set of sections on there for probably oh probably five or six years. I got these from a company this whole thing. They're on bolts and I had this whole piece bought from a company in Nebraska. It was like 80 bucks. And I mean it has really done the job for me. It kind of needs replaced right now. But since I'm just mowing like three or four acres I just slow down a little bit. And don't worry about it. I don't want to pay the money right now. But I've cut a lot of hay with this thing right here. And I mean you could move up to a disc bind or really a disc mower you know is probably the new thing. I don't know how much they are now. When I processed a new one back in the day it was like $8,000. So you know I got $200 in this one. So I mean I made a lot of money with this. So well I guess my point is you don't have to spend a lot of money if you're just a small time farmer like me. You just got I probably got what four acres. I'm probably going to try to cut some across the road and my neighbors. So probably six acres that I'm going to cut this year. You get by with this kind of thing right here especially. But you know I cut 50 something acres with this piece of machine right here and never had a problem with it. It's a good piece of equipment. Like I said it's a New Holland 451. Try to go with the belt driver. They make it a nine foot too but this is a seven foot. So after you get it cut we let it dry for several days and we bail it. I mean we rake it with a hay rake and let's go over and look at this one. So this is a Massey Ferguson 35 hay rake and this is my second Massey Ferguson hay rake I've had in my lifetime. And I really like it. I like it a lot better than the New Holland. I got a New Holland 256. It's a good rake and I got five I gave five hundred dollars for that one and I gave five hundred dollars for this one with new tires on it. And but this one rakes better. It's a little heavier and don't bounce. If you're getting a little rough spot and this does all-around good job. So I like the Massey Ferguson better than the New Holland. So I'm gonna sell a New Holland. I'm gonna keep this one. But I had two when we was doing all that hay and my son would take one rake with the Ford tractor and I'd take this with the John Deere. We you know it cuts you time in half. You do a lot of you know a lot of acreage. We had two of them going. But this works off the ground. This wheel turns. It turns this chain. Turns in this mechanism over to the little PTO and it turns the rake. Now they make one that goes on a three put three point hitch. I wouldn't fool one of those. This is a lot easier to hook up. You just pull to it and you know line it up drop your pin in. And then with three point hitch we like to I like to try to avoid. So but this is a good one. The 256 I'm not saying is not a bad. I mean they've made they've sold probably thousands and thousands and thousands. I'm just saying I like the Massey better than the New Holland on the rake side. This is real good and then what it does after it dries and you rake it and this thing turns it'll pile that hay in the wind it's called a windrow and then you come by with your baler. So let's go look at the baler I'm using now. So the square baler I'm using now is a John Deere 24T. It's probably from the 60s and if you look at the newer John Deere balers there's not much difference. It's just wider and you can throw a lot more hay in it. Now this is slow you can't probably second gear is what I bale hay with. So that's the only drawback to an older machine you have to kind of go slower but I've had a lot of good luck out of this and I don't I bought this I guess $700 for this so really I'm in $1,400 in my hay and equipment and you know good good hay good organic hay like I'm gonna have $10 a bale so it don't take long to make that up. This be I haven't I've done quite a bit but not quite as much as my round baler with this I've probably done I don't know six or seven hundred bales with it. I did about 100 last year I'm gonna try to do about 250 this year so I'll film all that when we're going but this is like I said this is a I really like this I didn't like it at first when I first got it after I learned how to adjust it and everything because I first had a New Holland 68 which is even older than this one this from the late 50s probably and I got rid of it it was wore out anyway and I was looking for a hay belter I really wanted a New Holland 273 which is probably one of the best square belters made and I came across this and I got it once I got it adjusted everything and find out what kind of string now these old belters you can't use that new poly string the cheap stuff it won't tie so I had to use a the old Brazilian twine with you can't use the new poly twine I can't use that on my round belt it wouldn't even take you so I had to learn that I think that's probably one of my problems but one good thing about John Deere now I can get part go to the John Deere dealership and get parts for this even though it's made in the 60s or whatever because I broke a knotter on the back or the bill the hook bill is what it's called it's part of the knotter and I went to the John Deere dealership and they got it for me in like two days and I mean it's kind of pricey but if you need something I mean it was better than making payments so anyway I'm gonna clean it out a little bit and my problem is I don't have a shed to keep this in and hopefully I'll get to rectify that someday but this is a good this is a good little machine here so I would say this a 24T like a 336 John Deere new Holland 273 is really good 276 is pretty good I think up to I've seen a 315 on marketplace the other day in New Holland I don't know much about those but it was $3,500 and I've seen a John Deere 336 for $3,500 I wish I'd bought it and Massy Ferguson makes it pretty good like a 124 is a good one you still get parts for it and probably a Massy Ferguson 12 which is probably the same vintage as this you just can't go as fast but anyway it picks it up picks the hay up once we get into a windrow picks it up this thing turns stows it into the bell chamber and there's like a ram right here and this thing go around is like a big ram and it compresses that hay into a bale the back here it ties it and here's the nodders and all that this is the most you're gonna get one this is the most important part of it right here the little piece I replaced is right down in there and it it fit right in there they knew what this done so I mean I'll live this thing up really really good before I get started bailing so I'll leave all this chain all these fittings there I it has got a ton of grease fittings on it it's an hour seems like grease fittings on it anyway I've got where I really like this one I really like it a lot better than the old one I had the old new hauling so anyway I gave 700 I got 1400 in all this equipment and you know we'll do 250 bales this year hopefully we got some great-looking hay over there I showed you in the last video so anyway if you're thinking about maybe getting into your own hay you won't be self-sufficient that's the only reason I don't too because I don't want to depend on nobody else because you know how it goes you know you get counting on somebody somebody come by with more money offer more money for that hay and you're out in the cold so I pretty much want to be self-sufficient with all my well we try to be with our operations best we could I wish we'd grow our own feed I just don't have enough room for that okay have any questions leave a comment and I'll answer I can share all the comments hope this was informative you can kind of see my reasoning why I bail my own hay and hopefully next week we'll have a video out me cutting and bailing and all that stuff and I'll put it on there I've got an old video probably one of the first ones we made maybe episode number eight or something where we did it and got a lot of got a got a lot of good playtime anyway I hope this was helpful hit that little subscribe button over there help us grow we're trying to get to a thousand subscribers we appreciate everybody watching leave a comment if you got a question send me an email I answer all emails and comments support your local farmer and we'll see you down here in the farm in the next video