Agribuilder Farm Management | Accounting & Farm Solutions | Adams Brown CPA
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k1SX7BtgOcU
People & Blogs
 Hi, I'm Bill Glaesner and I'm the Ag Industry Leader at Adams Brown CPAs. Along with a specialized team of agricultural accountants and consultants, many who grew up and even continue working on farms today. We work alongside our farm clients to provide specific solutions to meet their needs. As a farmer, you need to be informed and in control of your cash flow and profitability. You can get a clearer picture of your farm's financial position with reports tailored to your crops, entities, and operations. Instead of focusing all your efforts on keeping records on a calendar year only for tax purposes, you will be able to pull reports by crop year on an accrual basis to determine your true profitability of operations. This timely information will allow you to make quicker and better strategic decisions to improve your results. You can make an accurate projected cash flow and complete analysis on your investment and equipment. Depreciation and tax deductions are only one factor to consider in your equipment investments. Agribuilder will help you to make an accurate projected cash flow and profit impact analysis using your historical and projected results. This will allow you to make a complete and well-informed decision on the total impact of your equipment, purchases, and trades. When your farm utilizes Agribuilder, an accounting and farm solution application we've built utilizing best-in-class software, you will have the detailed data at your fingertips to make smarter business decisions. When you choose Adams Brown CPAs as your farm's accounting partner, you will get a firm with a dedicated team that has years of experience working with everything from a small farm to those with diversified multi-state operations. An accounting partner with a deep understanding of the challenges and opportunities that farmers like you are facing today, such as rising input costs, government subsidy navigation, technology, economic volatility, and carbon footprint pressures. It is a modern approach to accounting and financial management. After all, Agribuilder was built specifically with you in mind. You've invested so much in your farm, let today be the day that you increase your financial rewards. Equip your farm with the modern financial management tools it needs to grow and to thrive. Please contact us at agriculture.cpa.