Uzbekistan Produces Products But Dont Consume Them | Big Export Lesson for New Exporters & Traders!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k27cyhubYyo
Education
 Last 2023 we have exported over than 22,000 tons. Uzbekistan doesn't consume this product. Okay. This is for export. We Indians also need to think like this and need to produce good products and export it. Over than 90% is going to China. Uzbekistan farmers are producing it just only for exporting products. To our country is exporting. Is it growing? The government is pushing all the companies to go to the international market. Friends and welcome to Gulf Food 24. We are in a pavilion of Uzbekistan where many exporter companies are exhibiting their products. So one company is Sophia Agro and we will talk to their management and understand what products they have. And how is the response of this Gulf Food and are they exporting anything to India? So please introduce your company and your products. Wait, wait, wait. I am going to Dubai every month. I get to the industry, product, buyer and market. And I understand the trend, demand and supply. I am capturing all this knowledge and I am educating you all. If you have more videos, join our YouTube membership. If you have already done it, please like and share. Thank you very much for coming. My name is Hussan. I am Commercial Director at Sophia Agro. Most of our products are agricultural products as well as pulses, green beans, kidney beans, dals as you see, raisins, dried apricots, yellow millet, red millet or dried vegetables. We are exporting these products. So friends, you can see there are a lot of competition from India also because these products come from India also. In some kind of proportion. Can we take the top selling products about green moon and the beans maybe? Green moon, this is the kidney beans. Then this one beans. Yeah, black eye beans. Black eye beans. And this yellow? This is dal. Dal, okay. For India. This is the moon dal. This is very popular in India. So they also know this name. What is it called? Yes. Yes. In Uzbekistan nobody consumes. We produce only for export. What is it? Yeah, Uzbekistan doesn't consume this product. Okay. This is for export. And this is for mostly where Indian population, where Indian consumers. We sell this one. Like we export to England. We export to Europe. We export here. We're planning to export to Gulf countries. Where the majority also Indian people. So those countries also know where Indian market. They produce this product for India. So that is the strategy from these countries. So we Indians also need to think like this. And we need to produce good products and export it. Well, so what about other products? I mean this moon we can see. This is also very top selling product. Yeah. Yearly right now, last 2023 we have exported over than 22,000 tons. To which country? Which geography? Mostly to China. It's about over than 90% is going to China. Okay. But around 10% is going to other countries like Europe, Germany, Russia, Kazakhstan, Georgia, Afghanistan. Okay. Yeah. What is the current rate of this product? Any high rate? Yeah. We sell to Dalian port of China at the curtain was out of $50. CIF Dalian. This is 3 plus. Right. I think so we can see the variety, quality. There are different different sizes I think. Yeah. Right. And you are exporting this, are producing this, are exporting this 12 months? I mean how is the demand all over the world? The demand is yearly is rising. We know that last about since 2016 Uzbekistan production and Uzbekistan export has tripled the volume wise. Okay. Even though Uzbekistan consumption is less, Uzbekistan farmers are producing it just only for exporting. Exporting. Okay. And who are your competitors producing countries? Argentina, India. Yeah. But India I think is the short of this product. Yeah. We are trying to import it. Unfortunately we cannot export now to India but I have exported to India from 2014 till 2018 until Indian government has issued the quota. Right. Bans, embargoes, I don't know how it's called. Right. The Indian partners are saying probably from the next year maybe India will open up again. Right. We will be more than happy. Right. Yeah, our rates are comparatively higher than the Argentina or Brazil or some African countries. Okay. But quality? Quality is better. Yeah. Well, if anybody is watching from India, if you need this kind of product, this is one company you can connect with. The quality is good, the price is competitive. Definitely you can check hand with them and try to explore this market. What about other dried fruits products? Dried fruits, dried raisins right now we are exporting mostly to Europe. Yeah. And we are planning to export to Gulf countries. Gulf countries? Yeah, Gulf countries. Like they are mostly interested in yellow raisins, golden raisins. Okay. Yeah. Dollar raisins. What is the name of this product? Golden raisins. Golden raisins. Yes. And what is the price of this product? What price is the price? I cannot exactly right now tell you but it depends on the quality wise. It's average $2 per kg. $2 per kg. Yeah. Golden raisins from Uzbekistan. So, if you are watching the people of Baharat, if Indian people, we also have this product in India. Yeah. There are different varieties, different geographies, demand is also huge. I think we can also export this product. Is this organic or how? No. No. Conventional. Normal. Yeah. Okay. How is the market? I mean, Uzbekistan. How is your country export? Is it growing? Yeah, it's growing. Yeah, because government is supporting a lot. Government pushing all the companies to go to the international market. Okay. Mostly pushing the companies to export more and more. Do they offer any incentives for that export? Yes. They have a lot of incentives. Mostly the exporters use the government compensation of transportation costs. Transportation. Okay. They say up to 50% of exporting products, but it's usually 15 to 20% from the export transportation costs. Okay. Like if it's $4,000, then the government is returning around $1,000 back to the export. Okay. So, he's saying that if 20% government is offering 20% support to the logistic costs, which makes the product more competitive. Yes. I think the Indian government should also think like this. And, you know, we all should grow, I would say. If we need to get this product, they can come to India. I think India is short of moons. And we were trying to import it from Mozambique. But I think Uzbekistan is also one source we can explore. The big traders, big importers, they should connect with this country, this company. Thank you all. Thank you. Keep watching us. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Thank you for giving me the info. Thank you very much.