Unknown Title
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K6cb6NNda6o
Unknown Category
 Gjigvich, which for those who, like me, don't speak Irish Gaelic, it's a traditional Irish greeting meaning God be with you. Glad you're here. In today's Hobby Farm Guys Breed Spotlight video, I get to highlight a beautiful Irish game chicken, the Flauriei Grey. Flauriei is an Irish derivation of the word fiery and it alludes to the bright red eye color of this breed. The cocks of this breed are absolutely stunning and the hens are excellent mothers. All right, here we go. The Flauriei Grey Chicken breed is up next. We don't know for certain when chickens arrived in Ireland. It may have been as early as 5000 BC by Phoenician traders. Whenever they first arrived, by the Iron Age, chickens were an integral part of life in Ireland. The arrival of the Danes around 795 AD may have introduced additional chicken floodlines and varieties to the island. From early medieval times through the late 19th century, chickens developed as a landrace breed in Ireland without human intervention. The Irish term for these chickens translates to farmyard hen. These chickens still exist today and are known as Irish gamefowl. From this diverse gene pool, distinct varieties began to be developed. This is likely the origin of the Flauriei Grey breed. In the late 1800s, an Irish immigrant, Mr. Ned Glawin, brought these chickens with him as he emigrated to America. Though few in number, they've been in America since that time. The breed is not recognized by the American Poultry Association and it's pretty rare, though they can be found with a bit of searching. In addition to bright red eyes, Flauriei Grays also sport an attractive signature feather crest on their heads. Pretty unusual for a gamefowl that traces its roots back to cockfighting. These birds are heavily boned with roosters weighing approximately 5-6 pounds and the hens weighing around 4 pounds. The males have a grey tassel and single comb that's usually dubbed. They have short, tight feathering with a black breast. The grey hackle turns into a combination of grey and red rust on the saddle. The wings are black with an overcast of grey and red in the center. Hens are a typically duller color, with a red chest and a body which is a mixture of grey and brown with a grey striped neck. The breed also has blue legs. Unlike many gamefowl breeds, Flauriei grey hens lay a respectable 160 white to cream colored eggs each year. The hens do go broody and are often very protective of their eggs. Active and flighty, these birds excel at free ranging, having exceptional self-preservation instincts. Constantly on high alert and very protective of their flock, the roosters will sound the alarm sending everyone dashing for cover at the sign of a predator. They're also good fliers, sometimes opting to fly up and roost in trees rather than return to the goop for the night. They definitely are a self-sufficient, need some space type of bird. Both the roosters and the hens don't take kindly to newcomers. If raised together, they figure things out and seem to get along. But if trying to introduce new birds to the flock, both roosters and hens can be ruthless in picking out the newcomer. Introducing an additional rooster to an established flock with a rooster is nearly impossible. If you introduce a hen, make sure that she's full grown and not a pullet, and do so slowly and with caution. Despite their independent and somewhat aggressive behavior towards other chickens, the breed is known to be calm around humans. While roosters prefer to remain aloof, the hens are less flighty around humans, and they are a cold hardy breed. So that's the Flarei gray chicken, an uncommon but beautiful breed of game chicken that was developed in Ireland. A breed with exceptional survival skills, they're somewhat lacking in social skills as it relates to getting along with other birds. This isn't a breed for newcomers, but if you're up to a challenge and breeding a beautiful and yet still productive game chicken, this may just be the breed for you. Thanks for watching. Remember to show the flarei gray chicken, yellow lizard cigarette eso esixis, pero conbruary, including yo horse 뒤에 todos ogres en el esc nerede sur la blaveria. I was셨 an océritou la patrón kirprea