Storm Hits The Ranch and Left Us With a Surprise!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k6CP2KPszas
Education
 hey hey looky here looky here oh my gosh heck yeah heck yeah so typical oklahoma we recently had some thunderstorms some rain and uh we was in oklahoma city for a wedding and it was snowing up there it just don't count out april well me and the girls pull up to the ranch i noticed a turkey pen has moved a little bit and i saw something standing outside the front of it and i was like we've got a turkey up there's a hen on the outside of the pen yeah we'll go check that water gap this is interesting bison already been here well look at that i think the water got up just a tad this is our normal crossing there's some of them cedars i cut down or somebody cut down i don't know it depends on where it came from i don't think it could be anything you cut down is it maybe it would be up yeah always a good time to look for arrowheads all right well guess we'll go around it they're not out that's good oh there they are yeah that's they hurt us positive is that they're in here oh they're excited to see us let's hope that this yeah water gap hold on where are you going guys he's back here behind us there jazz okay stop you got a limb on your head there who's that peter colt whoo she is fiery yeah eleanor's look like that yep eleanor is brooksey cube observations did that limb start to snap or has it always been that low it's always been low oh hey eleanor hey eleanor who else you got a t-rex out here huh well it still holds up still holds up i can't believe it didn't wash more of the oh did you not lock the gate no stay in time i didn't clear us the lane though how about that i do like that you like it too it's nice huh the lane dad made us a little lane sneak route so we can sneak back out of here yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah i saw that it was weird yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah what is going on yeah that she's gotta move all the way over here yeah that's crazy yeah i saw that it was weird like the storm oh she ran eleanor into this She looks good. Yeah. Yeah. I'm not supposed to be wearing it today. I'm not going to be. I'm not going to be. I'm not going to be. I'm not going to be wearing it. Easy there, T-Rex. Well, I don't worry about, I like Big Bill and Eleanor together, but Eleanor goes somewhere else. And a cat died. That was last year, babe. Yeah, it was last year on the other video. Bullet, get in. Load up. Yes. It's very funny, actually. Bullet. Oh, jeez. Oh, my dog, jeez. Load up. You're going to stay. Stay. Great. She didn't come jumping in here and then. You're going to. This is a bad. But it's pretty interesting because that's what they probably do to wolves and coyotes, right? Oh, yeah, they do. They all gang up and they're not letting her anywhere near. Jackie's taking her somewhere. Well, we'll have to go get Maya. I want to give a big thank you to our sponsor today, AG1. So I do a lot of my video editing and taking care of everything early in the morning, social media wise. It's one of the first things that I do and something I do before I drink my cup of coffee as I start with AG1. Don't get me wrong. I love coffee. Coffee can sometimes lead to crashes in the afternoon. AG1 is going to fill in the gaps with whole food and nutrients that your body needs on a daily basis to keep me energized and going through the rest of the day. Or maybe I don't get so hangry in the afternoons or in the evenings. If so, if you start your day off with water or any type of juice, a little secret, you can add orange juice or pineapple juice with your AG1. It's pretty good. Get a scoop of AG1, throw it in there with your water or your juice before your coffee, which I highly suggest. Shake it up and you're set. Over 75 vitamins and minerals just in one scoop. As humans, we have to have a healthy bacteria in our gut. So what comes in your starter packet is the AG1 can, the pats, the pats, the pats, the pats, the pats, the pats, the pats, the pats, the pats, the pats, the pats, the pats, the pats, the pats, the pats, the pats, the pats, the pats, the pats, the pats, the pats, the pats. It also comes with a solid scoop to get all that goodness. It comes with a liquid vitamin supplement. And don't forget about your to-go packets. When you put the powder in your can, make sure you keep refrigerated. Just a little side tip right there. Get started with AG1 for less than $3 a day when you subscribe. Just head to the link in my description or scan the QR code. Or you can visit drinkag1.com. and order your ag one for less than a cup of coffee per day you just put the brakes on and stop grazing right there started grazing out there you know the handle with his tail up and everything what are you doing bullet i'm the dinosaur you are the dinosaur right now well since the big joe herd is out in the burn unit and this cover crop is growing so good and so crazy right now because the moisture we've had we decided to let our breeding bulls and some other bulls that we raised and we are selling for breed bulls so these are incoming two-year-old bulls including our knucklehead blackjack he'll join the big joe herd eventually again but this cover crop is doing so well we just let them in here and let them graze some of it meanwhile the chickens are hanging out so there's the hen i have to figure out how to get her back in and the panel moved wow we had quite the storm they moved this entire panel poor hen we got out some all right guys we're gonna try to move you there's the eggs dang it oh i got two turkey eggs guys i must have had a wild party what what are you doing in what are you doing in here oh gosh you do not belong in here okay there's the hen maybe she'll come around come around what you guys are going underneath it not not right now geez let's see if i can get this hen to come around these chickens get back don't want the whole group out this is gonna be challenging get let's get back keep coming in keep coming keep coming just a little bit take a lot of risk right here gobbler he can see it come on江パン what The developer's about to escape. Come on, hen. Make your way around. This is quite the challenge. Alright, so I'm going to set these eggs down right here. The gate just shut. Let's move this pin a little. I have to move this. I've got the wheels up. So nice. This thing rolls like it does. Chatter bugs. Alright, hen. We've got to get you back in here, girl. It's your family. There we go. Oh, there's another one. We've got to be easy. Look at you there. So I made a box for them a couple days ago. Let's see if I can. Let's open for her. She's hanging out with the chickens. Keep going around, hon. Just taking a risk. She wants to come back over here. Let me put these eggs back in here. Let me put these eggs back in here. Oh, looky there. Looky there. Looky there. Don't escape, please. Get out. Get out. Get out. Get out. Not real. Oh, dear. Oh, dear. Oh, dear. I'll put that there. Shoot, shoot, shoot, shoot. Yes hen is back in now what I want to do Is I gotta this needs to really be in that corner over there Since they're laying eggs now at least she's back in here Go ahead and get feed for them. So i'm assuming when I came up here first One of the wheels was lifted up on this must have got enough wind from the storms here recently To lift it up and she was able to Get underneath it and kind of escape like these chickens were coming in a while ago It's good underneath it. So when you lower these wheels See now it's completely flat the wind must have picked it up enough Now i've got it pushed up against this trailer right now Now it's completely level to the ground Must have happened but she's back in and this is so exciting. So the question is guys Do we let the hens They just keep laying them. I put a box in here and they keep laying the eggs Um, just out in the middle and so I don't know what to do. Um, I need some help here Do we go ahead and collect all these eggs and start the incubator? Do we do that? Or my intention was to let them naturally sit on these eggs once they had their clutches And would have them naturally and sit on them and turkeys take 28 days Uh to hatch compared to a chick Uh, which is 21 so need your help need your guidance We do have some incubators or do we let them have them naturally It's a chance. It's a risk. Whatever you do. It doesn't matter You're dealing with a wild turkey egg. I do know That it is hard to incubate i've heard that So anyways, you guys let us know what you think. So why don't we kept these guys for this right here We wanted to keep these three hands and four toms so that we could get lots of these right here We could hatch them out Raise them up till about three or four months old and then let them all go at the ponderosa We wanted a larger flock so that was the whole point of it Is right here and it's so Satisfying to see this And so exciting to see it as well Next stage Is probably incubation more than likely because the hens aren't setting I want to give a big thanks to ag1 for sponsoring today's video You guys can go to drink ag1.com slash cost timbers Or check the link in our description here. Thank you guys for watching this. We'll see you guys soon We're gonna keep on boston ranching and turkey ranching You