New Farmers - Choosing a Tractor for Your Farm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K6TauGx5mws
Education
 Hi, I'm Jason Lilly with the University of Maine Cooperative Extension and today we're going to be talking about considerations for choosing equipment for your farm. Choosing equipment can be a stressful task. Equipment's expensive, you may not know exactly what you're looking for, what you need. There's the consideration of new versus old, cheaper versus more expensive. It can also be exciting to choose the equipment that you need to get your homestead or your farm up and running. So in this video we're going to break down all those considerations. Making equipment choices that are most appropriate to your farm has many benefits. First off is ergonomics. So choosing appropriate equipment is going to make it easier to do that work on your body and therefore lead to fewer injuries. We're going to have increased efficiency so things will go faster and therefore you'll have less expenses and costs in labor. You will often get better end results. So if you're preparing raised beds, you'll get more uniform, smooth beds with the appropriate equipment. And lastly, having the appropriate equipment will make that work more enticing and therefore make it more likely that you'll get the job done in a timely fashion. Here are the key considerations to think about before making a purchase to make sure that you're maximizing your return on that investment. So the first consideration when you're thinking about your needs is how big is your working ground? And some of the categories that you might put yourself into include a small garden, which is anywhere from having a few raised beds up to maybe a thousand square feet. The next category is a large home garden, a thousand square feet to a half acre. And we have our market garden, a half acre to two acres. Our small farm is two acres to about five acres. A medium farm is five acres to 20 acres. And a large farm is 20 acres or more. The next consideration is what types of tools or equipment are you currently using? Do you have hand tools that you're using that you'd like to be more efficient with? Do you have tractor based implements that you'd like to improve and make your systems better? What tasks do you wish you could do more efficiently? Are there certain things that you feel are taking a long time and maybe in making some investments? You could improve the efficiency of doing those tasks. And lastly, what's the budget that you have to work with? How much capital do you have to put towards this investment? When you've identified the specific types of equipment that you're looking to purchase, here's some more considerations to think through before actually making the purchase. What size and power of equipment do you need to have everything aligned? So for example, a subsoiler is an implement that goes down deep into the soil and breaks up compaction. Each shank on a subsoiler requires about 25 horsepower to pull that efficiently with the tractor. So if you had a 35 horsepower tractor, you could only safely and efficiently pull one subsoiler shank. So that wouldn't be an efficient use of that tool. And therefore those two, you know, the tractor and the implement wouldn't align. If your tractor or equipment is too small for the task, it can lead to overworking that equipment, which can be dangerous. It can lead to more breakdowns, which are expensive. And it can lead to a shortened lifespan of the tractor or the equipment. If your tractor is oversized and is too large for what you're trying to accomplish, it can be really expensive to buy initially. It can lead to excessive fuel use and it can be heavier, which can cause more compaction and more harm to the soil and to your farm. So next, think about your budget again. What age of equipment, quality and condition of the equipment can you afford? So you want to think about new versus used equipment. And the first consideration when thinking about new versus used equipment is how comfortable are you with performing, you know, mechanical upkeep of the tractors. So with a new tractor, there's likely going to be a warranty. There might be a maintenance plan from the dealership where you buy that equipment. Whereas with used equipment, it's likely going to need more maintenance and you'll be responsible for doing the majority of that or for hiring it out and paying someone to do that maintenance for you. Additionally, the difference between new and older used equipment, the safety features that come as part of that. So newer equipment have much more safety features built into them. Whereas older equipment oftentimes are more dangerous to use because of that lack of safety equipment. And lastly, you want to think about the environmental impacts of the different equipment or implements that you might purchase. So for example, a rototiller does a nice job to prepare beds and to prepare the soil, but it is harsh on the soil. It breaks apart soil aggregates. So you might consider another implement or tool that has a similar end result, such as the Perfecta or the Estine Harrow. In the next video, I'll break down options and considerations when selecting hand tools, walk behind tractors and tractor based implements to make sure that you're increasing your efficiency, enhancing safety and maximizing your return on investment.