Building Resilience of Smallholder Farmers in Gambella Region of Ethiopia
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k7hYdQJ868E
Nonprofits & Activism
 Music The goal of this project is to build the resilience and livelihoods of smallholder farmers and these are both the refugees and host communities living in Kambela region. And we do this by working with smallholder farmers to increase their production, productivity and hence income. We are also working with them to increase their production and consumption of diverse crops so that we can prevent malnutrition in Kambela region. We also do this by linking smallholder farmers to the private sector led networks so that they can have access to inputs for their produce. We are doing this by working with the regional government of Kambela to build their capacity to be able to handle food security activities for both the refugees and smallholder farmers' host community members. Most of our farmers, almost more than 85% of our farmers, their farming system depends on the traditional method of farming. Because of this, what they produce is only for consumption. But after the introduction of this project, we have just tried to see our farmers not only for consumption but getting their products also to the market. The moisture level of our maize is 11.5. This means our maize is good and there is minimal risk for infection from aflatoxin and other moisture related contaminants that can get into the maize. And what I have seen here today is really amazing, more than expected. We have just tried to see what is on the ground and it is really very amazing. Post-harvest losses is a serious obstacle to smallholder farmers. Smallholder farmers are losing about 40% of their produce through post-harvest losses. From this we can see that we were already eating this maize. Do you see this? It is also a health safety risk and that's why it is important for WAP to intervene, working collaboratively with the NGO and government and other partners to address post-harvest losses. We are also working with aggregators so that they can off-take produce from smallholder farmers to reduce the cost of the harvest losses. We are also working with aggregators so that they can off-take produce from smallholder farmers to reduce the storage time. This is because we realized more smallholder farmers don't have. proper storage facilities in the home. So that they can sell to the market and they can also have to sell to the market and to the market. We are also working with aggregators so that they can off-take produce from smallholder farmers to reduce the storage time. This is because we realized more smallholder farmers don't have proper storage facilities in the home so that they can sell to the market and have income which is much easier to keep. So all this is a value added. We want to reach the level of the Ethiopian commodity standard. So one of the major components of this project is financial inclusion because our community have no culture of saving and they have no access to financial institutions. they don't get loan. So what we do is to start from informal groups that we call village saving and loan association. We establish them, then they save their own money. They practice to get loan and then pay it back. Then once they are well equipped, when they develop their skill, then we organize them into cooperatives where they can now be formal and they can access to financial service in the bank. Yes. But. Thank you very much for the division and the own number of fields that lead their ownaig are in the bank. The difference here in francs is a small group withji. They are already driving in the bank withji. Fleischmann is viable without lire and doesn't have the random funds around. The diante is customized withji. They are already reinvested using legalities that blow their own bank for the land. They are doing someподraph現在. But this is not good, the conditions of rent andHaul is very special. You give some great treatment, the water they can afford on eat. Then we take care, on the water they can settle at least in começ too. And we make sure they can have help us for a day. But this can be also burnt put them while the same. Then they grow some solid living house. This project is scaling up. We are targeting more farmers within Gambela region. We want more people to benefit and we are also increasing the value chains. The other aspect is that this is a model that WFP will scale up within Ethiopia because it is working. We are seeing value for money. We are seeing scale and impact and that's where we would like to focus.