Management Practices at the SHARE Farm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kDzDNhALMuI
Science & Technology
 So one of the nice things about the share farm is we have a lot of different comparisons. So one we want to take a look at is looking at recent no-till which would be one year into no-till with a cover crop compared to typical management for the area which would be chisel plow in the fall with field cultivator in the spring. Kaylee and I will take a look at how these soils vary under the two different management approaches. So we're going to take a look at the soil and how it has changed after one year of no-till with cover crops. And in this case we have live cereal rye growing. The shallow part of the soil has lots of roots growing in it which you can see they're actively drying out of the soil. Right now the soil is pretty dry. It's mid-May and we're planting. A little bit deeper in the soil profile we have some more moisture and you can see different aggregates forming. The soil is crumbling in my hands and leaving them fairly clean. That's something that we're always looking for when we look at soil health. Right around the rye roots the soil is very dry. So rye uses quite a bit of water in the spring which can be a good thing but it should also be monitored. These soils are typically managed with tillage to dry the soil out and warm it up in the spring. But that has an effect on how the soil looks and feels and also how much moisture it holds. So in comparison to what we saw over in the cover crop field the soil structure here is a little bit different. In the deeper parts of the soil there's more moisture currently being held. At the surface the soil is very hard and dry and the clods are really difficult to break apart with your hand. Deeper where there's more soil moisture the soil kind of smears instead of breaking apart into little rounded aggregates. In the tilled soil there aren't any roots like there are in the cover crop soil. It's amazing how after just one year we can see how much the soil has changed in response to reduced tillage and the addition of cover crops. Music Music