Coffee Farming - How to Start Your Own Business Coffee Farm - Most Profitable Businesses
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kGMjq_n8i04
Education
 Coffee farming is a very profitable business in the world. Once a coffee orchard is established, it can produce coffee beans for up to 55 to 60 years. Coffee is among the most popular drinks throughout the world. Coffee farming is a profitable business due to high demand and high prices in the market. Most profitable businesses coffee farming is very easy and simple. And it is also a great way to make good profits for a long time. So, it can be a great employment source for the people, especially for the unemployed people. Profitable businesses coffee production you can start small-scale by utilizing your family labor. Dear visitor, here we are trying to describe more information about starting and operating a successful coffee farming business from planting and harvesting. Coffee tree can be grown on a wide range of soil types. They can be grown on sandy loam soil with good organic matter to virgin soils on steep mountain slopes or almost flatlands. Coffee plants' ideal climatic conditions for growing are related to temperature and rainfall. Temperatures in the range of 23 degrees Celsius and 28 degrees Celsius with rainfall incidents in the range of 60 to 80 inches are ideal for best growth of the plants. If you are willing to start commercial coffee farming, then you should conduct soil testing. The ideal pH level of the land should be between 5.0 and 6.0 for maximum production. Before planting seedlings you must have to prepare the land very well by giving 4-5 plowing and harrowing to bring the soil to the fine-tilt stage. Try to add as much organic content as you can while preparing the land. Coffee crops are propagated by both seeds and cuttings. Selection of quality seeds and cutting is very important in the coffee farming business. You should select high-yielding and disease-free quality cuttings in vegetative propagation. 6-7 months old seedlings having about 20-25 cm in height should be transported and transplanted in the main field. Planting method and distance vary from variety to variety and it mainly depends on topography and soil fertility. Generally, 2-Mx3M spacing is followed for coffee arabica, and 3-Mx3M is followed for coffee robusta. Straight-row planting with an east-to-west orientation is the preferred layout for growing coffee plants. The coffee plants are usually planted during the spring season or just before the rainy season as this crop requires moist soil conditions and a cool climate for better establishment and growth. Prepare the pits before transplanting the seedlings. It will be better if you dig the pit 3 months before transplanting the seedlings in the main field. Regular care involves watering, pruning, and pest control. The time period between blooming and maturing of the fruit varies appreciably with the variety and the climate, for the arabica, it is about 7 months, and for the robusta, about 9 months. So here we haveji left to