Farm Management Software Tools About Manage the Farm .com
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kHyVoqhw38c
Science & Technology
 Hi, my name is Jay Shopper. I'm the founder and president of managethefarm.com, based out of Minotrista, Minnesota. And it's a web-based procurement system that we used on our apple orchard operation in the Twin Cities. We use it in our operation. Now it's recently changed since I got a smartphone, so now I can be in the field, in the orchard, anywhere really, and upkeep my input needs. So I pull up managethefarm.com and I look into a crop plan and I need more chemicals, I need some seed, I need some services, I add that to the crop plan. Once it's on the crop plan, you can aggregate it with other crop plans and other farm operations and you can send it at any dealer that you want. It works via email. So the dealer will receive a click-through in the body of the email and they'll go to manage the farm. And put in their pricing for both inputs and services and then click submit. Since we launched managethefarm.com, we have over 300 dealers that are registered. And dealers like to receive, you know, 40, 50 farms in one order. It's very easy to price, it's very quick. And what we found is it's the relationship between the farmer and the dealer that matters. It's, you know, not everybody is driven by price. So this is just something that will help extend the relationship of the value between, you know, the dealer and the farmer. And it gives more time for the dealer to give, you know, their input into how, what's going on with their field. And get the transaction and the what, where and when out of the way. The customer that we have in Northwest Iowa is Stockup Ag Service. And, you know, they're managing about 45, 50 farms using this platform. And they've found that it does save them a lot of time. Because they can just flip, you know, the 07 crop plan into the 09 year. Because they do rotate their crops. And it just gets the planning, you know, jumpstart on the planning. And then they do aggregate. And that, of course, saves, you know, up to 10% on your input services. And that isn't something that I think is indicative of software. That happens even if you're doing it through the fax or the phone. It's just that it's easier. You can roll it up. You can roll it down. All the fulfillment is kept straight. And you don't have to repeat yourself. You know, you just have to just click. And it just goes out to your dealer. And then they can price it. You know, the first year, it would save you time. But I think that that would kick in in years 2, 3, and 4. Where you can cut down your planning by 80%. And for more information, you can check us out online at mattersfarm.com.