3 Grazing management tips to help you reduce soil erosion on your farm for sustainable outcomes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KIBAqLxs1_U
People & Blogs
 Grazing is a double-edged sword. If managed well, it can benefit your pasture, but if not managed well, it can damage your soil because poor grazing management leads to overgrazing and overgrazing can in turn destroy soil ecology and trigger soil erosion. Hi, I'm Oliver from pasture.io and today we're going to talk about three things you can do to reduce soil damage due to grazing on your farm. And remember, if you find this video interesting, don't forget to hit that thumbs up and in support of our channel and tap that subscribe button and share it with your fellow farmers. Number one, maintain at least 70% of ground cover. This is the single biggest thing you can do to prevent soil erosion and degradation. Did you know a 70% ground cover can reduce your soil erosion and water runoff by over 90%. That's right, a 90% improvement. But how do you maintain 70% ground cover when you have animals waiting to graze pasture? Glad you asked. So that brings us to number two, practice rotational grazing. Like children choosing ice cream over salad. Cows too can be picky eaters when presented with a wide variety of grass species. So instead of allowing your cows to eat what they want to eat from wherever, you give them access to only a small paddock. Hunger and competition will force them to eat everything uniformly, but more importantly, you'll be able to control when your cows enter and exit which paddock. This means that you'll have more control over grazing events and that you'll be able to maintain post grazing pasture residuals. This practice is a neat way to balance the grazing needs of your herd and the ground cover needs of your soil. But more often than not, rotational grazing alone can't help you maintain adequate grass cover. Timing is equally important so you'll also need to ensure ideal rotation periods. And now for number three, choose rotation periods based on how well your grass is growing. As you know, your grass growth will depend on factors such as moisture levels, soil fertility, grazing patterns and your local season. The most productive graziers are always on top of their grass growth. Therefore they constantly measure grass and strive to make more effective grazing and pasture management decisions. I know what you're thinking. Your eyes are rolling all over and you're saying, yeah sure, but measuring pastures frequently ain't so easy. I hear you. I grew up on a third generation dairy farm. The same farm that I'm filming this video on right now. So I know how painful, tiresome and costly measuring your pastures can be. And that's why I started Pasture.io to help farmers like you measure pasture growth rates automatically and without any manual effort at a marginal per hectare cost. So it's time to throw out the, it's too time consuming and costly excuse and it's time to start measuring pasture growth rates the smart way. Check out Pasture.io. That wraps up the three most important things you can do to prevent soil damage due to grazing. And to summarize quickly, maintain that ground cover, practice rotational grazing and set an appropriate grazing rotation speed. I hope you enjoyed this video. And if you did, don't forget to hit that thumbs up and subscribe button and share it with your fellow farmers. Until we meet again, happy farming.