Commercial Maize Farming in Nigeria for Beginners 2024
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kjpyR-mwFWk
Education
 This is the most detailed tutorial on maize farming you have ever seen. In fact, you will learn every single piece of information you need to know before starting a commercial maize farm in Nigeria, starting with the basics. But is maize farming profitable to start as a business in Nigeria? Well, according to research, Nigeria is the second largest maize producing country in Africa. And Nigeria alone produces almost half of all maize produced in West Africa. Though the yield of maize has increased from 2 to 4 tons per hectare in the past few years, demand for the crop still remains higher than supply. Which means that there is still a huge opportunity for farmers to invest in this business. However, don't forget that most small-scale and local farmers face a serious challenge when it comes to profitability. In fact, more than 70% of small-scale farmers have poor yields and are unable to assess premium markets. And so in my next video, I will show you the easiest ways to get companies to buy your maize and get better prices. Subscribe to this channel right now so you don't miss that one when I upload it. Now, before we start talking about the best practices for starting a profitable maize farm, here is how much money you will need to start maize farming business in Nigeria today. Let's say you have one acre of land for your business. Land preparation will cost you up to 80,000 Naira today. This cost will only come if you will have to hire a tractor to do the plowing for you. Most farmers avoid this cost by employing some manual strategies to prepare the soil. However, that also comes with additional hard work. Buying seeds will cost you about 25,000 Naira depending on the type of seed you want. And if you are wondering what type of seed you should buy, I will tell you the best seeds to buy in a bit. Sourcing fertilizers for your farm will probably be the most expensive aspect. For one acre plot of land, you will probably need two bags each of NPK and Urea. And this can cost up to 120,000 Naira. But again, I will tell you why you shouldn't spend this much on fertilizers in a bit. The next is We Decide. We Decide will cost you a maximum of 20,000 Naira today. Labor might also bring in some cost, especially if you are unable to handle the farm all by yourself. That can cost up to 50,000 Naira also. And finally, if you are doing this in a dry season, you might also consider irrigation. And this can cost up to 150,000 Naira. Using this as a rough estimate, you would need a total of 445,000 Naira to start this business. Looking at the current yield and price per kilogram of maize in Nigeria, An acre farm can produce about 3,500 kilograms of maize. And selling this at an average price of 452 Naira per kilogram, your one acre farm can make you a revenue of over 1.5 million Naira with a profit margin of roughly 70%, which is a very, very good investment. In fact, it literally means that you can invest 445,000 Naira in maize production and make over 1.5 million Naira in the next 3 to 4 months. If you have your investment at hand before starting your project, it's better. However, you can sell stats and then figure it out along. Here is how to start a commercial maize farming business to make profits. The first step in maize farming in general is to acquire the best piece of land for your maize cultivation. How large the size of land should be depends on you, but I recommend getting a large piece of land if you really mean business. However, if you only have a small piece of land, it shouldn't stop you from doing something. Preferably, get a deep, fine, structured, well-aerated, well-drained, loamy soil type of land that are rich in organic matter. This is proving to give the highest yield from maize plantations. Okay, choosing the land isn't difficult at all. Once you have settled on a land, it's time to start preparing the land for cultivation. The biggest mistake people keep doing in their farms is they jump straight to planting whatever they want to plant without preparing the soil first. The well-being of your crop greatly depends on the conditions under which they are cultivated. Taking one to two weeks to prepare the soil will go a long way to enhance the yield and health of your crops. And the most obvious question is, how do you actually prepare the soil? Well, it's simple. Remember, I spoke of the recommended soil requirements for maize. A deep, fine, structured, well-aerated, well-drained, loamy soil. By soil preparation, this is what you want to achieve. Start by tilling the soil. This makes the soil loose and become fine-structured, well-aerated, and well-drained. And this ensures better growth and development of the seed into a mature plant. If it is not raining often during the time of cultivation, you should probably consider irrigating the soil for about one to two weeks before sowing the seeds. Remember, regardless of the soil type and the land you secure for your business, you should go through these same preparation stages. And once this is done, you should go ahead and choose your preferred seed type. Two main types of seeds are grown in Nigeria, the hybrid and the local seeds or OPV. And there are hundreds of improved varieties of hybrid seeds that you can buy in Nigeria. If you mean business, then I would suggest you go with a hybrid seed, mainly because it has been genetically modified to give the best yield in Nigeria, and it is drought tolerant also. Which literally means that it can still thrive in the midst of our weird and unpredicted weather. The hybrid seeds cost around 2,500 naira per kilogram. And you would need to buy about 10 kilograms for an ecaplot, costing you a total of 25,000 naira. If you are going with a hybrid seed stool, you should never recycle the seeds, and new seeds should be obtained each year. I keep saying this a lot. The reason is that these seeds are manufactured such that, after you cultivate and harvest, you can't grow the seeds again. If you do, the seeds will rot in the soil, or will germinate by canal growth, period. It looks like it's a deliberate strategy by the companies to make sure that you keep buying their seeds. But, you didn't hear that from me? Alright, cool, let's go ahead. Once your seeds are ready and your land is prepared, here is how to sow your seeds the right way to get the maximum germination rate. Plant maize seeds at a depth of 1.5 to 2 inches in the soil. Optimal plant density varies, but it is generally recommended to plant about 18,000 to 30,000 plants per acre, depending on the specific maize variety. Remember, maize is a warm season crop. Plant the seeds when the soil temperature reaches at least 50 degrees Fahrenheit, or 10 centigrade, for proper germination. The best temperature for germination is 75 degrees Fahrenheit, or 24 degrees Celsius. The population of maize plants on a piece of land is also an important determiner of the plant's health. Adequate road spacing is essential for proper air circulation and sunlight exposure. The recommended spacing is typically between 30 to 40 inches. And with that said, let's talk about one of the most important aspects of maize farming that you should probably know if you want to make a difference. You can't succeed in maize farming business today if you don't know about effective weed and pest control techniques. The fall lameu worm is your greatest enemy in maize farming business. This pest can cause you a loss of more than 50% in your business. In fact, research has found that fall lameu worm in Nigeria has reduced the yield of maize by over 40%. Fall lameu worm is a polyfargus and highly mobile migratory insect pest that was first detected in West Africa in early 2016. And since its introduction, this insect has significantly impacted livelihoods of small-scale farmers across the African peninsula. You can actually plant like 20 acres of land in Nigeria and get just half of it at the end because of these devils. It is possible to control them, but very expensive. Here is how you do it. After 4 weeks of germination, start visiting your farm frequently and look for signs of infestation. Here are some of the signs you should look for. Number 1, a white matter on the leaves. That's their eggs. Number 2, you should look for pin holes or windowpane leaf damage. This is caused by small caterpillars feeding on the leaves. And also, you should look for droppings. That's a big red flag. If you find this on your farm, most of the times, it's already been infested too much. Now, during scouting, focus on the newest 2 or 3 leaves emerging from the funnel, as this is where caterpillars like to feed and where moths lay eggs. Once you see a few plants infested, there are 3 classes of pesticides that are proven to be very effective against fall amulware. And the first group is spinosyme. This class of insecticide work by disrupting the nicotinic acetaculene receptors of the insect's nervous system. This mechanism of action makes this class of insecticide very selective in destroying the target insect and leaving the beneficial predators. This is very helpful, as it doesn't kill all the microorganisms in the soil as part of the target insect. Spinosyme does not destroy only mature insects, but also their larva and eggs. Some examples of this class of insecticide are Entrust and Success New. We also have the Imamectin Benzoids. It works by penetrating the leaf tissue and forming reservoir within treated leaves, which provide residual activity against pests that ingest the plant's substance when feeding. Examples of Imamectin Benzoids you can use to control fall amulwem are Affirm and Proclaim. The last class of insecticide I personally find effective against fall amulwem is the Chlorantranilipro group. Chlorantranilipro binds to a specific receptor in the muscles called the ryanodine receptor. When the chemical binds to this receptor, it causes muscle cells to leak calcium. The muscles stop working normally, the insect is paralyzed and dies. Some examples of this group are Alta-Col and Chlorantranilipro. Once you have your insecticide figured out, spray your farm at least once in three weeks, depending on the particular insecticide you get. This is essential because fall amulwem is very persistent and migrates so quickly from farm to farm. For instance, if you treat your farm and there is a nearby farm that is infested, well expect to see your farm infested again as soon as the chemical loses its power. And this is why you need to keep treating your farm until the plant starts to soak. At this stage, if your farm isn't heavily infested, the plant will be healthy until you harvest, even without additional treatments. Mace takes about 12 to 16 weeks to reach maturity. Hence, you may need to spray the farm at least three times in three weeks interval, depending on how persistent your farm gets infested. Note that I am unable to recommend any dosage of any of the chemicals since I do not know what specific agrochemical you will get. I advise that you use it as prescribed by the chemist at the shop you buy it. Now, with weed control, if your farm can be weeded manually, that's the perfect solution as you would not need to worry about the effects of herbicides on your farm. However, if that is not possible in your case, depending on the size of your farm, you may still have options like post-emergence herbicides. The last thing you would want to do is sow your seeds, let it germinate, and ignore it to stay in the bushes. Corn hates weeds as it suppresses its growth and health. Weeds in your farm will also bring in several pets to make sure that your hard work is ruined. So, weigh your options. If labor costs for weeding will be too much in your situation, consider using a pre-emergence herbicide on a piece of land before sowing your seeds to prevent germinated wheat seedlings from becoming established. Also, consider using post-emergence herbicides to control weeds in your farm after they have already emerged from the soil. There are post-emergence herbicides specifically made for maize and other narrow-leaved crops. Designed to target and destroy both grasses and broad-leaved weeds, leaving all narrow-leaved plants healthy. Some examples of these herbicides are nickel gold, emine spray, and mason. But even if you have gotten every single piece of information I've said in this video so far and missed this one thing, you've missed it all. And that is fertilization. Very, very important. This is the only way you can use fertilizers in maize farming in Nigeria and still make profits off of it today. If you didn't know, several studies have proven that maize farming and fertilizers are not a profitable mix in Nigeria. Here are the two reasons. Number one, maize has a low yield response to nitrogen in Nigeria. And number two, high acquisition cost of fertilizers. The cost of fertilizers is so high that it accounts for almost half of all the cost involved in maize production. However, it doesn't seem to even impact your yield in any significant way. So, I have come up with this fertilization strategy to cut down the cost of fertilizers and at the same time achieve a better yield and crop health. Here's the deal. Do not buy a separate starter fertilizer. At the early stages of the plant growth, maize needs so little to no nitrogen and can do just okay with the natural soil. Wait until the fourth to fifth week after germination and buy NPK fertilizer with a higher nitrogen content. At this stage, maize plants start to need nitrogen in large amounts. Therefore, buying this fertilizer at this stage will be a wise use of the resources. By doing this, you have cut the cost of fertilizers by 50% as you would not need to buy both NPK and urea. However, if you have the money and you would want to try the normal way of applying fertilizers to see how your crops respond to it, I have made a complete tutorial on how to fertilize maize farms the right way and I've included the link in the description box below. But if you can do all of these things effectively, it boils down to one thing, effective planning. Watch this video on how to write and execute a business plan for your maize farm step by step.