Jonathan Foley On How Farmers Can Adapt to Climate Change
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kU6305BlV80
News & Politics
 Well, we're seeing the effects of climate change hitting agriculture already. Partly it's because it's getting hotter in the summer times in some places, causing kind of heat stress on plants. Other times it's actually maybe benefiting agriculture a little bit because the growing seasons are getting longer in our northern climates, so that some places might actually see some benefits. But in most places what we're seeing is moisture, like not enough rain, too much evaporation, and so there's more droughts in some parts of the world. So this whole mixed bag of heat and drought and maybe too much rain or a little bit more warmth is playing out in different ways all over the planet. But the overall situation is one that climate change on net seems to be causing a reduction in how much food we have available. If this is how the yields of the world's food were supposed to go, this is what climate change did. It dropped it a little bit. And this is just the early kind of canary in the coal mine of climate change, just the beginning days of this. In the future, climate change could have a pretty significant impact on how much food we actually have on the planet to eat. We're going to have to get really good at adapting to climate change with farming. We're going to have to do things like develop new crop varieties that can withstand drought and heat better. We're going to have to maybe switch some of the crops we grow. Maybe we need more diversity of crops, too, so that if there is an unexpected weather disaster, it isn't just one crop in our field, it's maybe 10. So we don't lose 100% of our crop. We lose one part of it, not all. There are lots of things that farmers can do, and farmers are really smart and very innovative. And they're coming up with all sorts of ideas all the time. The bad news is we're just seeing the tip of the iceberg on climate change. We've got a lot more situation to go into. And that's going to be very disruptive, and our ability to adapt might eventually hit a wall. There's, you know, at a certain point when you're out of water, you can't do anything. Or if it's too hot and the plant actually just dies, there's not much you can do about that. So adaptation to climate change could carry us a long way, but the real solution is to prevent major climate changes in the future. So we need to do both. Adapt to what we have now, and long-term, make sure we don't get into major disruptive climate change, which won't be good for anybody.