BEST CHICKENS FOR LAYING EGGS.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KUp3uDHMWxo
Science & Technology
 Welcome to Agriculture Academy. If you like our videos remember to like and subscribe. So you want to rear egg laying chickens, but which breed is best for you? With the wide variety of species out there to choose from, you will need to do your research to find the best chicken to suit your needs. Agriculture Academy has done the hard work for you in this video, 10 of the best egg laying chickens. Golden Comet. If brown eggs are your idea of perfection then the Golden Comets are the breed for you. They begin laying eggs at 15 weeks and can yield up to 300 eggs a year. Their docile nature also makes them the ideal garden pet. Australorp. As the honorary national bird of Australia the Australorp chicken has numerous advantages. This breed has a good laying capacity of about 250 brown colored eggs per year, beginning when the hens are 22 weeks old. These hens tend to be unwelcoming to other chicken breeds, so be sure to rear them in their own enclosures. Speckled Sussex. These hens have one of the heaviest laying capacities in excess of 250 light brown eggs per year. Surprisingly, with an average weight of 3.5 kilograms, they don't need too large an area to forage in. White Leghorn. Laying large white eggs in the range of 280 per year's the White Leghorn chicken is best suited to coo rearing. They can be rather high maintenance though so be sure to keep them well fed, hydrated and warm. Amaraukana. Also known as the Easter Egg Chicken, this breed lays delightful multicolored eggs. They are fairly easy to rearing coos due to their tolerance for a range of climates. You can expect about 250 eggs per year starting at the age of 25 weeks. Common brown classic. One of the most popular breeds worldwide, these hens can lay over 300 large brown eggs per year. With their small 2 kilograms bodies, they require far less sustenance compared to some of the larger breeds. Rhode Island Red. With their great adaptability to a range of environments, the Rhode Island Reds are ideal for small-scale farming. Whilst they tend to be ill-tempered, their disease-resistant hens and laying capacity of up to 250 medium size, brown eggs per year makes up for their bad manners. Marins are French native, Marins chickens have a striking plumage. With the potential to produce over 200 dark brown eggs per year, the Marins are definitely a breed worth considering. Barred Plymouth Rock. Ideal for free-range conditions these hens have a high laying capacity of up to 280 brown eggs per year. Their tranquil nature allows them to integrate well with other breeds. Golden-laced Wyandottes. With their decent laying potential of up to 200 good-sized, brown eggs per year, these hens are perfectly suited to free-range conditions due to their excellent foraging capabilities. They tend to become broody and can therefore produce enough chicks to sustain and grow your flock. We hope you have enjoyed the video remember to like and subscribe, till next time.