Tilmor 520 Tractor Operations Overview - Pre-Check Process
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KvLA_jXwJyI
Autos & Vehicles
 Welcome to Tillmore. My name is Liddell Steiner and today I'll be providing an overview of the pre-check process of your Tillmore 520 series tractor. Tillmore always recommends that you read and fully understand the operator's manual before attempting to operate your Tillmore equipment. For the safety of the operator and the longevity of the machine, a daily pre-check should be performed prior to using the tractor each day. Always set the parking brake, shut off the tractor's engine, remove the ignition key and ensure all moving parts have come to a complete stop before inspecting components or attempting any repair or adjustment. Park the tractor on a level surface with the engine off and all fluids cold. Perform a visual inspection of the tractor. Look for loose or missing hardware, damaged components or signs of wear. Inspect the ROPS or rollover protection system structure and seat belt for damage or signs of wear. Ensure the parking brake tension is properly adjusted. Inspect the hydraulic hoses, hydraulic fittings and fuel lines to ensure tight leak-free connections. Inspect all the belts for damage or excessive wear. Replace the belts as required. Check the tractor's engine oil level, hydraulic oil level, coolant level and fuel level. Add fluid or service as required. Ensure the radiator screen if equipped. The air cleaner and engine compartment are clean. Check the tires for proper inflation. Test the operator safety interlock system. The safety interlock system is available in the operator's manual. All of these daily checks can be found on a decal conveniently located on the seat riser of your tractor or outlined in detail in your operator's manual. Other periodic maintenance procedures are covered in the operator's manual and should be performed on a regular schedule. Two good management tools are to schedule maintenance of your equipment at regular intervals and to train operators to perform the daily tasks. This will ensure that the equipment will perform to its best potential efficiently and effectively. Thank you.