Farm Life Showdown: Meredith Bernard 'The Farm Wife' vs. 'Acre Homestead'
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kvpJzo2y0b4
People & Blogs
 Meredith didn't grow up on a farm but found her love of agriculture in a different way. In college, she worked with livestock and then went on to a career in feed sales throughout the state of North Carolina. Videos depicting homesteading have seen a rise in popularity over the past few years. One of the things that I enjoy most about viewing homesteading videos on YouTube is that, in contrast to seeing individuals, on television reality S. House, we have the opportunity to interact with the channel's hosts via the comment section, email, and in-person get-togethers, all while gaining valuable knowledge and having a good time. There are a lot of YouTube channels that are particularly successful in this field and offer excellent content. The Farm Wife and Acre Homestead are two well-known names in the homesteading channel community, and in today's video, I'm going to compare and contrast the two channels. If you watch this movie all the way through to the conclusion, you will find out which of these two channels is the superior option. But before we get into the comparison part, let's find out a few details about each of these channels first. Becky has been uploading videos to her YouTube account for more than two years. Her videos often focus on the activities she enjoys doing in her own time, such as gardening and cooking. She and her husband, Josh, live together and the two of them are expecting their first child together very soon. She is able to produce amazing and helpful material, possesses an endearing personality, and lives the life of her dreams by being financially independent and assisting others in doing the same. In her cooking videos, she not only guides us through the entire process, but also provides tips on how to properly preserve food in order to increase its longevity. In addition to that, she publishes written recipes on her website. She is approachable to her followers and gives simple recommendations. She grows a vast range of foodstuffs, from potatoes and tomatoes to strawberries and figs and everything in between. She employs the fewest possible resources while still managing to generate an abundant amount of food. Believe me when I say that this woman has the ability to make even the most unappetizing ingredients into a delectable meal. She shows us that we are able to prepare any type of food in the comfort of our own homes by just choosing organic components to put in the recipe. Let's not waste any more time and jump straight into the competition so we can see who comes out on talk. The Farm Wife YouTube channel had approximately 47 million views and a total of 119,000 subscribers as of the month of November. During the course of its life, the channel has been seen approximately 47 million times. Acre Homestead, on the other hand, has collected around 56 million views throughout the course of its existence and currently has a total of 394,000 subscribers. Because of their superior channel statistics, Acre Homestead emerges victorious from this battle. The Farm Wife YouTube channel brings in over $80,000 worth of revenue each year, whereas the Acre Homestead channel brings in approximately $230,000 each year. That is approximately three times as many viewers as the Farm Wife channel has. Acre Homestead was victorious in this round as well. The YouTube channel known as Farm Wife was launched in 2017, whereas the Acre Homestead channel didn't appear online until the year 2020. Acre Homestead has achieved enormous channel growth in only half the amount of time as that of the Farm Wife and currently has almost twice as many subscribers. Acre Homestead was victorious in this round as well. Acre Homestead now has roughly 339 videos uploaded to its YouTube channel, whereas the Farm Wife's channel currently has approximately 456 videos uploaded. Meredith is the victor in this round because she garnered an overwhelming majority of votes. The vast majority of the information that can be found on Meredith's channel is centered on her cattle ranch and the solutions that she recommends for problems that may emerge there. But Becky's writing covers a wide range of topics of interest.