Agricultural Biodiversity
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KWfDoc-g6GI
Nonprofits & Activism
 Good evening everyone. It's really a delight for me to be here. I've been working with the communities and the winners of the Equator Prize now since the very beginning. It's been an exciting part of our work program and I'm proud to be a sponsor of the Equator Initiative. As I think all of you know, farming is the most important livelihood of most of the rural people in the tropics. And also some of the most important biodiversity in the world is found in these very same landscapes where these folks are working. In our conservation organizations, in our agricultural organizations, we may separate these things, but people in local communities don't. That was a point David Currier was making earlier today. They don't have that separation. And if we really look around the world, it's farmers that are the principal stewards of all of that biodiversity that's outside of protected areas and even some of the biodiversity that's inside of those. So it's more important than ever to recognize those farming communities that are finding ways to increase agricultural production, make it more biodiverse, utilize our resources of agricultural biodiversity, and at the same time conserving the biodiversity of nature. We've seen some amazing things happen in some of the places where past Equator Prize initiative farmer organizations have been working. Two of the folks who were up here speaking earlier didn't talk about their own work, but Donato, who's been working in the Philippines, have been working in traditional biodiverse productive agricultural systems and have been working since they won the prize with collaborators to expand that work elsewhere in the Philippines. Benson, who's been working in Talamanca, has been working to share knowledge of the amazing cacao production agroforest systems they've been working on with colleagues in Panama. The work that they've all been doing with community knowledge sharing is really exciting and I think really has the potential to transform the way we think about doing agriculture in these high biodiversity parts of the tropics. So it's very much my pleasure to give this award. The winner is the Union of Farming and Indigenous Organizations of Cotacachi, Ecuador. Felicidades! The winner is the winner of the title of the human population. This was a great surprise to me because I've actually seen this project in action a couple of years ago. Here's the guys. Thank you.