Corn School: Planting Depth Lessons
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kyKNrjMjmIU
People & Blogs
 Corn School is brought to you by BASF and Pride Seeds. Peter Johnson at Wheat Pete, RealAgriculture.com and in a corn crop and guess what? I was wrong. Now I can't say I love being wrong. I can't say that but my dad always said you learn so much more when actually he said you learn more when you're wrong than when you're right. If you're right you learn nothing. When you're wrong man you'll learn something. So I learned something and you know what I learned? I learned that planting deep with corn actually makes more yield. How can that be? It makes no sense but we look at these cobs and so what we've learned about corn is that uniform emergence is way more important than a picket fence stand. We know that so if I don't if I have two cobs that I get a bigger gap I get these cobs farther apart how much yield do I lose? Less than one percent. So do I lose something if I don't have a cob every six inches? Yes I do but it's not a big deal and if you take one cob that loses less than one percent you put that over the whole field yeah the yield loss is pretty doggone small. Hard to spend much money to make that but if I on the other hand I take those plants and I don't get them to emerge uniformly so this one emerges on day one and this one emerges on day three well guess what on day three this one is 12 percent lower yielding than this one even if I'm one day it's six percent lower yield. We were astounded by those numbers Shane and my technician and I did that work and wow it was just blew our brains out and so then you say okay so I have good moisture at two inches I'm going to plant my corn at two inches because I'm a weak guy and it's all about how quick I can get that crop out of the ground the earlier it gets out of the ground the earlier it flowers the earlier it flowers the higher the yield. Well that's true except that when I plant it two inches what we found is I get more variability in that corn emergence so yeah I plant it two inches versus two and a half or three inches and I'm emerging a day earlier so absolutely I get some plants up a day earlier but the problem is I get a few plants up a day earlier I get a bunch more plants up a day later and more the next day but I my window of emergence actually spreads out so even though that two inch depth seems right I get more variability in that emergence and that variability in emergence actually lowers yield astounding to me so if we deepen our corn planting depth we delay emergence so be careful with that if I plant in Ontario on the 20th of April and I get five weeks of cold backward weather and I plant three inches deep yeah none of it may emerge right so so there is a risk but when I plant three inches deep into decent conditions I my emergence starts one day later but on day one I get a much bigger chunk of that corn to emerge on day two almost everything else emerges and so I narrow that window of emergence so even though I delay it because everything comes up at the same time I actually increase yields so wow I mean certainly you get to day five you get cobs like this yeah you better you better try hard not to have really late emergers because they hurt you for sure but this planting depth thing I couldn't believe what we found out this year and and really comes back to doing the flag test and figuring out how important that uniform emergence is all the old work said that emergence uniformity was more important this just is a management technique that helps us improve that uniform emergence and it is not the the recommendation that I would have made until we learned this stuff very very cool stuff if you can if it looks like a good weather forecast we're going to plant corn deeper and that just it boggles my brain but that's where we're at peter johnson at wheat pete real agriculture.com