This Invented Machine Surprises Even Farmers - Incredible Ingenious Agricultural Inventions
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kzxzAFT_Uog
Science & Technology
 Hi everybody! Technology and inventions used in agriculture make things much easier. It also saves time. Now smart farmers are using new techniques in farming. Some of the machines used are simple but incredibly functional. In this video we talk about agricultural inventions and incredible techniques. You may be seeing some of these for the first time. Please subscribe to our channel and like the video. Sisal Fiber Production Sisal is a type of plant used in textiles thanks to the durable fiber it contains. 85% of the sisal plant is water. It is processed with this machine and sisal fiber is produced. 6. Stone Crusher With this CEPI stone crusher you can do so many things. For example, break rocks, stabilize soil, and recycle paving materials into solid road base. This machine has a very powerful transmission and additional braking bars.inky fun Mechanical Pruning Pruning trees such as larch, spruce, alder, and pine is very easy with this machine. It can prune up to 12 to 15 meters. Higher efficiency can be achieved compared to manual pruning. Wood Cutter This machine with a 14-horsepower diesel engine is perfect for chopping firewood. Cuts wood into lengths of 120 to 180 millimeters. This machine reduces labor force considerably and provides convenience. Mini Rice Harvester This multifunctional combine can be worked in small fields, mountainous terrain, and hills. I think this is the most practical and fun way to harvest rice. Tillage Machine This machine with 6-horsepower diesel engine is multifunctional. Here it is used to prepare the soil for planting. As you can see, it can work on its own on the same route. Clicking Traffic Now Compost turner This machine you see is a compost turner. It has an 8-foot working width, designed to be pulled by a small 40-horsepower tractor. Almond Harvest with Tree Shaking Machine The machine shakes the almond trees so that the almonds fall. Thus, harvesting becomes easier. Liquid Fertilizer Machine One of their Breelmayer motor mowers is used for distribution. This is Liquid Fertilizer Distribution. Liquid Fertilizer Stacking Double Bail Grapple Stacking Bails is hard work. However, thanks to the offset feature of Claw 2.0, this is very easy and safe. You can even stack the top pack by sliding it forward. Ja port's Lei up for more than three inches. Nice, where are you? This is independent from the controller the one. You can only secure the mixer is good for the two laps. Anyway you talk to Cardano. Thank you. Thank you.