Harnessing innovations for food security to improve livelihoods
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l14AKz8o9G0
Science & Technology
 In the site meeting I was in, the main message was who will be the spokesperson, who is this trusted messenger who will drive the innovation platform. And what was clear was that we may be sidelined, traditional leaders, we have not looked at non-scientists, non-technocrats, and we should be focusing more on empowering them with the scientific evidence, because they live in these basins, they are the ones who are affected by these problems, and they should be given capacity to inform policy processes. That's where sustainability will come from. African institutions are weak. They are weak because we have not invested in research. There is still very little appreciation of the role that research plays in development. And for as long as our researchers are sitting idle with no resources, they are doing their research in a closet within the station and not getting out to the farmers, there is no way that we are going to help Africa feed itself. So I think the starting point is a call on the government. Can we use African money to invest in African research institutions? That way we will have researchers who can follow the development agenda. We have policies that cannot be implemented because they are created bottom-down. We want policies that are created bottom-up, where the evidence comes from practitioners, but it's packaged such that it can feed directly into policy. And I think that's what the innovation platforms have built. A new way of doing business, where you don't stop at project level, but you move vertically to inform change at a higher level, district, national, and regional level, so that we have policies that serve the people. What is the innovation platform? It's exciting because the innovation platform is about keeping all the actors to be drivers of change. But we are saying this change has to be led through evidence and evidence that emanates from research. So when we are talking about impact and outcomes, the change starts from those who are affected by the problem being around the table, and those who want to experiment, research, and deliver options for development, sitting with equal partners. And that's what the new CGS are.