Unknown Title
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l76D4oOTbHk
Unknown Category
 Introducing the Little Green Seeding Machine. This tool can help you seed your Mike Greens up to 300 trays per hour. With all this extra free time you'll have, you can spend it growing the business with sales and production, or you can spend more time with family and friends and less time on the farm. The Little Green Seeding Machine works with all of the most common Mike Greens varieties, including pea, sunflower, radish, brassicas, mustards, amaranth, basil, and so many more. This tool seeds much more evenly than hand seeding, reducing disease risk while also increasing the uniformity of your crops, and do it twice as fast. Pre-order your Little Green Seeding Machine today and join the Mike Greens revolution. The Little Green Seeding Machine Hey guys, today I'm at Greenbelt Organics in Ontario, Canada. This has got to be the most automated farm I've ever seen. There is so much technology here, so much innovation, it's so so cool how robotic and automated this farm is. And on top of that, the high quality of product they're growing. They're really focused on soil nutrition, it's a completely certified organic operation, and most importantly, Ian is one of my inspirations for starting Living Earth Farm. Seeing him grow Mike Greens in his past business and seeing how high quality that product was really inspired me in the methodology I used in Living Earth Farm. So I'm really excited for you guys to meet Ian and excited to show you this really cool facility here at Greenbelt Organics. Hey Ian, thanks so much for having me at Greenbelt Organics. It is crazy how massive the scale of this greenhouse is, but I'd love to start just kind of getting a background of how you got into farming and how this how Greenbelt Organics became what it is today. Okay, okay. This is actually my 30th year in the greenhouse business. I started the farm up in Stouwville, growing hydroponic basil. I won an Ontario Science Award for hydroponics back when I think when I was 10. My dad always had a green thumb, but he also happened to be the Dean of Food Technology at George Brown College. And he said when I was launching this idea, he said, well, if you're going to grow anything, grow basil for the chefs in Toronto. And my dad had given one of the chefs after he had retired from, he became a consultant as well as a food critic. And back in the day, Pronto was the top restaurant in Toronto and Brad Long was the executive chef. And my dad gave him a Michelin star. And the next year I walked in with a big bunch of basil and said, Hey, you gonna buy my basil? And he's like, why should I? And I said, because my dad gave you a Michelin star when he's still a friend of mine today. So that's awesome. Yeah. So that's cool. You have such a deep background from when you were like 10. Yeah. And most people may not know, but like, you've been a huge inspiration for me and developing the methodology at living earth because of your focus on quality and just like organics and really focusing on soul nutrition, which I think is surprisingly rare in the CEA control environment agriculture space. Yeah. So it was just great to have you as like, like a leader in the space that could really inspire me to like, I mean, I used to go to health food stores and see your product in the store and be like, this is what I want to replicate. Not any of these other brands that were there. This is what I want to develop it on. So, and you know, organics to us, you know, hydroponics, some unfortunately, miserably failed for us in that we, uh, uh, fusarium wilt in our basal crop. We had root aphids and I said, man, there's gotta be a better way. Uh, and that's, that was the discovery path of organics. Um, and not that organics isn't challenging by any stretch. Um, but it is the differentiator for us in that, um, anybody can grow with chemicals. There's all kinds of great books and people that know how to use chemical fertilizers and all that. Um, but the reality is you don't grow nearly the quality of product with the shelf life that you can with producing organically. Our lettuce tastes like lettuce, our arugula tastes like arugula. Um, and, uh, they can't duplicate that in a hydroponic system. Uh, their lettuce wilts compared to ours. We got, you know, minimum of a 14 day shelf life. We're actually pushing 18 now. Uh, yeah, obviously we have some technology to preserve that process, uh, that hopefully you'll see later. We have a crazy pack house down there. Uh, our, our lettuce is literally chilled within four minutes and in its package, chilled and in his package within four minutes. The best the California can do is four hours. Wow. Yeah. So that's incredible. Yeah. That's like, cause cause once it, once it starts the cold chain, it starts preserving it. Cause once you cut it, it's, it's not a living plan anymore. It's dead. So, uh, the sooner you can get it cold, the slower the breakdown process. Exactly. And then the, all the vitamins and nutrients, especially the vitamins, cause those are the ones that break down the fastest, uh, are going to be intact much longer. But yeah, like I, I buy your arugula from grocery stores in, in Ontario. And, uh, like, yeah, you're totally right. The shelf life is insane. I have some that's, it's gotta be over two weeks old and it's just starting to yellow. And that's from my fridge, not from when it was brought from, or not when it was, uh, cut. That was when it was bought from a grocery store. Yeah. So, and then the like quality wise, like next level for arugula, like the stuff in California has not even close to the flavor complexity and spiciness and just like the crunch that, that it can have. Um, so, and you know, one of the things that I love about my job is that I get to invent all the time. Um, there is no CEA in the world that can produce arugula on mass profitably. No, wow. Um, and I was just in Holland two weeks ago and, um, uh, having the conversation with the breeders, uh, they know how important arugula is just like they know how important spinach is in the CEA space. Again, can't be done yet. Uh, we're working on it, but tough nut. Uh, but anyway, we're going to, uh, you know, one of my favorite plants, but, um, the reason being is that it doesn't put on enough density for its weight and seed. Um, so, you know, would let us seed, you know, we're looking at 55 to 75 kgs per square meter per year on arugula. We're approaching that. Wow. But the seed cost for a table here from these guys in Holland is approaching $60 and seed. Well, the arugula seed probably costs all of them, $4. Really? Yeah. Wow. So they're going to, they said, well, what if you get a hundred percent germination? I said, well, I got 98% germination and you want to charge me $20 a table and seed, but there's no, the economics aren't there for developing new varieties sort of thing. Yeah. But you're not the limiting factor that for arugula is the, they want to grow it hydroponically in a gutter system. So it can compliment a lettuce product in the same facilities. Yeah. Well, when you're growing in a gutter, um, with the, like call it a soil block dropped into a gutter, those are most of the systems that are out there or a jiffy plug that's dropped into a gutter. Um, that's the differentiator in our facility is that we actually figured out how to develop soil into the most common table system in the world. Uh, so from a cost of, um, production standpoint, this is the lowest cost system in a moving table system in the, uh, in the trade. Yeah. So all the gutter systems that are all fully automated and the gutter gets advanced down the greenhouse and then sent to the pack as, uh, this facility would, it would add another $10 million to it. Wow. And yet, so 10 million over the cost of the table system, you know, this table system would have cost, call it 5 million. Well, now you're now talking $15 million in just capital palace to do the gutter system. And with the gutter system, you can't be certified organic because there's not enough soil volume. Got it. Yeah. Right. And I guess that'll depend on your location. That's in Canada, in the U S as well. Oh, so in the U S you can grow hydroponic organic. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But you know, I've tasted the Revol greens, the biggest producer in the U S uh, their organic, uh, lettuce, it's might as well just be hydroponic. Yeah. Yeah. I know a lot of people are doing that. Like it's high, it's organic, but they're really growing it with the high hydroponic methodology. Yeah. Because in a lot of ways the yields can be higher. Yeah. But then what I've noticed is that there's a very direct correlation with quality. Absolutely. And if you're like focusing on building a soil, so that's where I think it, it just from, I think of producing food from the perspective of like what's going to actually nourish people. Cause you were just producing like volume, but it's not actually giving people the nutrients to, you know, like grow and live their life. Like it's like, what is that really food? Or is that what, what it like, I don't know. It's, it is food cause you're getting calories and some nutrients, but it's like the way I've always thought of is, is you maximize the nutrition in the food, then you're actually doing a service to society and growing the food. Whereas like, if you're, you know, growing stuff and it doesn't have much nutrients in it, then it's, it's just the same old, it's not really advancing civilization or agriculture. Yeah, absolutely. So I've always been a firm believer, you know, flavor, you can tell when something tastes good. I'm not a fan of strawberries because to me, strawberries don't taste good. The stuff that comes out of California is terrible. Uh, you know, some CEAs are getting better at it, but you know, university of Guelph is doing a bunch of research with organic strawberries and the guy that we do research projects with the university of Guelph. So he's here on a regular basis, monitoring our compost piles. Anyway, he brings us strawberries and they are to die for. Wow. Like to die for. And it's like, I'll eat that all day long because chances are, and they will be testing the nutrient density of them as well. Guaranteed they're twice as nutrient dense as the California stuff. I totally agree. And that's exactly the same premise that we do here. Grow a really good quality plant. It tastes good. Guaranteed it has higher nutrition. Yeah. Right. Awesome. Uh, before we get into the production, I'd love to hear like where the product's going to, is it just grocery stores in Ontario? Um, and then also if you have any plans to expand beyond the current market that you're in. Right. Um, so our product is sold in major retailers. Uh, and the reason that we focus towards major retailers is the, um, cost of production, uh, to, um, retailers allows us to be competitive in that marketplace. Whereas the, um, restaurant trade or wholesale trade, the margins aren't there. So my partner in this business is one of the largest produce wholesalers in the country. Uh, he can buy, uh, right now he said, Ian, do you want to just pack somebody else's lettuce under your brand? It's like, Steve, that's, he was kidding with me. Yeah. Um, but like he can buy lettuce out of California, uh, in the lows for like a dollar a pound. Like I can't get anywhere close. Like our cost is like, it's $3 a pound. So that's what the restaurant trade is after is low cost. And I, you know, the, the Tim Hortons and the Wendy's of the world and all those guys are after low cost product. Right. So, uh, we just don't compete in that, in that area. They don't attach enough value to our product to pay us the premium prices that we need. Um, and the trade that is, it's such a small proportion of the market, like the high, high end dining. Exactly. Yeah. Um, so when you have this size of facility, when you have volume that we can produce under this facility, we need big retailers to move that volume. Um, and we've etched our market, um, against all the competitors in the, what's called the five deck sector of the grocery store, because we are local and we are organic. There's lots of competition coming down the local path, but none of them are organic. And that's our only saving grace is that we have that quality. We have organic standards and we are local. Right. Yeah. So. And it's very difficult to be able to produce in, in quantity like this, doing it organically. Like most people go to the hydroponic path for a reason. It's been researched, it's been done. It's, uh, you know, not, I don't want to say it's easy by any means. It's not, it's very difficult. And there's been a lot of challenges in Europe and North America with the work, especially vertical farms doing it, but, uh, it's a whole different ball game to do organic. And then the market for organic is growing faster than the traditional, just veg market. Um, so there's a lot of good things going for you here, which is really cool. Yeah. Yeah. It's, uh, and for us, it's maintaining that shell space. And that's the other thing about being in the CEA space is that particularly to retail is that you just cannot drop off the market. Uh, we have that dedicated space at those stores. We need to keep that full. And that's where the pressure comes from in my world. It's, it's keeping, keeping that pipe full. Yeah. Uh, cause as soon as that pipe runs empty, those customers are looking for a replacement for you. Right. Yeah. And fortunately we are in that organic space. So it makes it much more difficult for them to replace us. But yeah. Uh, well, you know, like I said, we're in all the majors, uh, Sobeys, Metro, Loblaws, um, and, um, yeah, some of them are more interesting to deal with than others, but, and I'm not naming names. Yeah. Um, and then in terms of, uh, expansion, so it looks like from what I can see, the greenhouse is pretty full. It is. It is that capacity. So how does that kind of plan out? We just, we just reached capacity probably about two months ago. Uh, our latest and greatest is, as I was explaining earlier, is that we're actually about to implement a regrow program. Um, we had to set up some infrastructure to allow those tables to flow back out after harvest. And, um, and we have to do a dedicated lane. It's very difficult to manage like four or five tables in this facility. It's got to be an entire dedicated lane. Yeah. We've recognized nutrient deficiencies that we would run into in a second cropping cycle. So we're working on that formula as to how to get the nutrition in the back end of the crop. Yeah. Yeah. The, everything we do here, other than a few supplements of seaweed and yucca out in the crop, everything is built into the soil. So, and you got to be careful of high salts and your pH and all the other parameters that contribute to good growth. And so putting enough nutrition in to get it at the back end of that crop is not as easy as it sounds. So, um, especially with organics. Yeah. And that's, that's what we're working towards right now. So that effectively would almost double our capacity, uh, of throughput because you know, this crop right here takes about 28 days. Uh, a recut only takes 14 days. Um, so like one and a half. Yeah. So it's one and a half times on the production. Wow. Wow. That's really cool. Can you do that with the Rue glass as well? Probably we were thinking about, Oh, wow. It's great. Like honestly, like you, like every time I come here, I'm just like blown away by the innovation that's going on here. It's like, it's so inspiring and cool. Um, and yeah, like I'm really excited for people to see the automation you guys have. One of the coolest things for me personally is this soil here is actually reused. So, you know, with microgreens and even just a lot of greenhouse production that does organic, the soil just gets tossed because it's very difficult to reuse it. There's the salt that accumulates over time. Yeah. And, uh, and you know, obviously you don't, if you're not growing exact same profit, there's like weeds in quotes. Yeah. And you can see a few that have popped up behind us here. Yeah. Um, it is what it is. And it just gets pulled out on the production line. So we don't worry about it out here. Yeah. We do it in the sanitary environment to make sure that there's no soil cross-contamination and that sort of stuff into the crop. Um, yeah. So this, the facility, if we were not recycling our soil, um, would consume a million dollars in peat annually. Wow. Uh, so it's a huge cost. Um, yeah. So we developed, uh, initially that was the plan. Uh, and then we started building a pile out back and then we got the university of guelph involved again, uh, to do a research project with us to help us maintain the perfect compost condition so that we could recycle that media back in. Yeah. And we're in the midst of that research project right now. So far we've been muddling along pretty good, but we know we need to dial it, but we do an awful lot of soil tests to understand what exactly is coming into the facility, how we need to adjust it. Uh, what was happening last year is that we're actually developing organic acids in the soil and our pH was plummeting from beginning to end down to like in the 4.4 range. The crop was really suffering. Um, and then that project started with the university of Guelph. They helped us through that issue by lining more. Uh, but now it's, it's about everything in this facility is all about policies and procedures. So now that we discovered we had a problem, we sample every single week, start and finish of the crop, analyze our compost inbound. Um, so I think we do about eight to 10 soil tests every week. Wow. Um, that just gives us the data set, uh, and Alice, who hopefully you'll catch on camera, who's my head grower, um, is, uh, just a very talented spreadsheet manager, computer whiz, all that stuff. I get the fun job of experimenting and implementing. She gets the difficult job of trying to keep up with me. So, um, so yeah, we have all kinds of super cool stuff around here. We take, you know, all our water comes from, uh, a large 15 or 18 million liter pond out front that takes all the rainwater off the roof, puts it into storage. It's a bentonite clay line pond. The unfortunate part about this location in Flamborough is that we're, our water quality is terrible. The ground. Yeah. It's, it's so full of hydrogen sulfide. You can't use it. And filtration systems for the volume of water we use is just way too expensive. So we installed a, uh, installed that pond and we solely rely on that water, including all our potable water comes from that pond, but we have an Israeli technology that purifies the water to potable water standards. Um, just using dialysis membranes. We're the first one in Canada to have it. So it's not reverse osmosis something else. Oh, interesting. Yeah. It's actually sitting right over there. Uh, it's called a new system. Huh? And, um, so it makes, I think 10, about a cubic meter per hour. And so we have enough storage on board or in the facility to store that potable water for all our wash water or washing. Yeah. The plant. Everything else that water is for. Yeah. And it includes filtering to potable water standards, all the water that we use on the crop, uh, because that's actually a standard of the, um, Canada gap. Okay. So all, all irrigation water has to be potable water standard. Yeah. So with the, the composting, um, which we'll show after just one quick question I had is like my, my understanding with this, like salts would eventually accumulate in it. That's why we're so careful with sodiums. Uh, so all, every input that comes into the facility gets tested for, uh, soluble salts, uh, sodium, uh, chlorides. Uh, so any of the nasties we, uh, the C we see of a, so we got a C of a of every ingredient inbound to this facility. Wow. So that we know exactly what's coming in. Yeah. Because if you don't, then all of a sudden you're running into a problem. It's going to bite us. Right. So, and we've learned all those hard lessons. I can imagine times. Yeah. It's crazy how like you've been growing food, uh, organically most of that 30 years, right? Yeah. About 25 of it. Yeah. And you're still learning like tons and tons of stuff every year. It's really cool. Um, and I think you're driving the industry forward in so many ways. Um, and I hope this video will inspire people as well to like get involved in organics more so than hydroponics because I think that's really, uh, you know, that's, that's my passion is just like the quality of the food and maybe one day hydroponics will be able to match what the symbiosis in soil can do. But it seems like we're pretty far away from that. Absolutely. Yeah. And what I'm seeing is the latest grade, like it's, we just had a sales meeting with a new company that wants to supply us. And you know, 10 years ago, these guys would have come to me and I, there wouldn't be anything in their catalog I could buy. Yeah. Uh, just cause none of it met the organic standards. Today, the guy opened the catalog and he's got four pages of organic products and they're a chemical based supplier to the Leamington area. Uh, and they've got four pages of stuff. Um, and a lot of it is now actually active bacterias and funguses and that's kind of cool stuff. Yeah. Yeah. Oh yeah. It's happening. Like we ran into a bit of a pithium issue as the temperature skyrocketed here. And, um, that's one of the other reasons I was in Holland is looking for the latest, greatest and trigonometry, uh, trigonometry, uh, species and bacterias and funguses to help us control that issue. Because if part of our pile, uh, isn't composted properly, isn't rotated properly, or that's too much moisture, not enough moisture that we don't necessarily reach the temperatures in the pile to control that disease pressure. So this is an insurance policy, uh, to make sure that we stay on target. Yeah. Again, that arugula did not look like that three weeks ago. Uh, we had, yeah, it was very prone to pithium. So how did, how, like in terms of, uh, bacterial additives, cause I think a lot of microorganism growers would be interested in this as well. Like what, what, what have you found is the most effective to add, uh, like that's allowed for organic production? I'm guessing it's some sort of fungus or bacteria. So we use a lot of, uh, a product called EM1 and there's another company out there called Terra Biosa, uh, out of Mississauga that we've actually just changed to because they're a local supply. Um, they produce a lactobacteria, um, and we brew that product here. So, um, we buy the concentrate, we brew it out with the additional molasses and all, every crop in here is treated with that on a regular basis. It's actually in our, every one of the booms has dosatrons built onto them. And so that, uh, I call it EM, but Terra Biosa this, this week, um, um, seaweed, yucca, um, are all applied to the crop on a regular basis, particularly at seeding when we first, uh, seed. Yeah. So for, yeah, anyway, that just got watered into that. And then have you like, have you found that's like controls it like that keeps it at bay? It typically does. So, you know, one of the reasons that we ran into the Pythium problem wasn't just, uh, inconsistencies in compost. It was actually in a large irrigation system like this, you end up with biofilm in the pipework. Yeah. And biofilm is, it's not that it's harmful to the crop. It's, it's actually the mechanics of operating the booms. And so what happens is it plugs up our nozzles and actually it plugs the filters first, then it plugs the nozzles. And then we have to constantly clean our boom filters. So right now we're on a rotation of every single day cleaning our boom filters. There's 28 of them in here. That's a lot of filters to clean. Yeah. And unfortunately the way we plumbed it, the filters are up top. So our plumbers in actually in today, moving the filters down to the bottom of the booms. So it's easier to access them and stuff. But so the lead up to the Pythium was that we did a shock treatment of hypochlorous acid into our boom system. And the provider said that, yo, you can use this on the crop all the time. Lots of growers do that. It's under, you're allowed to use it on your organic certification. So we're using it for approximate. We did the heavy dose, clean the system out and we're running it at like one PPM in our system to maintain that cleanliness. Yeah. And it was killing the biology in the soil. The accumulation of that core, those chlorines were actually creating more of an issue for Pythium than our natural habitat that we encourage through the use of VM one and the rest of the organic products that we use here. Right. So I've always, like this has happened several times in my career that you try and sanitize your way out of a problem. Well, all of a sudden you're inviting more and more pathogens into occupy that space. Yeah. Yeah. No, that's good. But it's good balance. And that's ultimately I relate organics to gut microbiome. Yeah. Plants are healthier if they have a good soil biome. A hundred percent. That's a very good analogy to use for people. Cause I think people understand that better because they have it in them. And anyone that's like, experienced any sort of GI issues with antibiotics and stuff like that, like we'll totally understand how important the biology of the soil is. And then the food you eat, like the back to the EM bacteria, which are good for you. It's a lactobacillus bacteria. Yeah. Would in theory like be defending the plant on the surface as well. Not just the roots. We have no powdery mildew. These crops are pretty susceptible to powdery mildew. We have zero powdery mildew in this facility. Yeah. I'm sure the, the, the LED lights just turned on. Yeah. In the winter months is when it's most prone to the powdery mildew. Actually it's the spring and the fall. Oh really? Interesting. Early spring. Okay. Like now we do have sulfur burners in case, which is, you know, allowed under the organic standard. Yeah. But you don't need them very often. Not very often. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So if we run into a really dim week, and then all of a sudden we break out into strong sunshine, then we'll see some powdery mildew, uh, rear its ugly head. So yeah. Yeah. And so it was big climate changes. Uh, yeah. Yeah. Like it was real hot a couple of weeks ago. And I can imagine that that's a challenge. And yeah, actually the crop performed well through it all. Amazing. Yeah. We don't run into bolting issues, but when you're running 28 day crop cycles, uh, it's less. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So. And then the, the lights, um, are these the same ones that you've had a few years ago? No. So we used to have a Heliospectra test, uh, lights. And if anybody out there wants to buy some Heliospectras, I got lots of them. Uh, no, the problem with Heliospectra, they just couldn't give us the power that we needed. So this light was actually the reason we selected it is most LED lighting systems and or high pressure. So then they get installed in the greenhouse. They end up putting Unistrat in this direction, uh, which actually creates even more shade in the greenhouse. So by being able to utilize our trusses and still getting equal lighting across the profile was what made the decision. And then funny enough, when I was in Holland, both, uh, the seed vendors trials that I went to both had the exact same picture. So, uh, so we selected well, yeah, for sure. And you were saying, which is really cool, uh, earlier is that like, there's almost no difference in the product quality from like this time of year, which is, you know, late June, peak sunshine availability to like December. And, and, you know, this is a pretty Northern climate. Yeah. So that's one, that was one of the things that always led me to go to indoor vertical is the technology when I started in 2013, didn't seem like it was really there. Also the cost of operating a greenhouse to start is more expensive than a vertical farm. Yeah. Um, in a lot of ways, uh, but one of the big challenges was the lighting wasn't really there. No, like the LEDs were still very new. Um, so you think that they're, they're pretty much there now where you can replicate in a Northern climate year round. Oh, absolutely. Wow. Um, and again, being at the trade show in, in Holland, you know, the technology, these fixtures now are two years old, I think their efficiencies are getting a little bit better, but they're going to be very small incremental. So I didn't want to make a decision on lighting until we had gotten to this point. Yeah. Um, we needed that technology to be advanced enough so that I'm not making a huge capital investment and then replacing it in five years. Uh, I wanted to get 10 years out of these fixtures before I had to, uh, update them. Um, and, uh, there will be justification in 10 years to, uh, update just because they have gotten that much more efficient. So yeah, for sure. Yeah. And like the, they won't burn out. That's one thing I know for sure. Yeah. It's from, from my experience, we had lights that were supposed to have a life expectancy of like, I think it was 20 or 40,000 hours and we hit it and I was like, Oh, these, and I realized it's, it's, it's, that's the 70% efficiency of the light. So they'll, in theory they'll like last, no, I won't say indefinitely, but for a very, very long time. Right. Are you, are you getting the productivity out of your crop as that trend starts to occur? Yeah. And that's where like, if these things drop to 70% efficiency, there's a, we draw two megs of power in this place to drive these lights. Well, 30% of two megs is an awful lot of energy. Yeah. Right. Yeah. And then that plus the increase in efficiency over that 10 year period, you know, it could be 45% or something like that. And all of a sudden you have this huge cost savings that make the, and the LEDs will be less expensive than most likely, you know, inflation adjusted, but like, so yeah, that the technology has changed so drastically, but it's, it's cool to know that it's kind of matured now where the, you know, it's gone really, really good and it's going to be more slow incremental changes from here. Cause that's right. At the beginning it was like, like crazy, like percentage increases. Yeah. I think our 10 years ago, maybe 12, but I was, well, I saw the old farm of the Stova. We started playing with LEDs, um, and knowing full well that we had to have lighting if we wanted to be a year round producer. Yeah. So we did a lot of experiments of tons of different light fixtures. Um, anyway, yeah, ultimately it turns into this, right. Awesome. Um, and this is actually a Dutch based company that is partnered with a Canadian manufacturer out of the, um, Niagara region. And so service and, um, customer support is incredible. So yeah, that's one of the main reasons we went with this fixture. Awesome. Yeah. That's really, it's definitely important if, uh, you know, I've had a bot from, from, uh, overseas and then like the language bearer can be tough. And then also it's like the power supply is really what I've seen goes in these things. So you really need a well-designed power supply for these things to last a long time, like the LEDs themselves and like the heat sink, like, you know, I think that's, I don't want to say easier, but it's important. Uh, but in my experience with lower cost LEDs, I'm sure these are much more expensive and higher output, uh, was the power supplies just were not built well. Uh, but that was seemed to be solved a long time ago now. Yeah. So maybe let's go and check out production now. Yeah. So why we should probably go to the backend first. So, um, essentially this material is probably four months old, uh, in static piles, just outside the back. Um, so essentially when the crop is harvested, we have a ginormous vacuum cleaner system over there that'll show you, uh, vacuums the compost off the tables, delivers it to a bin. And then as loaders handle that product into windrows and Derek, the guy that just walked by, he manages all those piles outside and he's actually gotten very talented at monitoring. He, you just get a sense and he's got that sense for taking care of those piles. Yeah. And that's key obviously. Um, and then this is the same material that we'll take analyze, uh, every week before it goes back into production. Um, so this material makes up 80% of our mix. And then we buy a pre-mix of a perlite peat based material that gets blended back in on our soil processing line. So we turn around here. And the reason for that, just so people know is because over time the peat moss will turn from a very porous material to something that's more like black earth. So just to get that proporcity back, uh, you just kind of need to add in some fresh peat, but even still like this is in and of itself, I think very revolutionary for the industry. So that's like really cool. Cause you know, I actually had pro mix on the podcast. Um, and it was interesting to hear like how little P moss we use, but having said that it's still a carbon, like a porn carbon sink that we like, ideally if we can not use it, it'd be much better solution. Even if we're using a small percentage of what's available, it's still much better just to not use it and let that carbon be sink back in the earth. Yeah. Cause we, we definitely, we need that. Yeah. Well, and you mentioned pro mix, uh, premier horticulture is a company that owns pro mix and, uh, their quality of peat moss is terrible. I would never use them. We have used them in the past and they just can't get it right. Uh, especially at scale like we are, um, you know, maybe the, they're small growers and the bales are probably fine, but yeah, yeah. The fails. They're Lambert's probably a better choice of materials, uh, Lambert or T and H for, for the, the, the tall bales, even their small bills. Oh really? Okay. Um, the problem is, is what they put in retail package size, bales is their worst material because the habit, the average homeowner grower doesn't have a clue what good quality people is actually supposed to look like. Right? Yeah. Yeah. No, like that's why I call it retail Pete. Like, so pro mix has, or premier has pro mix like potting soil in like loose bags. Yeah. Like that, that stuff I tell people not to use because that's like, if it's for retail, they're not going to be foot. Like it's gotta be up like for professional growers. Yeah. So even though like HP, I've been using it in, in, in testing cause a lot of growers use that. Yep. And it seems pretty consistent to me. I have people say like there's extra perlite in there, less perlite things like that. Right. Um, and it's like, it's better to buy P mouse on its own, but a lot of growers, if they're small enough, like they don't have soil mixing machine, all that kind of stuff. It's just a lot easier to buy. Oh, absolutely. Yeah. And that's the challenge of being small. Right. Yeah. You can't, you can't get equipment like that. So yeah. So this is, uh, uh, I guess it was back, uh, eight, I guess the 10 years ago, I first met the gentleman, the owners of Logitech plus, and we've actually become friends. Uh, been invited to go save this house in Spain and a great company, great equipment, but it's big. It's big. Um, like we're capable of producing 15 cubic meters, no, 30 cubic meters per hour out of this line. Um, we're, I guess we're running about half speed. We're producing like 300, 400 cubic meters of soil per week. Wow. Um, so it's not cubic yards. No, wow. So this is a bale shaver, uh, takes these skyscrapers, shaves the bale automatically delivers it on the line. This is what we also call the dirty area. Cause it gets dusty back here. Yeah. I can imagine. But if you look down that line, you can see all the fertilizer dispensers, gypsum, feather meal, compost. Uh, and it's all, it's all automated. Like you, yeah. Yeah. As soon as the sensor calls, that line automatically starts. Now this is main, this is a one person's full time job. Wow. Just keeping this line running. Yeah. Uh, so filling all the bunkers and the hoppers and checking the calibration. So nothing's ever perfect. And calibration is key to making sure that those fertilizer dispensers aren't going out of whack. So he's checking probably minimum of every half an hour. Wow. To make sure the weights are on target. Yeah. Uh, cause is there any inconsistencies in the granulation, then it changes the discharge rates and all that stuff. And then also it affects the comp, the ability to compost it because if there's too much in there, it changes the whole, like, it's just, it's the precision that's needed. Yeah. So that you maintain it all the way through the cycle. Right. Yeah. We make small incremental changes. And then, you know, it's four months before we're seeing that change possibly reenter our system. Right. Uh, yeah. Um, and how long did it take for you guys to develop the composting system to get it to, I know it's still in the works. Like it's a ever evolving. Yeah. And actually we could just see if we just go out the side door here and TH, I've never heard of this brand. Uh, yeah, they're Quebec based here in hatchery, packery. Oh, interesting. Huh? So, oh wow. That's a lot of, uh, that's a lot of soil. Okay. So each one, like, so they're all, so this one says March, March. So that was loaded, loaded March, April. Okay. May. So this one would be the first one that's going to, this is the one that's going to use next. Yeah. I think he's working on a pile probably from the, before that, uh, further down. Yeah. Um, so then he transports it all in by skid steer. Uh, and we finally got to a track loader. Ultimately we would like to pave this area, uh, collect the leachate off of the piles and recycle that back into the facility. Um, but really what it needs is it needs an entire building so we can predict it. It's a whole other business. Yeah, it is. Yeah. What, what, what are the key to like from your, your, your learnings on making good quality compost? Cause I know we've had this conversation in, in years past about how hard it is to find good quality compost and how different it is all across the world, all across different cities. Each company has like their own, like different way and some skimp on the timing. And there's so many, so like if someone does want to, you know, try to compost their own soil, like peat based soil, what would be like the key takeaways that you've kind of learned? Oh boy. I'm sure it's a lot. Yeah. It's a smaller grow, like obviously, you know, well, you know, and I've been at some small growers that did a really poor job of, and you know, I don't need to name any names, but did a really poor job of actually composting their media thinking they were saving money. And the reality was, is that they were wasting more money because of the disease pressures that they had. I know exactly. Um, yeah, yeah, yeah. Like it's, um, so, and you know, when we first started this project, we went out to the University of Guelph and said, you know, can you help us through this process? And yeah, it takes capital. Like I think we're spending $50,000 with the University of Guelph, uh, this year alone, the government's funding two thirds, another two thirds on top of that. Um, it's a good use of government money in my opinion. Yeah, yeah, yeah. It is very good. Um, we've got some great students, uh, you know, one's got a master's, one's going for her PhD, um, that is helping us through this process of understanding what we do or what we need to be doing. Um, what we know of where we're at now is we're not achieving the kind of temperatures that we actually should for composting. Um, and our carbon to nitrogen ratio is out. Uh, so we need to get some more nitrogen into the mix. Um, it's, you know, understanding those temperatures, but yeah, we had the University, actually all their probes just got pulled out of our piles and just last week, like this thing was wired for sound. Um, and they monitored it for, I don't know, almost six months. And so we have all these graphs and charts, but ultimately the reality is, is that we just don't have enough N going in, um, to get the heat. The piles need to be bigger pretty much. No, we don't have enough nitrogen. Um, okay. The carbon nitrogen ratio is just, yeah, to get the heat. Got it. Got it. Okay. So we've now supplied the University of Guelph with all our cost-effective nitrogen sources from alfalfa and feather meal and, uh, those sorts of products, uh, to actually do in lab tests to get the, to tell us how much exactly we need to add. Um, so we're not wasting it. So we have a predictable result at the end. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's the toughest thing is like, especially if you, if you have a compost pile, uh, outdoors, it's at the mercy of like the rain, the temperature. Yeah. If it's indoors in theory, could you like create a formula for doing it? And then absolutely like it was an indoor structure. Those, you didn't get the same temperature. So we already have the design, the plans, the engineering done for an in-vessel composting system, uh, utilizing an overhead gantry crane that would literally dump a pile in and that gantry crane automatically manages it until it's, excuse me, until it's finished. Um, but that's a million dollars spent. Yeah. Does that, does it exist anywhere? Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Uh, so the big peat companies in, in the Netherlands have done this all day long. Ah, you just did like literally that's the other advice I give to any newbie growers. Get over to green tech, get to Holland, see the way these guys do this stuff because they are the technology leaders in the world. Um, you know, I did hear an interesting statement though, when I was there that Leamington has now beat them in kilos per square meter of tomato and cucumber production just this past year. Huh? Leamington has, uh, they're rocking it. Really? Wow. That's incredible. Yeah. I haven't been down Leamington in a while. That's really cool. Yeah. Yeah. Those guys are building a hundred acres. They don't, they don't even think about not building a hundred acres with a shot. It's insane. But those guys are deeply funded by equity markets these days. Yeah. Yeah. It's all like, I know some people in, in, uh, uh, private equity, like land buyers and, uh, it's, it's just, it's all pure numbers game. Like they can get, if the numbers make sense, they get the funding, they can build whatever the hell they want sort of thing, as long as the numbers make sense. So, uh, which is a good thing. But at the same time, again, like, what is the quality of that hydroponic mass produced food? And like, I, I personally haven't seen anything aquaponics hydroponic that really can match the quality of a good organic production system with soil. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah. I, you know, my other analogy I always use when I'm trying to describe organics, it's like, when was the last time you ate a really good tasting tomato from the grocery store? When I, and I say that they say, yeah, kind of, they taste not bad. And I said, when was the last time you tasted a really good organic tomato grown in your own garden? Oh yeah. They taste really good. Yeah. Right. Yeah. Pretty simple stuff. A hundred percent. Yeah. That's how I got started in farming is I, I, uh, brought, uh, these cherry tomatoes to, uh, that I grew in my backyard to the office I was working at and just like seeing people's faces light up when they like, cause some people have never tried a real tomato as crazy as that sounds. And, and then just giving them that experience, it was like beautiful, you know, just getting them to try real food that for the first time, because they're just, we're born into the system of buying from grocery stores and just not really noticing the quality, especially in North America. I think other places in the world have a better focus on quality. Absolutely. Than here. Yeah. Oh, I can. So it makes it a little easier to understand what quality is. Well, that's why we still buy tinned tomatoes from Italy, right? Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. Sam Marzano's grown well. Yeah. No, no, no. This is a drop tube. Oh, it's actually got a sponge in there. This is the same seeder they use in California, Arizona. Uh, it's actually developed in New Zealand. So this would normally be mounted on a three-point hitch of a tractor. Uh, the difference is that we don't have, we don't need a tractor. Yeah. So our tables drive through it and then it actually has a revolution control. So then we can control seating density. Ah, um, is it kind of, it's computer program? Uh, no, it just has a like PLC and literally like we couldn't get them to tell us the technology to how to turn it on and off remotely. So we had to come up with a pneumatic button actuated by light sensors or sensors to tell it when to turn on and turn off. Um, because normally it would be a guy in a tractor hitting start. Yeah. Right. Yeah. So we needed a start finger. So, so you, so you can just, it's just that dial. That's what adjusts the seating rate. Uh, seating rate is adjusted on. Oh, there's a, okay. There's a, there's some sort of program. Yeah. I control it like, yeah, yeah, it's not complicated, but it's just the revolutions of a sponge hitting six drop tubes. Um, the Dutch wanted 300,000. No, 200,000 euro to build me a cedar to see these tables. This thing costs 25,000 euros. Wow. Yeah. Huh? Yeah. I guess that's the advantage of having things that are already done. I always say like, if you can buy something that exists, yeah, do it because trying to create your own thing, as I'm sure you've experienced with the harvester and other things you've done, uh, in the micros industry, it's like, it's a lot of work. It is the money. It's not worth the money. So, and it's a lot of experimentation and yeah. And time. Yeah. So yeah, we had Sutton Ag and California, uh, just build the aluminum frame for us and ship it up. So Sutton Ag, um, is one of the largest farm implement suppliers to the cellar green industry in California. Wow. Uh, so we also have a bandsaw harvester that is the exact same harvester that would be used in the field without the tractor. Uh, so that's just inside that room there. Um, and it literally straddles the entire table, tables driven underneath it. Yeah. And the conveyor bills take that product away. That's the one machine that we are looking at redeveloping, um, into a rotating knife system. Okay. And that's the other reason I was in Holland was, um, you know, our manufacturers of a single gutter lane wide lettuce harvester, but it won't do what we need it to because we need it to straddle a 1.6 meter table. So we'll probably end up with really large blades and really wide and four of them, uh, to try and harvest our tables. And it's just a much more precise cut with a rotating knife. And what the advantage is that it would affect the shelf life or is there anything else? Well, cleaner cut. And also if we're doing the regrows, um, it would be because of the cleaner cut, uh, it just makes your regrow probably better. Uh, God, that makes sense. Okay. For regrowth, this is the main one. Yeah. Okay. Um, but that is going to be a custom one-off machine because nobody else grows on these tables like we do. Although people are starting to pay attention in Holland, enough of the consultants that have been here. Yeah. So, um, so this is the table filler again, a custom piece of machinery because no one's ever filled an entire table profile. Yeah. So what are these? They're bigger than four by eight or four by 12 or something? No, four, uh, five by 19. Five by 19. Are, this is a standard table size? It all depends on the greenhouse width. So most Dutch greenhouses are 21 feet wide. That's why the table's 19 to leave that two foot walkway at the end of each table. So these are standard size tables. Yeah. Okay. If you have a different size greenhouse and you can get different size tables. Got it. Got it. So, okay. So these tables were, are flood tables and they were designed to handle pot culture. So potted mums or African pilots or whatever. The reason I bought this facility is, um, it had the entire table system here. The facility was very tired. So we replaced the roof. We replaced the hydronic heating system, but the value of the tables and the table handling system, uh, made the purchase price made complete sense. Yeah. Yeah. Um, so we still continue to use the same tables and developing that, uh, system to grow organically and have enough soil volume. It was actually a really good fit for us. Yeah. Yeah. No, like the, the crops look amazing. Yeah. How uniform they're, they're growing with this system and like, you know, you don't need as much soil depth. Um, on short crop crops. Yeah. Yeah. For, you know, if you're on tomatoes, it wouldn't, that wouldn't work. But, um, yeah, that's cool that you were able to, like, you know, that's always, I find that's the best way to do it. If there's something that exists, then, uh, if you can slightly modify it or use it, you know, but, but this machine, uh, that fills them, that's a custom made machine because no one fills these things with soil for now. Yeah. Yeah. So again, Logitech plus their soil processing line, we just had to add an extension and then it, uh, drops down into the table and Luanda or seating person, she controls all those speeds and all that sort of stuff. So yeah. Um, and this little gizmo here is just to flatten the soil out on the way by. Ah, okay. Okay. Um, interesting. Okay. Yeah. Um, and then how, like how, how long does it take for you guys to get through? I'm guessing it's running five or seven days a week. I know we only run four days a week, four days a week. So we got all our production done in four. We run slightly longer days and we went out to our staff and said, listen, we can get this done in four. Yeah. It might turn into a 10 hour day, but you get an entire day off per week. Same number of hours. What do you like? What do you, what do you think? And they're like, sign me up. Yeah. I think most people would want that. Yeah. Yeah. So they, uh, they don't work Mondays. That's amazing. So you got three day weekend. Yeah. Wow. Yeah. I think, I think, I think you got a new employee here. Yeah. Um, that's amazing. Yeah. That's so we see Luando tomorrow or sorry, today we'll probably do 120 tables. Um, I think we're seating about 400, 420 or 440 tables a week. Uh, and we're harvesting 440 tables a week. Okay. Uh, so this place was like a big circle. Yeah. Outbound inbound. So they cut, they'll come in through here. They come in through the wall here. Oh, the wall there. Okay. And then they come on through there. Okay. And there's a harvester just on the other side of that wall. Got it. Got it. And then this is a cut table that's about to go into the vacuum system. So the ginormous vacuum over there. Uh, that's what's the vacuum. It vacuums all the compost up. Oh, whoa. Yeah. So we developed that machine as well. Uh, so that, that, do you have to create that? So it's actually, we brought a sucker truck in here to figure out how to get a compost off the tables. Um, because these tables aren't heavy enough to actually dump the table. Oh, interesting. And, um, so, and then even after you've dumped the table, then you're still gonna have a lot of residual to get off. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So we actually brought a sucker truck in from, uh, locally and had them set up at the back and try it out. Yeah. And the problem was that that sucker truck had so much horsepower, it was like sucking the entire table right off. So we, the same company that provided that sucker truck gave us the contact information for the, for the gym or manufacturer. And this was actually an off the shelf piece of equipment that they use for sucking the ballast, the rocks between railroad ties. They put an excavator on the rails with that thing called a tin bin. I don't know why they call it a tin bin, but anyway, so they literally suck the ballast out and then they can punch the railroad tie out. Oh, and these things are all over Europe and the Canadian distributor is actually getting a lot of traction with them. Uh, but it sounds like a jet engine taken off. I was going to say, I can imagine it's got to be really loud. It is if it's lifting up like rocks and like big rocks. Yeah. Yeah. So it vacuums up our compost and then anyway, well, let's walk over and you can kind of see it. That's smart. Cause yeah, clean, like even on small scale, my greens farms, I see like you're brushing it. You're trying to suck it up with like a little vacuum. Like it's, it's time consuming to clean flood tables. You know, it's a big thing when people start automating, they're like, we go from cleaning trays to having to clean flood tables. Yeah. And flood tables are much harder to maneuver to clean them. Yeah. And then a 10 by 20 tray. Yeah. So there's a whole drive system here that captures the table and then automatically indexed it as the vacuum goes back and forth. Uh, that gets accumulated in the bin. And then after that cycle, the doors open on the bottom of the bin, the conveyor belts turn on and all the, all the weight compost materials transported outside to a bin that allows the skid steer to come in and pick that material up and then transport it out to the files. Wow. So this is this on a, uh, uh, is this manually controlled or it's on a program? It's all automatic. Okay. It's on a, so what did you have to custom make that or was that? Okay. Yeah. That makes sense. Yeah. So we had, uh, we, we had an engineering firm out of Niagara, um, gave them the, uh, uh, the problem and they came up with a solution. Yeah. And that was six months in the works. I can, I can't like just this one thing solving this one problem can be quite difficult on its own. And you think about like, you have, this is just one small stage and the, for this is just getting the soil off of the trays. Um, it's crazy. There's so, there's so much equipment that's needed to make an efficient automated system. Yeah. And again, the fun part of my job is I get to invent this stuff and come up with the concepts, but sometimes it can get frustrating, especially when you spend the kind of money we spend on this sort of stuff and then it doesn't work. And then you got to figure out a workaround. Yeah. Uh, like this machine, it wasn't terribly reliable in the beginning and they, you know, working with good companies, they updated it and got it working for it. Right. So, um, and then, so, you know, this, this is our table washing system. This was all here when we purchased the facility, the crane, uh, wherever the crane is, there's a crane that comes in, picks up the table, puts it in the washer, washes it and knows where to put a clean stack. Uh, and just keeps the entire process operating. Normally these stacks are all full of, uh, tables, but yeah, no, it's, it's crazy. It's like a, uh, it's like a Tesla factory here, but for growing plants, like serious, because I've been to the Tesla factory and it's just robots moving things around. And it's like, I'm sure I'll see that when once it's running, but just seeing that I'm like, that's what it reminds me of. It's using, it's a manufacturing process to grow up, like using that mindset to automate, uh, and maybe even though you're still growing plants, but using the mindset of manufacturing, uh, and manufacturing like ideology on how to make this as efficient as possible. Yeah. Because the more efficient it is, the cheaper you guys can produce high quality greens that will. And ultimately again, we, our biggest competition is still California. Yeah. Right. And we have to compete against those tractor trailer loads coming up from California, which it's a little irritating. Yeah. I can, I can imagine. But, uh, like, you know, you go in the winter to grocery store, that stuff does not last very long. No. Like, sometimes it'll be like a day or two after you buy the expiry dates, like a week out and it just goes bad because it's, it's, there's so many cold chain drops and, and like how much time it takes. Like, my understanding it's like five to seven days in transport. Yeah. And transport. The other reason that California greens deteriorate as rapidly as they do is because they use a nitrogen gas flush system. So they, that clamshell before that lid gets put on it, or the film seal gets put on it, they use copious amounts of nitrogen to flush the oxygen out, then seal the clamshell. This machine that's sitting right here is actually a top seal system and it has a nitrogen gas flush system built into it. Okay. For that purpose. So it, what it does is it takes all the oxygen away, which then doesn't allow the product to deteriorate. So as soon as you open that clamshell, the nitrogen goes out of it, the oxygen goes in and then the rot process and it's like prone. It looks great when that package is closed. As soon as you open it, oxygen gets in and it turns to that's smart, but also deceivious because like people think they're buying something fresh, but it could last longer because it doesn't have the oxygen to break down and start decomposing. But once you open it up, if it's eight days old, it's still eight days old. Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. Wow. Yeah. That's cool. I didn't know that. Yeah. Yeah. So this is our latest greatest project, which is a top seal. So we currently use a hinge clamshell. Yeah. And because of all that extra plastic, the clamshell is expensive. So we are going to a top seal system, which will actually reduce our packaging costs by 50%. And do you have to, and it'll put nitrogen in as well? We can, if you don't need to. Yeah. Yeah. Right. Because the shelf looks so good. Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. We'll do some experiments with it. See if it helps. But like, do you really want to be buying a package of cellar greens that has a 30 day best for port it? Yeah. Maybe not. Yeah. You know what's funny is there's a lot of juice companies now that are, uh, like, I don't want to name any names, but like the, like, I know that the UV sterilize it. Yeah. Which, you know, it's good. It's like, it's sterile, which can be good if there's any pathogens and stuff. But like you look at the best before day, you're like, how is this lasting three months or four months before it goes bad? It's literally fresh, fresh juice. And it's just, it's this, and so, so interesting because I didn't know that and hearing that I'm like, it's kind of the same thing in a way. It's like a way to preserve, uh, just without chemicals in a way, it's just using like what's in the air, but it's a way to preserve the product. Uh, but it's, it makes total sense when you open it. Yeah. That it's going to go bad because it's that old already. Yeah. So we technically should not go in here, but we're going to sneak in. Uh, this is the harvester. The harvester straddle's there. You can't see the bandsaw at the front of it, but that's the back end of the harvester. And then this is a knocking, uh, belt that knocks off any fine particles off the product. This section here is actually designed for a Raytech optical sorter, but if we ever needed to sort out yellow leaves or anything of that sort of stuff, that would happen there. Oh, okay, cool. Yeah. And then the next piece of equipment is sort of our piece to resistance. And I'll explain that when we get out of this room, because it's really loud in here. Yeah. Yeah. That's a sanitation tunnel. Ah, okay. I can see the UV. Yeah. Yeah. So, it's UV, hydrogen peroxide and ozone. So it's you, sorry, you said it was UV. So it's UV, hydrogen peroxide and ozone. Wow. And those three, the, the UV actually, uh, kicks those two products into, uh, nanoparticles. And it's all this research was done at the university of Guelph and that it's, it's, um, like we get a three log kill of any bacterias on our product. Cause we do not wash our product. Yeah. Yeah. That step because we grow so clean. Yeah. There's no need to wash from washing actually deteriorates the product. Um, you know, if you think about the California guys and Arizona guys, they're using so much chlorine in their water. That's the other reason the product doesn't last very long. Cause they've actually damaged the product because they have to use so much chlorine. Yeah. Otherwise they get all kinds of infections and the flavor like chlorine doesn't taste good. No. Yeah, no, exactly. It's like water gives an off flavor and then you can sometimes tell when something's been treated with chlorine. It has like, like a more chemically taste to it. Yeah. That's right. So this system was developed by Paul Moyer at Moyer apples in Niagara on the light or Niagara fall Niagara, uh, for candied apples. He's in a very large producer of candied apples. And in the U S they were having the state that he wasn't, but us producers were having listeria issues. Uh, so he actually won the premier's agricultural award runners up to us, uh, for introducing this 2018 for introducing microgreens to the, to the public in Ontario. Yeah. So he won second place, um, for this for that machine. That's cool. Yeah. Um, but we did our validation with the university of wealth. He had a test unit, university of wealth. They took our product, infected it with listeria, ran it through the tunnel and proved that they get a three log reduction and that we cannot get contaminated as long as we absolutely maintain the equipment. Yeah. Um, so that gives us great food safety protocols. Yeah. And, uh, so we, we can be confident that we're selling good, uh, um, non-infect or contaminated product. Yeah. Yeah. I, I don't know if you, anyway, I'll give a quick history 2018, the Canadian food inspection agency said I had listeria and if Paul and I had met at that point, then, uh, I probably could have peddled my way out. Yeah. Yeah. I was very unfortunate. People that don't know Greenbell Micrones, which was the company prior to Greenbell organics, uh, did just my greens. And they were like the biggest microgreens grower, I think in the world, which is like crazy. Um, and then there was that like, uh, a quote unquote outbreak. Did you ever find out what the cause was? No. And so the, no one, no one ever got sick, right? No one got sick. No one got sick. No. Yeah. It was very unfortunate. Um, but the, you know, essentially they made us do three recalls. And once you have that number of recalls, then your customers lose confidence. Yeah. Yeah. But the major retailers lose confidence. And because we didn't have a root cause, we couldn't fix what we didn't know or we couldn't find. Yeah. Only the CFIA could find it. The Ontario government couldn't find it. Our independent labs couldn't find it. Uh, and then I've heard through the grapevine that the CFIA has the dirtiest labs in the industry. So has dirtiest labs in the industry. Yeah. From former employees of the CFIA. Yeah. That's unfortunate. Cause like in theory, like if you wanted to put someone out of business, that's one way to do it. Absolutely. No conspiracy theories, but just like that, if the fact is, it is, uh, but that, that like ozone in of itself is a good sterilizer, UV in of itself is a good sterilizer, hydroperoxide, maybe not as good. Like it's good, but like in and of itself, it's not perfect. But the three of them together, that's like incredible. I said it's creating nanoparticles. That's not true. It's creating free radicals. Ah, and the free radicals are doing the kill of any bacteria or funguses or any of that sort of stuff. Yeah. And that's what gives us a really good shelf life is because we're going into that package pathogen free. Yeah. And there's no rot because it's not just, uh, human pathogens we're concerned about. It's, it's rot pathogens to the plant. Right. Yeah. Yeah. Very cool. Okay. So we'll go in another door here before they fire this lineup. You can get a view of the balance of it. We're not going to technically go in. I'm just going to pull the doors. This is the packaging room. This is the packaging room. Yeah. So essentially after the clean work system, it gets elevated. This is their cooling tunnel. The cooling tunnel drops the product down to four degrees Celsius before it's elevated up to the multi-head layer. And then you can see the clamshell dispenser and then they start that automatically dispenses 142 grams. Um, and then the girls, the girls tuck it in. Yeah. Uh, just to make sure that there's no leaves hanging out in the seal. And, um, yeah, we're just coming back from lunch and you can see product being fed up on the top like a bear. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's stunning. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Very cool. It looks like, uh, from a distance, it kind of looks like a, like some sort of like dragon. Oh yeah. I see like a body and then like a face. Yeah. Uh, and then the neck. Um, but yeah, this is, this is like insane. I can't imagine how fast this must be. Like, so it's just one person operates the whole well, there'll, there'll be five people in here. Okay. Um, between handling all the clam shells, the harvester, now on the other side, there's a way checker label application system, uh, all the rest of the technology. Okay. And how many, how many clamshells are you guys, uh, putting out per day roughly now? So we can produce 40, our line speeds here, or we're all designed for 40 clamshells per minute. Um, wow. We probably run 35, 33, 33, 35, and that's going all, all day. Yeah. Wow. Yeah. So, you know, we have some products that we have to back blend. They have to pre harvest, call it arugula, to back blend with the lettuce. Yeah. Um, so that part of the production line ends up slowing down. So yeah, if you wanted to average, uh, it's probably 30 clamshells a minute. Um, and then, well, you can see them traveling across. Oh, cool. Yeah. And that goes to the boxing line, I'm guessing. Yeah. We'll show the boxing line. Yeah. Very cool. So yeah, you can see the, the little packages of salad going across the building. Very cool. And then in here. So once, once the product is cut, it's not touched by anyone. Nope. Wow. That was cool. Even just the sound, it sounds like an electric car. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Totally. So did you, is that a recent purchase? You've had it for a while? Uh, that's about maybe a year and a half. Oh, I've had it now. Um, you know, keeping up to, as I said to my partner, my, my cat, as well as my capital partner, um, that, you know, every, we have to look at what just whatever the bottleneck is. And he completely agreed. Yeah. And I said, you know, to keep up to 40 clam shells a minute, uh, building a box, taping a box, getting the clam shells in, that's, that turns into five people. Wow. So that machine like that room replaces five people. Yeah. Wow. So the girl still like we could, yeah, you still some, just her stacking, you know, our next robot will probably be a boxing or a palletizing robot where there's a robot that picks the box up and sticks it on a pallet. Yeah. Um, so if, yeah, if we got to, you know, if we double the foot footprint by regrowing the crop or 1.5 times what we're outputting, then we're going to need that kind of equipment, right? Yeah. Um, just because you know, it's that girl has to work in that cooler all day long. Yeah. That's right. That's another thing that you may, people may not realize that it's, uh, it's refrigerated in there. Yeah. So, but this is not where you store the product. This is, or it is where you store the product as well. Yeah. So this gets stored for shipping. And then it's picked up every day, I'm guessing. Yeah. Pretty much. Four days, five days a week. Five days a week. Yeah. Uh, yeah. Five or six. Yeah. So we store all our packaging so that the clamshell is cold before we load it. Interesting. Um, the box is cold so that we don't break the cold chain in our facility at all. Right. I never even thought like what, what a smart idea, because if you have a warm clamshell and you have cold, but like, there's going to be some condensation for me. Yeah. Just from the clamshell itself. Yeah. Uh, which is interesting, especially this time of year when it's more humid, you know, I've never even thought about that. Is that, is like, how did you figure these kinds of things out? Uh, just, well, no, it's just what should be the right process and procedure. Okay. We are, we're taking warm, you know, we had all these clamshells sitting out here and they're sitting at ambient temperature and now we're taking them into a cooler. Well, we have enough cooler space. Let's put them in the cooler. Right. And then actually then we find out that that's actually the protocol that all the lettuce packers in California use. Ah, right. So yeah. Um, wow. Amazing. And then here is again, technically we're not really supposed to be going here. Yeah. This is, uh, this is the, the labeling labeling and weight checking and metal detection. Uh, next step for us, we'll probably put in X-ray. Um, that's just to make sure there's nothing, no containers at all. And that's just a food safety thing, right? Yeah. Yeah. No, for sure. It's actually funny. I was, um, I had some like chickpea pasta the other day and I was cleaning the plate and there was a piece of like hard, hard, it felt like steel. Right. And I was like, if I'd been into that, I would have broken it too. Yeah. So it's something that you don't think about when you're at a small scale and it's not really practical to be able to rent that kind of stuff. But here it's actually really important because like you're producing so much food that the odds eventually like metal will end up from the plate or a screw comes out by the metal that's right there. Right. Yeah. Really smart. Amazing. Very cool. Realize that like product quality with food is number one. Like people are not going to buy your product if it's not high quality. Like if you're, if that's the market you're going for, if you're trying to go for price, that's one thing. Yeah. But if you're trying to go out to the market that uh, wants high quality product, but the actual like packaging is beautiful and it looks really cool. Yeah. And maybe even like the product visually looks good, but it doesn't taste good. Yeah. People aren't going to put like people won't repeat purchasing. It's like the most important thing. And I think a lot of people in the industry like lose sight of that because it's like they want people to see it in the store or investment money or whatever it is. But the product itself is the most important thing. It is. It's what you're producing. It's what people are consuming. Yeah. And I learned this lesson like very early on, uh, at selling at farmer's markets. Like if I saw, if let's say there was a tomato and it wasn't like you know, like the quality wasn't good for whatever reason, I would still bring it. But like people, if it doesn't taste good, people, those people, you, you're actually doing a disservice because those people not only, uh, are, are having a bad experience, but they're not going to come back and buy it again. That's right. So that was a very early lesson I learned as well. That's the only thing. The only reason I've succeeded or, or even I'm even still here in this industry is because quality is everything. Uh, as long as you have your quality, you will always have customers, right? Yeah. And that's, you know, we supply the biggest chains in the industry and they, they are supporting us because their customers are buying our product. And the only reason that we keep buying it is because it's quality product. Yeah. Yeah. A very simple form of that is success. Yeah. Cost of productions are one thing. There's lots of other issues, but as long as you are outputting quality, you're not going to have, you're going to have a customer. Yeah. So yeah, that's, I think that's a important takeaway from seeing this incredible facility you have. Thank you so much, Ian, for showing the facility. I think this will inspire many, many people to want to get in the industry, uh, and get interested in automation and technology and how it can apply to agriculture and more, maybe more important than that is creating a high quality product that will actually contribute to the health of people, which is really cool. So thanks so much for having me. Yeah, absolutely. If, uh, if anyone wants to, uh, uh, learn more about greenbelt and, uh, yourself, is there greenbeltorganic, uh, dot CA, um, and buy our product at retail? Yeah. Website's on there. I can definitely, I highly recommend the product. I, it's my, it's my go-to salad green. Yeah. Uh, and, and I, generally believe in the product that you're, that you're growing here. So, uh, it makes me happy to, to, to buy it every time and know that I'm like what I'm eating, what's going into the soil is like the highest quality salad greens that with the current knowledge we have can be produced. Yeah. Which is really cool. Yeah. That is awesome. Um, and if you do buy our product, uh, and do enjoy it, please do comment on our website because I actually take comments from our website. There's actually one posted over on the wall there for my staff of, um, and actually if you take a picture of it, it's, it's actually a great testimonial. I take the comments that come in on our website and I actually send them to the executives of every one of our major chains that buys our product because that's the only way we get the shelf space and that's the way you support local. Yeah. And supporting local is really important to support all the jobs that we have people that we have employed here. Yeah. A hundred percent. It's a certain circular economy and it's really important, particularly in agriculture, that you support our products. For sure. Yeah. A hundred percent. Cool. Thanks so much. Yeah.