CARTIER CROPS // SUPER COCO COIR ORGANIC MIX
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=L7KGGLcHERU
People & Blogs
 You might think we will mix a super soil with cocoa quire but we aren't going to do that at all. Instead we are going to use super soil at the bottom of the pot to help with drainage since the cocoa quire is light and we only mix the worm castings with the cocoa quire. Worm castings will not be available immediately and will take up to three weeks to break down within the media. You have to keep in mind that cocoa has no nutrient elements and yes we can buy cocoa with additives but we won't have control over what uptakes and how the cocoa processes the media nutrients. This is why you see so many organic or soil growers with potassium deficiencies and other elements throughout the cycle. We will play god and help the plant thrive by supplementing the cocoa with nutrients using veg plus bloom and a few other elements to help aid in the super growth you'll witness in this course. Since we are using roots organics and worm castings for nitrogen this will give us a lift as we make it past the vegetation stage. We won't have to add many nutrients as the super cocoa will aid the plants for up to three weeks even four weeks. Depending on how many pots you'll be using we must get the pots ready a few weeks before placing our 8 ounce pots into the 5 gallon pot. Why? We want to water the pots with a nutrient mix to prep the cocoa so the nutrients will be available after we pot otherwise it will take a few weeks to break down as we mentioned. Here's a list of items you'll need. Roots organic or organic soil, cocoa choir without additives, worm castings for nitrogen, gloves, 5 gallon pots, veg plus bloom nutrients, ph up and down or nutrients you will be using, reverse osmosis water not tap water, drain tray with riser, this is optional but you will need a drain tray. I will show you how to mix a 5 gallon pot and use the same procedure for the remaining pots. Step one, get your roots organics or your organic media and place three double handed scoops into the container. Make sure to spread evenly at the bottom. Step two, instead of mixing the worm castings and cocoa in a separate bucket I like to add 10 double handed scoops of cocoa choir and three double handed scoops of worm castings. Don't worry about filling the five gallon pot to the top and if you have small hands add a few more scoops of each to the mix. The goal is to fill any pot 85% full leaving room for topping later. Step three, after placing the worm castings in the pot you can mix the cocoa choir and worm castings until you see it evenly distributed. It won't be perfect and that's fine. Do your best to combine the two medias together. After this point we need to make our first mix of nutrients to water the pots even though we will not plant our babies in for a few weeks. I call this activating the super cocoa. Once we transplant the roots will get active, a little trick I use to get stuff cracking. Here is a schedule Veg plus Bloom wants us to follow but we will be adding a few other elements to help the media develop over the next few weeks. The schedule makes it easy to use without complicating things and in the future you can run my custom blends for an even more outstanding result. The mix we're about to make will be for pots and not seedlings. Keep this in mind and don't confuse the two. The recipe will be used calls for one teaspoon of dirty to one gallon of water, one sixteenth teaspoon of life to one gallon of water and one teaspoon of Sakswell to one gallon of water. But before we add those to our bucket we need to add silica to the mix. Silica will help the stem walls of the plant along with heat and stress that may occur throughout the cycle. I like to use Armor C but you can use any silica on the market suitable for plants. Always remember to add silica before adding any other nutrient to your water mix. This rule is for every time you make a nutrient mix whether with this blend or another. Time to make our nutrient mix. Step 1. Add 5 ml of Armor C to the one gallon of water now. Replace the cap and shake for 30 seconds or so and allow the mix to sit for 10 minutes. Step 2. Add the Veg Plus Bloom Dirty Base at one teaspoon per gallon of water and wait 5 minutes. Step 3. Add the Sakswell or Saks at one teaspoon per gallon. Shake well and wait 5 minutes. Step 4. Finally add your life to the recipe and we are good to go. You want to pH the mix to 5.5 as the pH will rise over time. Now water your empty pot with a half gallon of water and we will use the remaining water tomorrow. Again you will follow this procedure for 4-6 pots. If you are using FEMS, you know what you have in terms of females but for Farmer Freeman users or regular seed users, always pop more seeds than you need to. After sex testing, you will have a 50% male to female ratio and from here you will know what you will have to run. If you plan to use clones, you want to prep your cocoa as soon as you make the cuts for the clones. If you picked up the clones from a dispo or a friend, give yourself a few weeks before transplant. You want to make sure the super cocoa is conditioned before transplanting. In the next video I'm going to show you how to transplant your seedlings into the 8oz cup to get things started before we transplant into our 5g pot.