The impact of climate change on Colorado farmers
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Lcc9MlHzdxM
News & Politics
 As a result of climate change, we're experiencing, we believe, more frequent and more intense droughts. Drought conditions are changing the scope of agriculture here in Colorado. Right now, our snowpack is a main source of water supply, both for our homes and for our crops. We're getting less water. It may melt earlier and it's going to be warmer and so all that combines for less supply, more demand for water and more shortages. This trickles through the entire agricultural system. Less water means potential for a smaller crop yield or a chance that crops fail because of the drought, which in turn means less food for us and for our livestock. Regardless of the topical result, the underlying problem is the same expense. Farmers are investing in different irrigation systems and turning to drought tolerant crops. But ultimately water is a critical input to growing things in Colorado. More money to battle a problem with multiple dollar signs and in agriculture. We're looking at 3 to 5% decreases for each month over the course of a year. That is an extreme drought. Productivity can be reduced by 50 to 60% in a given year because of drought conditions. Wage decreases of 2 to 3% for each month that we experience really extreme drought. There's no one size fits all solution. It's one glass and we've got lots of straws going into it and when water goes to one user, it means less water somewhere else. But everyone can pitch in. Keep it on the forefront of everyone's minds. It's not going anywhere. Even if we have a big rainstorm that temporarily eases the pain, this is an issue that's not going anywhere. It's going to get more severe. thanhine is a plus Bohusi unit. It's two, three stone who brought media but there's no the pressure under the Anyose curse woos. When water goes to bear on the air, this was very都iennent most ź, this is the нек再來 word. So thank you. But there's anything else I got? The cut later on that the field that we're holding on we're sharing is closer to about showers and closing. What a little moment ... Form is still moreíamos. Let's once cut this place from plants and it's also moreенная livingним then it's time to go on? Here we go. I'm already just fucked up. Go ahead. University Stream Patrick? Well, it's too nice.