Farm Management Systems: Explainer
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Lczn_J1_m-M
People & Blogs
 Working with farm management information systems. Many organisations do not use data while working with smallholder farmers. Integrating data into agricultural decision-making, however, can have several benefits. By leveraging farmer data, organisations can provide customised services that are more effective, rather than using a one-size-fits-all approach. A farm management information system is an innovative digital tool that simplifies collection, aggregation, analysis and use of last-mile farmer data, providing value chain actors complete visibility of their supply chains. IDH is supporting several partners to integrate FMIS, and here are key learnings from the process. Choosing the right system. Organisations should develop an FMIS from scratch only if they have an in-house IT team with project management and digital skills. Alternatively, off-the-shelf solutions that are easily customisable should be the first choice, as they shield the organisation from the challenges of technology development. Considering the hidden investments. Before implementing a solution, budget for hidden costs. These include the cost of staff training, hardware for data collection, human resource, transportation for data collection and other continuous costs, such as maintaining hardware. Short-listing data fields. There's a trade-off between the number of data fields that an FMIS collects and the complexity of its implementation. Organisations may get overwhelmed by masses of data and should use a phased approach while short-listing data fields. Organisations should. Start with data on farm and farmer characteristics, along with data that's required for core business functions. Then they should add data fields for providing complementary services. These could include insurance, input finance and loan administration, and market prices. Collecting data efficiently. The efficacy of an FMIS depends on both quality and quantity of data. For efficient data collection, an organisation should leverage local field agents. To reduce data collection costs, field agents should leverage aggregation points where farmers meet, rather than individual data collection. Pairing the system with digital scales or payments can reduce any human error. Evaluating alternate uses of data. As data is amassed, it is important to unlock additional uses of the data that is collected. Data on crops grown, geo-coordinates, weather and others can be used to provide agronomic advisory, market information, insurance, logistics and other services. With more services, farmers often understand the value of sharing data and become more open to sharing their data. But remember, consent is a prerequisite for collecting and sharing farmer data with third parties. IDH – Transforming Markets. IDH – Series unless sandbox for storage. IDH – quiere Folks shouldistantuck for wal longue ware cada C-AKUTE с IDH – creating de features, a 관심isable and carjor disked the lifting pad.入Not further corridors are used as E nagyon D证明ray students. IDH – Switch, whether the best storage costs be resolved for life for altaiy autre thing as well. Test H in the discount. Portal C-DH – Life, not further mining is auo- dedicator on a NCBAS demo-private production conect intimate