[Roblox] Egg Farm Simulator: BEST EASTER EGGS TO GET (LEVEL UP FAST)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lgZaMuomgLo
Gaming
 How is everyone doing? It's your boy Lazio back at it again and today I will give you my opinion on what the best easter eggs there are on egg farm simulator folks. So there are at the moment 20 different easter eggs. So like we got like a kinkobra, dragon, like 20 different easter eggs. And a question I get a lot of times is, ladies sir, what easter eggs should I get? And this completely depends on where you are at the game because if you are just getting started, you're going to retire your first time. You're going to get completely different easter eggs than when you're going to retire like if you already retired a lot, a lot, a lot of times. So I'm going to get started. If you are just beginning with egg farm simulator, you're going to retire your first time. I highly recommend getting like 10, 20 black eggs. With those 10, 20 black eggs, you're going to get a good start for your second retirement. And at the beginning, I highly recommend upgrading the good night and if possible, getting the demeaning or dragon egg. Basically, the good night will just give you an overall damage boost. It will increase your damage to second but also increase your attack damage, which is pretty good. So good night, I highly recommend upgrading this one. Spend most of your eggs like 75, at least 75 till 90% of your eggs. Only good night, any remaining couple eggs you got, you can try to get the demeaning egg or the dragon egg. The dragon egg will only specifically increase your attack damage. But if you get a good night damage, it will just like multiply over each other. So that's pretty dope. That's why my attack damage is also higher than my regular damage to second. Like if you get the dragon egg, it's going to help you out a lot at the beginning. But you've got to do it yourself. So that's why I love the good night egg. It's just going to go automatic damage second. And this one, you've got to click yourself. Of course, you can do automatic but still. And then the demeaning egg, which will increase your critical attack. And this one, especially if you're going to grind for the highest level possible. If you just actually want to go to the highest level, you can get to the demeaning egg. It's going to help you out because it's going to increase your critical attack damage. Which can get really, really, really, really high with this one. But of course, at the beginning, it will just give you some small boost. Which is going to help you out like 15% each upgrade. If you get like 3 upgrades, you will still get 45% higher critical attack damage. So it's going to help you out. But I recommend at the beginning spending most of your eggs on the good night. So if you get to the middle, middle beginning, you're already retired a couple times. Like 5 times. You're already getting already some hundreds of black eggs. It's going good. All good. All good. I recommend again, upgrading your good night. Just keep upgrading your good night. Look at this. I got a level 1.6 billion. Just keep upgrading your good night. The demeaning also. Just keep upgrading the meaning and the dragon. But I also recommend upgrading the Wonderland egg only if you get trophies. That's right. If you get trophies, I recommend upgrading the Wonderland. Which is going to help out your trophies so much. You won't believe it. It's going to be awesome. If you don't have any trophies at all, I'm giving away at the moment 3 trophies on my Discord. A link to my Discord will be in the description. Giving away 3 trophies at the moment. You can win them. All you got to do is just join my Discord link again in the description. If you don't have any trophies, don't upgrade to Wonderland because it will be useless. It's just going to be a waste of your black eggs. Next to that, I also recommend upgrading the favorite egg which will increase the eggs you get from every chicken. I know, I know, it's also a little bit complicated. Eggs drop, but it's basically increasing the value of the egg. Not how many eggs it drops, but just increasing the value of the egg. So instead, if you got like 100% boost, instead of 10 eggs you will get 20 eggs. I got 100,000k boost, so I'll get like 1,000 times more eggs out of the chicken. I recommend upgrading this a bit, the favorite egg. Also, I recommend upgrading the Newton egg. The Newton egg, oh boy, oh boy, there we go. Eggs from exceptions, that is right. If you get an exception, oh man, you're happy. Like, oh my gosh, yes, exceptions. Oh, I'm so rich. Eggs, come to me, come to me, come to Uncle Acer. But if you upgrade the Newton egg, oh my gosh, you're gonna get so rich from the exception egg. Because they will even give more eggs. Like a Krypton also in the middle beginning. Upgrade your Newton, like not crazy much. But just upgrade it a couple times. And also last but not least, the radioactive. This one is really, really expensive. Because it's gonna, every next upgrade is exponential. Exponential. Exponential. Like, it's just becoming expensive, extreme fast. Look at this, level 28 to get level 29, 510 million black eggs. But I recommend getting this to like level 5 or so. Like, some low level. But it's gonna help you steal out a lot. It will basically increase the chance you will get a mutated boss. And you are going to need mutated bosses to get black eggs. Folks, you get black eggs out of mutated bosses. That's right. So, if you get a little bit later on the game. I also, I just recommend upgrading the radioactive a lot more. Just keep upgrading it. Also, don't forget about the good knight, the demeaning, and the dragon. You just gotta keep upgrading the meaning, the good knight, and the dragon. They're gonna help you out. Also, upgrade the feybrack a bit more. The newton a bit more. But also start upgrading others like the idol. The idol, it's gonna help you level up a lot faster. If you upgrade this one, you will go to the next level faster. So, at the beginning, this one's so useless. Because you're even struggling killing the regular chickens at low level. But if you get further in the game, this one is gonna, it's gonna help you out. Like, if you get middle-aged game, like, you already retired a couple times. Like, I don't know, like, 10, 20 times. Something like that. This one's gonna help you out a lot, a lot. I highly recommend it. It's gonna save you a crap ton of time. Also, the garbage egg. It's gonna decrease the cost of hiring and leveling up. Farmers, just upgrade a couple times. Also, gonna help you out. Not that crazy much, but it's still gonna help you out. Also, upgrade the scientist one a couple times. This one will basically increase the chance you will get an exception. And it's gonna be, this one's gonna be very, very, very good. In combination with the newton, sorry, with the newton. Because newton will increase the eggs you get from exceptions. And the scientist will increase the chance you do get an exception. So, both combined, they are very good friends together. And scientist egg, again, this one's very, very expensive. But I still recommend just upgrading it a lot. Because it's gonna help you out. And last but not least, I recommend upgrading the present egg. This one, it's like the last one you should upgrade. Do not spend too many of your eggs on it. It's not that crazy good. But, you know, it still can help you out a lot. It will basically give you 10 times eggs. And the chance is very small. And if you upgrade it, the chance will get bigger. It will still stay very small. That's why I don't recommend spending too many eggs on it. You will get 10 times more eggs. Of course, 10 times more eggs. It's pretty nice. But the thing you actually want to wait for is a combination of this, the present egg and an exception. If you get like, the chance is extreme. So like less than 1%. But if you do get that combination, you will get in one time a crap ton of eggs. And you will be able to upgrade a lot, a lot of your NPC guys. So those are the eggs at the middle of the late game. And last but not least, at the late game, when you get further in the game, I just recommend upgrading all your other eggs. Every one of them. The unstable one. Yeah, the unstable one. The cactus one. The eggplant. The volcano. The ninja. The king cobra. Hourglass. Treasure. And super. Like, again, those are just like the remaining in the late game. They're just going to upgrade your ability time and stuff like that. They're not that good. Like 44% sex to your scenario. It's going to be nice to have. But I don't think it is really worth it to spend a lot of your eggs on it. I recommend just spending 1% of the eggs you get on those remaining ones. The unstable. Cactus. Eggplant. Volcano. Ninja. King Cobra. Hourglass. Treasure. And super. And the remaining eggs all on your goodnight. Demeaning. Dragon. Radioactive. Faber egg. Newton. Wonderland. If you got trophies. And garbage. And idle. Wait. I said them all yet? Yeah, I said them all. But again, keep upgrading your goodnight. It's going to help you out a lot. Keep upgrading the dragon. It's going to help you out a lot. The demeaning a lot. And the others. It is just like. They're going to help you out. But it is more for the late game. So for example. When I go attack now. I barely do any damage to the chicken at all. As you can see. But the thing. It is killing the chicken. Is the instant kill. That's right. The critical damage folks. If I do a critical damage. I'm doing a crap ton of damage. So in late game. You got to upgrade. Your demeaning and dragon egg. Since they are going to keep you alive. On the game. You're going to keep grinding them. You can also activate abilities. And of course. If you get further in the game. Upgrading the abilities. It's going to be a bit more worth. Because it's going to be very cheap. Compared to the black eggs. Yeah. For example. I only spent like a million. A black eggs on them. But watch this. If I go like this. 812394567. Special combination folks. Highly recommend using that combination. There we go. We're just instantly killing the chickens. For over a minute. If you're low level. This is of course going to be nice. But it's not going to give you enough black eggs. To compromise. Compromise. No. To get the eggs back. Wait. That sounds so complicated. I don't know. I just had a mental breakdown or something. But again. Just don't do it at the beginning. Just get the goodnight dragon. Demeaning. Then the wonderland. If you got trophies. Newton. Faber egg. And radioactive a bit. And the rest of the black eggs. Don't spend yourself on it yet. Don't get them. If you get them. You can just reroll. If you go on them. You can just reroll them right over here. Yeah. You can just reroll them. I highly recommend doing that. Because every next black. You stack your open. It's become more expensive. So if you're getting any e-stack you don't need. Like you get an hourglass. Just reroll it. And get a good one. You're gonna use at the beginning. Thank you so much for watching. I will probably also put this in the description. Since it's gonna become a bit complicated. Please hit the like button. Also if you got any questions. Let me know in the comment section below. Hit sub button. We already passed 88,888 subs. And I'll see you on my next video. See ya. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye.