Top 3 Must have Tractor IMPLEMENTS for your Farm or Homestead! TOP Tractor Attachments!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LHKFgvUOmNk
Entertainment
 Hey everyone, did you just buy your first tractor and are unsure what implements to buy? Stay tuned with us here at the Clinch River Homestead because we're going to talk about the top three implements that you must have for your farm or homestead or your new tractor purchase. Roll it! Okay, so I think the very first implement that we must talk about is right here. So this implement called a brush hog or bush hog, it's made by Titan Implements. I think it's their medium duty model and it's a six foot brush hog. I think this is probably the number one implement that you're going to want to have for your homestead. If you're enjoying the content you're watching today and would love to see more, hit that subscribe button and tick that little bell. You'll get notified on all of our videos just like this because every homestead has grass to mow and every homestead has brush to clear. And it's an ongoing process, so I think this right here is your top one must have. Number two. So the second must have implement that I think every new tractor owner should have is this beauty right here. Here's a six foot Titan Implements box blade. It has a, just as the term refers, it has a blade right in the back of this thing here so that you can scrape up the ground. It also has rippers on the front here so that you can really dig into that ground. The other cool thing with the box blade, you could use it as a reverse front end loader. So not only can you pull with a box blade, but you can push on the other end on the back side because there's a blade on the back of this too. It's amazing what you can accomplish with a box blade. So if you have a lot of gravel, if you have a lot of dirt roads, or if you just have areas that you need to clear on your property to make paths with, this is probably going to be your number one implement for that. So I think this qualifies as your number two implement that is a must have on your homestead. Just the versatility that this thing has. So let's move on to number three. So the number three top implement that you must have for your homestead or farm. Now a lot of people are going to say, wait a minute, pallet forks. What in the world am I going to do with pallet forks? Well, let me tell you something. That thing right behind me there, that's a grapple. Pallet forks can do a lot of the same work that you can do with a grapple. If you need to pick up logs, if you're picking up brush, heck, if you've got to pick up big bales of hay, pallet forks can do it. If you need to move a trailer or something with a hitch on it, you can put a ball on the front fork and use the front end of your tractor to move that implement around or that trailer around. The other thing that these pallet forks are really awesome is they're adjustable. Most of your pallet forks are adjustable. So you can move these in or out depending on what you need to use it for. So this right here is a Titan implement pallet fork. My top three must have for your farm, homestead or your new tractor purchase. So we're going to wrap up the video today. I hope you got some good information out of it. If you'd like to see more content like this, hit that subscribe button, tick that little bell. And for the YouTube algorithm, smash that thumbs up button. Really appreciate you stopping by. We'll see you on the next one.