Promoting Climate Smart Agricultural Initiatives in Cambodia
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LIsPequ2nXo
Nonprofits & Activism
 In recent years, Cambodia, an agriculture-based economy, has seen worsening impacts of climate change, including intense rainfall, high temperatures and sea levels rise. The Prai Veng province, for example, was hit by both floods and droughts in 2018, resulting in losses and damage of up to $16 million. The livelihoods of farmers are especially affected. The Asian Development Bank, with support from the pilot program for climate resilience of climate investment funds, assisted the Royal Government of Cambodia to prepare the strategic program for climate resilience, consisting of seven investment projects and one technical assistance project to provide overarching support for the seven investment projects. Two investment projects relate to the agricultural sector, including the Climate Resilience Rice Commercialization Sector Development Project. This project is helping farmers increase rice production in three largest rice-producing provinces, Batembang, Kampong Thom and Prai Veng, by rehabilitating and climate-proofing irrigation systems and other rural infrastructure. Specific engineering measures were integrated into the design of infrastructure to cope with more rapid flows of floodwater. The project also demonstrates the benefits from laser land levelling to conserve water and improve irrigation water use efficiency. The delivery through people who accept shr нужен Кampong Noch, where they serve a researcher then the fueling of the water use with regeneration and pomelo. In Ky tort Nade, is this slide here under the sediment when l22M orıı is done. My seed is related to the government that is based on theerves in fact, are 1940s? to make the plant more. To assist farmers in reducing the climate risks associated with rice production, the project is pilot testing a weather indexed crop insurance scheme in selected areas. The project is also improving the availability and quality of rice seed by developing a certification system that will result in a more resilient crop. The project also helps create more jobs for women. All in all, the project contributes to economic, social and environmental sustainability of rice farming in Cambodia.