Tractor Rental -  Brush Hog  - Brush Hog Rental - Kubota Rental
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LkcOso82JtU
Autos & Vehicles
 Hey guys welcome back to another episode Homestead Hideaway. Today we have rented a tractor to get control of the pasture. Unfortunately we have not been able to find a good deal on a used tractor so we went ahead and bit the bullet and rented one and we're going to spend the next couple days just clearing out some of this land and getting it kind of ready to go so check it out. After accumulation a day with our latest This is the back part of the property where he is right now and they had torn down a cabin. So there was actually two structures on this property back in the day. So there's two electrical poles for each residence even though this residence no longer exists. But if we do want to build a cabin, an off-grid type cabin, so that actually, this area would be a great spot because it has a really nice view. So ultimately this is where we would like to build. I feel like this is the first time we're able to get down to the fence line. He's going after all that crap. Those crickers that are everywhere. I'm not sure if we're going to get down to the fence. These are the crickers I was speaking of. A nuisance to the property. A nuisance to the property. Thank you. Thank you. And I'm going to hit it again pretty hard today. I'd say I'm about a third of the way done, so we're going to get another third or so done today. And then we got it for tomorrow as well, and then actually into Monday too. So we're going to get a lot of this done as long as this tractor can hold up. And let's get at it. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. All right, guys. All right, guys. We're done with the brush hogging. All right, guys. We're done with the brush hogging. We got a lot of this knocked back. We got a lot of this knocked back. We had a ton of saplings, a ton of those thorn bushes. I don't know the name of them, but they're nasty stuff. We had them over six feet tall. You've probably seen some of the footage. You've probably seen some of the footage. And just got it cleaned up to this at this point. We only had the tractor for a couple days. But I'm happy with it. There's been a long couple days, and it's going back tomorrow. So one step closer to getting this proper usable, and at least now we can see what we have to work with. And we appreciate you guys checking out another episode. And stay tuned. Hit that subscribe button. Let us know you like the videos with a thumbs up. Leave us a comment. Let us know what you're working on. And we'll see you guys on the next video. Take care.