Forest Harvest Methods: Variable Retention Harvest
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lO5slTOeg4w
Education
 There are well over 50,000 forest landowners in Oregon, each with different objectives for their forest. For many, harvesting trees is part of their management plan. In southwestern Oregon, the Bureau of Land Management is using a unique harvest method to create and maintain young and old forest habitat. So what is a variable retention harvest? This is a question that I've gotten a lot. Some people would say, well is it a clear cut? Is it a thinning? In reality, it's kind of somewhere in between. Clear cut is where you take most of the trees off the site, maybe all the trees. A thinning, so a lot of people know what a thinning is. You go through and you take part of the trees and you leave trees behind. So what makes this kind of harvest method unique? The things I would suggest that you key in on would be if you see clumps of trees that we're left behind after the harvest is complete. Clumps of trees, individual trees. If you see kind of a diversity of vegetation coming up instead of just all one type, you'd say that's probably a variable retention harvest. They are definitely distinctly different treatments. The reason we're leaving a lot of those trees behind is so it can help us meet our objectives. We have objectives for timber production, for early successional habitat, and for the late successional habitat for a portion of rotation. The big, broad goal is species diversity. And we want to also keep the common species common. So how do we do a variable retention harvest? How do you decide what trees stay and what trees go when you're doing a variable retention harvest? Well, to me, that's the fun part because there's a lot of care and thought that goes into what trees stay and what trees go. The type of equipment that's used, a lot of this equipment is standard equipment that's being used in the logging world right now. You have, it depends on your slope and your aspect, your topography, but you know, we have cable systems. We have ground-based, you know, cut-to-length systems. And the arrangement of trees that we leave behind, it will be in a patchy arrangement. So you'll have groups of trees, patches of trees, you'll have individual trees scattered around the unit, all different species, all different sizes of trees. What we're trying to do with this ecological forestry is we're trying to emulate natural disturbances, a variety of stands, a variety of different ages, so that we can have habitat on federal lands for the whole suite of organisms. Because really we want a high level of species diversity. And a lot of the species that we know of as common species are also on the decline. One that I'm aware of is the rufous hummingbird. Another one is the orange-crowned warbler. And so it's important to us as federal land managers to make sure that we're providing habitat and conditions that are good for a variety of different species, so that we can keep all of our native plants and animals and insects and, you know, other organisms, so we can keep those all thriving. Variable retention is just one harvest method used in Oregon's forests. Click to see how other harvest methods are being used to achieve landowners' objectives in a different corner of the state.