ICEMGD 2023—Adoption of Climate Smart Agricultural Practices and Livelihood Vulnerability due to...
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lp623KDN0-8
Education
 Hello everyone, this is Dr. Raul Sabistar and I'm working as an assistant professor in University of Agriculture, Praslavad, Pakistan. So today we are going to discuss a very important topic which is adoption of sustainable agriculture practices and livelihood vulnerability due to climate change among smallholders agroecosystem. in Pakistan. So before discussing about the topic of research, I would like to show you some pictures of the climate change disaster which we have faced in Pakistan last year. So climate is changing and we are facing the disaster and we are if we move with the same pace so we have to face this kind of disaster and I must say that we can face the disasters, climatic disaster with more severity in future and we are giving a bad future to our next generation if we are going with the same pace and we are not considering the changing environment. So all of us know that the population is expected to grow day by day and it day and it is expected to grow almost 10 million by 2050 and there are more than 570 million farmers farms in the world and out of which more than 475 million farmer farms are smaller than two hectares which are which are which is considered as the smallholders farms and these smallholders are often being ignored in debates on the future of agriculture and left out of policy making at several levels. In general, climate smart agricultural practices are focused on efficient use of natural resources by cutting down the heavy dependence on synthetic inputs decreases social and environmental externalities. The adoption of sustainable agriculture practices have not suitably justified huge funds and substantial efforts that have been dedicated to promote their benefits. So agricultural policy makers have started this appointment and have pleaded to understand the phenomena that how the and why the climate is changing so drastically and it the imp and we are facing the impacts. So these were the objectives to assess the climate smart adoption of climate small agriculture practices and the level of vulnerability due to climate change on selected farms. To achieve these objectives we have selected selected this we had selected this the Kothuhar region which is the sub-mountainous region in the north of Punjab province of Pakistan. So these were the locations we have identified and we visited these farms of the smart holders and collected data and And both qualitative and quantitative methods were used in this study to achieve these objectives. In addition to this adoption of small CSA practices were dependent variables and some independent variables were selected like household age, how age is affecting the adoption of sustainable agriculture. And similarly, the family size, household experience, literacy, labor and extra. And to check the livelihood vulnerability, we have chosen these indices, livelihood vulnerability indices and we have modified these equations according to the assessment of our research area and the situation of the smallholder farmers. Then we checked out the livelihood vulnerability developed indices developed by Intergovernmental Panel for Climate Change and then Livelihood Effect Index. So these were the major components we have used, we have developed for the analysis of livelihood vulnerability due to climate change. So the result shows that there are high adoption of climate smart agricultural practices in the district in Chakwal region. It's a Chakwal district of the name of the district in Potohar region. Only 8.2% were the high adopters in Chakwal district and 14.1% smallholders were high adopters of the fall in the category of high adopters of climate smart agricultural practices. So you can see it's a minute percentage among the smallholders which are going to adopt the climate smart agricultural practices. Then climate smart agricultural practices individually, how the farmers are adopting. So we can see the result in the results that 79.6% farmers in Chakwal district, they choose to go for non-chemical weed control and 70.4% in Rawalpindi district. Similarly, the data shows that literacy rate of the farmers and the extension services affiliation of the farmers with the government and non-government organizations. And the assess to agri-inputs have positive impacts on the adoption of sustainable agricultural practices in Chakwal district. In Rawalpindi, there is all these practices like land size and the part size of the farmers, literacy, extension services and affiliation with the government and non-government organization. And access to agriculture and access to agriculture and these all practices, these all variables have positive impact on the adoption of sustainable agriculture practices. So major components of livelihood, vulnerability, and access shows that Chakwal district, among the Chakwal and Rawalpindi district, Rawalpindi district is more vulnerable to natural vulnerability and climate variability. While the other one, while the second one, which component is more affecting the farmers' livelihood is financed. So in the next, these results exposure is more dangerous. The farmers are more exposed, smallholders' farmers are more exposed to climate change impacts in both districts. So we can see that we can see in the graphical representation of the data. And vulnerability indicators of livelihood effect index shows that natural capital is creating more vulnerability among the smallholders' farmers in the both districts. So the significant in conclusion, we can conclude with these results, that the significant role of social capital on adoption of just, on adoption suggest that need of launching and strengthening, strengthening the regional and local institutions and service providers to speed up and sustain technology adoption. So we have to adopt the technology, which is safer, and which can serve the nature and which have low impact on the climate change. The research work on assessment of smallholder farmers' livelihood vulnerability to climate change can contribute to developing effective adaptation measures and ensuring sustainable agriculture development. So, and the climate smart agriculture practices, you know, the adoption study can provide useful understanding for policymakers, which are more important for agriculture sector. Further research examining the productivity hazards, environmental and welfare implications of adoption of specific climate smart agriculture practices and in combinations. So, this is important to fill the knowledge gap in bringing out the profound effect to bear on the formulation of policies related to agriculture sector. So, this is all about for, from my side, thank you very much for your listening and cooperation, and for listening and your patience. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you.