Case IH Precision Farming Tools: Soil Quality Technology
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lq2Fd9LgEgQ
Science & Technology
 How well do you really know your soil? Chances are it's not as well as you think. Within a given acre your soil quality can vary from row to row, even foot to foot. Factors like soil type, moisture levels, temperature, residue, organic matter, and more can all be different and all of these can make a significant impact on the success of your crops. And if your soil varies that much across one acre, just imagine the differences you'll find across 80, 800, or even a couple of thousand. There isn't a simple one-field-fits-all solution to this issue, so to address it you're going to have to get up close and personal with your soil. Fortunately the latest tech makes that possible. New sensing technologies can read your soil row by row from within the furrows, providing you with a wealth of valuable data, like the moisture level and temperature your seeds need to germinate, the amount of organic matter present to infuse your soil with nutrients to help your crops grow, and the amount of harmful residue that can get in the way of proper emergence and growth. You just let the sensors collect the data, and the result is a detailed mapping of your fields. Armed with this knowledge, other precision solutions help you adjust accordingly and automatically. Application control technologies will automatically change seeding rates based on the yield potential of different areas of the field. Some other solutions even allow you to plant multiple hybrids by prescription, all in one go. Precision downforce technologies allow for automatic variation in downforce based on inch by inch soil conditions, so seed depth is optimal every time. Precision row cleaning solutions allow you to adjust row cleaners from your cab, key to removing harmful crop residue. Finally, precision fertilizer technologies enable variable prescriptive application, so you won't waste it where you don't need it. When you truly know your soil, you can be confident that every seed you plant has the best possible chance at success. To learn more about how precision technology can help you maximize yields in inconsistent soil conditions, talk to your Case IH dealer.