15 Beginner Gardening Mistakes That Nobody Talks About
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lRPpXc03onk
Howto & Style
 If you're about to start a garden and you've only got time to watch one video on YouTube today, it has to be this one because in the next 15 minutes, I'm going to show you 15 most common beginner gardener mistakes that every single beginner gardener makes, but nobody is talking about. How do I know this list of mistakes? Because I personally have made them all. And over the last 10 years, I have watched so many of my students and clients make the exact same mistakes. So if you make it to the end of this video together, we're going to save a ton of time, a whole lot of money and a ton of frustration. So let's get into it. Mistake number one is starting at the hardware store. Oh my goodness. I did this. I just got in my car and drove to Home Depot the second I wanted to start a garden. Listen, if you start at the store, you're going to make so many mistakes and you're going to spend way too much money on things you totally don't need. Stores are literally set up for us to make impulse purchases. And that is exactly what you're going to do. If you start at the store, don't start at the store. Start with a plan. Start at home. Start in your yard. Walk around. Start to picture and plan and dream of the garden you want to create. Don't go to the store for many, many weeks to come until you've got the whole thing planned and mapped out. You'll save a ton of money and a lot of frustration. Mistake number two is starting with just one plant. Most of the advice out there on the internet is to start small, to start simple, to start with just one plant. But I think that's a recipe for quitting. In fact, most people I know that start with just one plant, they're not gardening anymore. The reason why is just one plant is going to be pretty boring. And it's also going to limit your learning. If you instead grow a few different types of plants all together in the garden, it's going to keep the garden so much more interesting. And bonus, these plants actually work together to benefit each other in the garden. When you grow a wide variety of plants in your garden, like leaves and roots and fruit all together, you get this magic combination that protects your soil, makes it easier to keep the garden watered, and it gives you so much more to enjoy and learn from in just one single season. The third mistake is to buy cheap. Listen, so many of us start a garden because we want to save money when it comes to groceries, but that doesn't mean we should opt for the cheapest version when we're setting up our garden. There's a saying my grandpa used to say to me, which is the cheap pay twice. And that's definitely true when it comes to setting up your garden. Instead of trying to buy the cheapest thing possible, you want to get the best quality that you can afford. So when it comes to soil and seeds and plants and tools, raised beds, trellises, simply get the highest quality material that you can afford. That way you'll get to enjoy your garden for years to come and you don't have to keep buying the same cheap thing over and over again. Mistake number four is buying way too many seeds. Oh my goodness, how many times have I done this? When you get a seed catalog or you head to the nursery, you're going to see all kinds of seeds and you're going to want to buy every single one of them. But trust me, this leads to a ton of waste and a lot of overwhelm. When you're first buying your first sets of seeds, hear it from me, you only need to buy seeds for growing things like leaves, lettuces, and greens, and growing some root crops like radishes, beets, and carrots. All the other seeds for the fruit and crops, things like tomatoes, peppers, eggplants, those that get us really excited. They're fun to buy, but they're hard to start, especially for a beginner gardener. So skip the fruit seeds and just buy seeds for greens and roots, maybe for some peas and beans, and that's it. Hold yourself to those small purchases at the beginning. You'll have so much more success. You'll plant every seed that you buy and you won't waste all that money. Mistake number five is starting with tomatoes. Oh, I definitely, definitely did this. Listen, tomatoes are so exciting to grow in the garden, but they're one of the hardest things to grow. They're finicky. They take a really long time to produce fruit. And by the time the fruit comes, a squirrel takes it. It's so overwhelming and frustrating, and there's a lot of easier plants to grow first. That's why I wrote my book, Leaves, Roots, and Fruit. You start with the leaves, graduate to roots, and then you can do tomatoes later if you want. So buyer beware. If you start with tomatoes, you're probably going to be frustrated and you may give up on gardening. So start with leaves first. Number six, starting with containers and pots. I have so many clients and students say, oh, Nicole, I'll never learn how to garden. I can't even keep things in a pot alive. And I'm like, me neither. The hardest kind of plant to keep alive is one that's growing in a container. You've got nothing in nature working for you. The whole container is dependent on you. You've got to water it. You've got to have the perfect soil in here. You've got to babysit this thing to keep it alive, and that's really impossible for a beginner gardener. Instead, you want to start in a small raised bed or actually directly in the ground. Both options are so much easier than starting in a container. And if you want to find some great raised beds, we have a ton of them in the gardenery shop, and I'll put a link for that right below this video. But whatever you do, don't start in a little pot like this one. Mistake number seven is expecting perfection. I cannot tell you how many students and clients that I've had who are so upset that things didn't work out picture perfect like they look at the grocery store. But listen, the garden is the best way to experience nature. And what is the most magical part about nature? It's unpredictability. Why do we love playing games and doing things that take risks? It's because something inside of us actually loves the unknown. Something inside of us craves the possibility that we could wake up tomorrow and things might be surprising. And that's exactly what you get in the garden. Not perfection, but dynamic change that's so entertaining, amusing, and surprising. Mistake number eight is not tying gardening to your daily schedule or fitting it in with an existing habit. Imagine getting yourself a brand new puppy and not figuring out how you're going to have time to walk it or feed it or play with it. That puppy would be pretty unhappy and so would you after just a few hours. And the same is true with your garden. These are living things. These are plants that need your time and attention. They don't need much, but they are going to need you to fit them into your daily routines. I love to use the phrase, don't go inside yet. So I try to find little activities in my day where I'm coming back from a walk or coming in from the store or picking up my kids, any kind of thing where I've been outside. And instead of going straight indoors, I tell myself, don't go inside just yet. I take a little step outside into the garden, do something in just five minutes. And that's how I make sure that my garden continues to grow and thrive. Even when I don't have a lot of time, it took me a while to figure out how to fit the garden into my own busy life as a mom of four and a business owner. But once I figured out the system, I decided to create a book about it and that's called five minute gardener. It's now out everywhere. Books are sold and you can get your copy. I'll put a link right below this video. Mistake number nine is not thinking about your meals. Have you ever taken some time before you start to plan or plant your garden and look at the things you love to eat? Look at the recipes that you love to create things that have been passed down through your family or just routine meals that just you continue to love to make. Look at the ingredients and see what things in those recipes that you could actually grow. Things like basil or arugula or peppers or onions, garlic, very simple plants that often we overlook when it comes to buying seeds or plants, but they're the things that we most commonly use in the kitchen. That's why I created our gardenary planner. This allows you to look at dishes and sides and sauces and salads that you can make each and every season so that you can plan your plants in the garden to be sure that more of your plants don't get wasted out in the garden and instead end up on your plate in the kitchen. Mistake number 10 is not prioritizing your soil. I have seen so many people set up gardens online where they spend a ton of money and time and attention on their raised beds, on their trellises, on all of the setup, and then they throw all kinds of crazy things into their beds to create soil. Listen, the soil is the most important part of your garden. Everything you see on top is a reflection of what's happening underneath. If you've only got time and money to prioritize one thing when it comes to setting up your garden, let it be the soil. I give you my full breakdown on how I set up a great soil blend in my own garden using only natural materials, and that's in my book Kitchen Garden Revival Chapter 4. I'll put a link to it right below this video. Number 11 is being surprised by pests. I have so many friends, clients, students who are like, I started gardening, but the squirrels ate it, the deer got it, the groundhogs got it. I have a ton of aphids. Oh, the caterpillars. They're completely shocked that there's wildlife that actually wants to eat their plants too. Listen, the wildlife surrounding your home or your garden, they've only had grass to eat up until now. So of course they're going to be interested in all the things that you're putting into your garden. Don't be surprised by pests. It's just part of the garden experience. Don't think about pests after you set up your garden. Think about pests right now as you're setting up your garden. Save yourself a bunch of surprise and a lot of disappointment. Mistake number 12 is using fertilizer in your garden. So many beginner gardeners start with that stuff called Miracle-Gro. I made a whole video about why you shouldn't use it, but this stuff ruins your garden. It really taxes your soil. It creates this runoff that destroys the environment and it stresses your plants. It asks your plants to grow really big and fast and productive in an unnatural way. So don't use synthetic fertilizers. Instead, focus on what we've talked about already, the soil. If you focus on building great organic, natural, nutritious soil, your plants are going to grow like a miracle without the fertilizer. The state number 13 is using mulching your garden. I know, I know all the gardeners tell you to do it, but trust me, it is a waste of money and it's a waste of space. Instead of mulching around your plants, just plant leafy greens by seed. Those are going to shade the soil. They'll keep the water intact and they'll give you something productive to harvest instead. Mulch causes lots of problems. It's a hiding place for pests and it actually pulls nitrogen from your soil as it decomposes. So it's just really not worth the time and effort where you could be growing tons of arugula, spinach, and lettuces underneath your plants instead. Number 14 is using pesticides in your garden. Listen, there's actually no such thing as pesticide. It's actually insecticide. Meaning every time you spray, you're not just killing the bad bugs, you're killing the good ones too. I have had so many clients and students that freak out at the first sign of a bug in their garden and they just spray the whole thing to death. Their plants suffer, their whole garden suffers, and lots of innocent bugs die in the process. So you don't need to spray for pests. Instead, you need to learn how to control them organically. And we've got an incredible video coming up in just a few days that's going to show you how to do that. So be on the lookout for that one. And the most ironic of the mistakes, mistake number 15 is searching YouTube for answers about your garden. If you find yourself scrolling for hours watching one YouTube gardener after another, you're going to have what we call analysis paralysis. You're going to have way more information than you need, and it's just going to leave you dazed and confused. Instead, you just need one gardener who knows your local climate, understands a great garden system, and can teach it to you. And that's why we train gardener consultants around the world. In fact, if you want to find a consultant in your area, you can go to gardenery.com, click on that find a consultant tab. We'll match you up with a consultant that knows your climate and how to garden in the exact place where you're trying to grow your own. And by the way, if you're watching this and you are that experienced gardener who knows how to grow in your own climate, then you should definitely become a gardener consultant. We'll put a link for you to do that right below this video. Believe it or not, all these mistakes can be prevented by just giving yourself about five minutes a day to take care of your garden. And that's why I wrote the book Five Minute Gardener. It is out now everywhere books are sold, and you can find out how to order your copy right below this video. Now, do not leave without please, please, please, please, please subscribing to the Gardenery channel. When you subscribe, it tells YouTube to send this video to lots of other people who'd be interested in avoiding mistakes in their garden too. Don't forget to like, and then share this with one, two, maybe three, maybe a hundred of your friends who need to save money and time and frustration in the garden too. Thank you so much for watching and being part of the Gardenery community. I wouldn't be here without you. I'll see you next time.