Lawn Renovation Tools
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lsnHHN9U-qc
Howto & Style
 Whether you're seeding a new lawn or over seeding an existing one, you can get all the equipment you need for the job at your nearby Home Depot tool rental center. You know spring and fall are the best seasons for seeding a lawn because the summer heat and potential winter frost can kill newly planted grass. But before you spread the seed, there are some steps you need to take to ensure good results. Start by removing a plug of your lawn and look to see how much plant debris build up or thatch there is between the top green growth and the grass's roots. If it's greater than half an inch, it's best to remove that thatch so the new seed can make good contact with the soil. One of our highly trained tool rental associates will show you all the features of this class and D thatcher and give you all the instructions you'll need to operate it. Each of these class and D thatchers comes equipped with 28 blades that are easily adjusted to any of five different heights. This will enable you to set the flailing blades to the proper depth for your particular lawn conditions. And the handles fold down on the unit making it much easier to get it to and from the job site. Once the thatch has been removed, it's best to aerate prior to applying the seed, especially if your soil is compacted. An aerator will remove plugs from the soil and these holes will allow air, water and nutrients to reach the grass's roots. This allows the roots to grow deeper which leads to a thicker, healthier lawn that's more heat and drought resistant. At the Home Depot, we carry only the highest quality equipment in our tool rental centers. That's why we proudly feature the class and compact aerator. It's self propelled so no pushing is required. And it's easy to reach hand controls allow you to easily stop and turn. It even comes equipped with lift handles to make it more portable. Next up, it's time to apply the seed. This class and turf seeder is available at all Home Depot rental centers and it's a better way to spread seed than just using a traditional broadcast or drop spreader. This seeder doesn't just apply the seed to the top of the soil. It comes equipped with 26 blades that pass over the soil after the seed makes contact to ensure good soil coverage and better seed germination. These blades can be adjusted to five different heights and its 60 pound capacity hopper easily removes to empty out excess seed. Now if your lawn is in good shape but you simply have some dead spots, you may want to consider just removing and replacing that limited area. Now if that sounds like what you're up against, you'll want to have one of our tool rental associates set you up with this sod cutter. It's self propelled and very easy to operate. It comes with a finger throttle for adjusting its speed and when released, the machine simply stops and idles. The machine's cutting blade can be adjusted to cut up to depths of 2.5 inches and it makes an incredible 20 cuts per second. The result is good clean cuts at a consistent depth, even when cutting curves. Ideal for removing sod for walkways, patios or for creating new flower beds. As you can see, no matter what your lawn challenge may be, your neighborhood Home Depot tool rental center will have all the project know how and equipment you need to get your lawn looking doing it's best.