Rural Development | Introduction | Definitions | Basic Elements of Rural Development.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ltf5BM2dDms
Education
 Hi friends, welcome back to my YouTube channel. Before starting the video, if you are new and haven't subscribed our YouTube channel, press the subscribe button. In today's video, we will learn about the rural development. The term rural development refers to the use of strategies and methods in a single program that mobilize around local communities as units of action. It offers a broad canopy under which all those involved in community groups work, community advancement, and community relations can operate. Rural development is a process that seeks to collectively enhance the well-being and self-realization of those who live outside of urbanized areas. The United Nations defines rural development as Rural development is the process of changing rural communities' traditional ways of life to more modern ones. It can also be described as a movement for advancement. Rural development is a process of change by which the efforts of the people themselves are united, those of government authorities to improve their economic, social and cultural conditions of communities into the life of the nation and to enable them to contribute fully to national program. Basic elements of rural development Whatever the geographic location, culture and historical stage of development of a society, there are at least three basic elements which are considered to constitute the true meaning of rural development. Basic necessities of life Self-respect Freedom Basic necessities of life People have certain basic needs, without which it would be impossible for them to survive. The basic necessities include food, clothes, shelter, basic literacy, primary health care, and security of life and property. When anyone or all of them are absent or in critically short supply, we may state that a condition of absolute underdevelopment exists. Provision of the basic necessities of life to everybody is the primary responsibility of all economies, whether they are capitalist, sociality, or mixed. In this sense, we may claim that economic growth is a necessary condition for improvement of the equality of life of rural people. Which is rural development? Self-respect Every person and every nation seeks some sort of self-respect, dignity, or honor. Absence or denial of self-respect indicates lack of development. Freedom In this context, freedom refers to political or ideological freedom, economic freedom and freedom from social servitude, ignorance, other men, institutions, and dogmatic beliefs. It cannot claim to have achieved the goal of e-development. Servitude in any form reflects a state of underdevelopment.