Day in the Life of a Small Homestead (Daily Spring Routine)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LTSRjqzkMBo
Entertainment
 My favorite part of homesteading is how it keeps us in tune with the seasons. We have some routines that never change such as milking the cow, quiet time in the morning, rest in the afternoons, and three meals a day. But then there's other routines that come and go with the seasons. Spring is crazy and unpredictable and some days we have to be flexible and throw routine out the window. But here's what a typical spring day looks like on our homestead. The cows are in the back pasture right now so that means I've got to take water out there in buckets and I like to do that when I go out there to get Maddie so I saved myself a trip. Hey Maddie. Their water trough is always up here because this area up in the front is like a sacrifice area. I've got this sectioned off into three sections. This pasture backyard I'd actually rather have it in four but that is the way it is for now. Anyways it's in three sections and each one has a gate coming into this front section here. So all that I need to do to rotate my cows to another paddock is just close one gate open another and they're in a new paddock. Easy rotation, a little bit of the lazy way. It's not quite as intense as if I was to move them into like different paddocks all the time and change the size of it and stuff. But those permanent paddocks like that work way better. It's much simpler for me and this way then I'm not needing to take their water way out there to different places. Their water is always just right here. Hero gets a little annoyed every time I take Maddie. Oh these flies. It's so nice once it's into spring and summer that she's out on pasture and not getting her udder all nasty. Really easy to clean right now. A few squirts on the ground just to get any dirt out of the end of the teats. For the first part of our milking I like to go out here and get my chicken chores done. The broilers are doing really well. They need to get moved. They're only a few weeks away from being ready to go in and get processed. They're looking really really good. Excited to have more fresh chicken in the freezer. Here we go chickies! It's really awesome how this grass works after the broilers are on it. So this right here is the first spot they were at. It is tall and lush and nice. And then over there you know it's more brown. It's covered in manure and everything. But that will all turn into that nice beautiful green grass. And the last thing out here real quick is to open up the pen for the layers. I pen them up in here at night and they can get out and free range during the day. I so badly need to get an automatic door for this thing. I actually have one. I've had it for several months. Just haven't installed it yet. That took me a little longer with moving the camera and now she is done. Don't want to leave this milker on too long which I think she just pretty much got done. There's still a little bit left in this one quarter yet too. Coming back on this trail getting the cow bringing her back here is literally got to be one of my favorite parts of the day. So beautiful back here. Birds are singing. Alright get out of the way hero. Absolutely love this funnel for straining the milk. It can hold about a gallon of milk in the top of it. So you can just pour it in and get ready for the next gallon coming in here. Michelle has been making lots of butter which is awesome. She stocks up for the winter. We don't have that nice yellow cream going on in the winter. Don't get as much cream either because she's on hay and so summer, spring is a really good time to be making butter. I've also been making lots of ice cream and having that with fresh strawberries. I've usually been getting at least three and a half, sometimes even up to four gallons every morning. This was just barely three gallons. Cody gets out of bed and starts his day pretty quickly but me, not so much. I don't like to chat or do anything really except drink tea and have some quiet time for at least an hour after I get up. So while Cody milks the cow and exercises, I just enjoy some time to myself until her kids get up at 8. So many people ask me how in the world my kids stay in bed until 8 o'clock. This is just the way I've done things since my kids were babies. At one point I had a newborn, a one year old and a two year old and I had adrenal fatigue. I did sleep training with my babies because we were all just happier that way. Before you judge me, I'm not a mean mom. I didn't leave my babies to cry it out. I just taught them how to fall asleep on their own and I put them to bed at a time in the evening to where they would wake up at the time I wanted them to in the morning. Occasionally my older kids will wake up before 8 o'clock. If this happens, they know they're allowed to read a book in bed if they want to. They just can't be loud and wake up the three year old and they actually really like this routine. Since the days have been getting hotter, I've been doing my running in the morning. Right now I am training to do a Savage race in a couple weeks and then a Spartan race a couple weeks after that. I could watch that backside all day! I could see you! Now it's time for my protein chocolate milk. It takes two eggs and there was only one in our egg skelter thing back there. Our chickens are not laying very well right now. Plus we're down to seven hens. We lost a couple to hawks and they've just kind of been slowly dwindling. So we need to have more chickens. We're raising those layers out in the pasture with the broilers. So that's coming. But for now we've actually been buying some eggs from the neighbors. But I had to go grab one of these from the chicken pen out there to make my chocolate milk. This immersion blender works awesome for this. And Michelle uses this thing all the time for all kinds of other stuff. That is so good. And I know that it's healthy. I try to do most of my watering in the evenings because I know that that's like the best time. But I usually just have one sprinkler going. So I don't always get it all done in the evenings. It's been a few days since it's rained and it's not supposed to rain for another like week. Which is really unusual in Ohio. I'm not really having to water the stuff that I mulched. But we have the corn and beans that I haven't mulched. And so those I am still watering. The kids get up and go out to do their chores before breakfast. This gives them a solid morning routine and their learning responsibility. They are also learning to care for more than just themselves. And they get to be a part of that good feeling you get when you eat a meal that you raised and grew yourself. They also get paid a little for doing their chores and that helps with the motivation. On our farm we eat as healthy and natural as we can. And we try to raise our animals as naturally as possible as well. Our cows and chickens are out on pasture instead of being cooped up and eating grain all day. These things are popular on a homestead but I think one animal that often gets overlooked when it comes to eating natural foods is our dogs. Most dog foods have corn or some kind of grain as the first ingredient. And that really doesn't make any sense because dogs are meat lovers and it's natural for meat to be a big part of their diet. She likes that. We've always tried to get dog food with meat as a first ingredient and grain free if possible. But now we've found something even better. Sundays for Dogs is made with 90% meat, 10% veggies, and 0% synthetic nutrients. We've started feeding Sundays for Dogs to Cowboy and I could tell from the very first time that we fed it to her that she was really going to love it. And she is just chowing it down. There are other quality fresh dog foods out there but one of the problems with them is they require refrigeration and preparation. Then regular dried dog food is basically dead. Sundays for Dogs is air dried so it doesn't require refrigeration and it retains a lot more nutrients than regular dried food. So it's like getting the best of both worlds. Another cool thing is that it gets shipped right to your door so you don't have to worry about running out. You can get 50% off your first order if you go to sundaysfordogs.com slash morethanfarmers and use our code morethanfarmers at checkout. And thank you Sundays for sponsoring this video. Hi Captain! I fed my sourdough starter last night so it's all nice and bubbly this morning and I'm going to quickly mix up some tortillas before I make breakfast. Because we're going to have some chicken taco burrito things tonight for supper. I am just quickly using Lisa from Farmhouse on Boone her sourdough tortilla recipe. I think it's called the best sourdough tortillas. Tortillas are so easy to make. For sure the mixing it takes a little bit of effort to roll them out and fry them up. But getting them started in the morning takes me about five minutes. We've been having some hawk issues and so we don't have eggs for breakfast right now which is annoying. We're also running low on hamburgers so I'm really making do this morning for breakfast. So I'm just making some of our homegrown potatoes that I baked and froze. Because the root cellar is pretty warm by now and things are not lasting down there anymore so I'm having to use stuff out of the freezer. I'm just heating those up with a little bit of hamburger that I had left over in the fridge and I'm going to throw some cheese on there and call it good for this morning. I have been making milk kefir lately. It's something that's supposed to be really really good to help with good bacteria in our stomachs. So I'm just going to quickly make a smoothie to go with breakfast since breakfast isn't very protein rich. Milk kefir is so so easy. I literally just bought these grains the other day and they're already like massively producing. Reproducing I should say. I also like to make extra of this smoothie and then I just put it into a silicone popsicle mold and the kids have healthy snacks then in the afternoon. The reason that I got this milk kefir in the first place was because I heard that people who cannot drink normal milk can sometimes drink kefir. And my daughter is very very sensitive to dairy. She can't have any at this point except for a little bit of cheese and butter here and there. I have been giving this smoothie to her every morning for breakfast and it does not bother her stomach at all. That is really really cool. Okay guys come for breakfast. I'm using paper plates today cause it's a shoot day. Music My favorite part of the morning is going out and checking my garden. I don't do well in the heat, so I like to work outside first thing while it's still cool. It's also best to harvest veggies, especially herbs and leafy greens, before the hot sun makes them wilty. My herb garden is taken off and I'm getting handfuls of calendula flowers. I pick the flowers and then I just take them inside to dry on my drying rack. As soon as I have enough, I'll pop them into some oil to eventually make salve and lotion with. I have a correction to make. In our harvest video, I showed how I pull the petals off of the flowers to dry them. Someone in the comments corrected me and said I should be drying the whole flower, which is actually correct. It's been a minute since I've made calendula lotion and I should have brushed up before making the video. My apologies. The parsley has taken off as well, so I'm taking bowlfuls of that inside to put on my drying racks as well. I don't feel like parsley has all that much flavor once it's dried. I prefer it fresh, but there's some recipes like chicken noodle soup that I make during the winter that just aren't the same without those flecks of dried parsley. My tomatoes are doing well, but are in need of being tied up and pruned. This is something I do almost weekly because tomatoes grow so fast. I just use twisty ties to tie up branches that are hanging down. My peppers are getting bigger and I really like to put tomato cages on them to just give them some protection and stability. As the fruit starts coming in, often the pepper plants will fall over. The cages keep them upright and protect them from breaking in high winds or storms. My broccoli plants are getting massive, which is wonderful. It's a good sign if the plant gets really big before it actually sets a broccoli. The broccoli head will be much bigger that way. Once the broccoli buds start to loosen up and the whole head doesn't look tight in the middle anymore, your broccoli is going to be ready to harvest. If you leave your broccoli heads out too long, they'll push out yellow flowers and your broccoli head won't be tasty anymore. So I really keep a close eye on my broccoli when it reaches this point. Strawberry season is almost over, which is bittersweet. There's still a few tiny strawberries and they're the sweetest berries of the season. They taste like what I would imagine a strawberry tasted like in the Garden of Eden. And by the way, we're really enjoying the weed fabric that we covered with weed mulch. Many of you commented and said that we wouldn't have had to cover the black fabric, and you're right, but we chose to cover it because the sun makes it really hot and we weren't able to walk on it barefoot without it burning our feet. So if we want to remove the leaves at the end of the season, it won't be too hard. We're just having a really simple lunch today. We're having ground beef with barbecue sauce on it and a can of pickles on my sourdough bread. This is basically sloppy joe. Michelle just didn't want to say it because sloppy joe is like my least favorite food. It's not that I think it's gross. I don't know what I don't like about it. I think it's that it's sloppy. It's just so messy. You've got this like loose meat on top of a piece of bread and it just goes all over the place. But this is good. I mean for sloppy joe, Michelle makes good sloppy joe. And I also realized that you haven't seen much of me since my morning routine. On most mornings, I'm up in my office editing or doing other computer work, and this morning I was doing all the filming. And I'll tell Cody to eat like a piggy. You know it tastes good. See? Right there. Some of them fall off. After lunch, the kids and I take some time to rest. Since Cody's working from home and we also homeschool, we found that we're all just happier when we have some time alone. My three-year-old sleeps and my older kids read for an hour and a half. Reading every afternoon really helps my kids maintain what they've learned in the previous school year, and it also keeps their minds just thinking and expanding. We get asked if we allow screen time in our house. We don't have personal devices for our kids. If we watch things, it's all together at the TV in the living room. Right now, I'm studying for a speech that Cody and I will be giving at the Food Independence Summit in Holmes County, Ohio. So this afternoon, I'm devoting my entire rest time to that. I'm making my daily matcha. This is one of my like new kicks. I just kind of like to have these little obsessions every now and then just for fun. And recently on a YouTube channel, I was listening to a dietician. She's like a licensed professional. She was talking about how she just really loves her matcha every day. And she noticed some really good results with in her health. And so I was like, you know what, that's something I've never tried. I'm going to try it. And now I'm obsessed. Totally obsessed. It's so good. I make a strawberry matcha because we have like so many fresh strawberries. I don't have like those fancy little matcha brushes and I don't feel like getting one just for this. I'm not that like diehard, I guess you could say. The strawberry mixture in the bottom is just pureed strawberries from our garden. And then I simmer it with some honey. And so that's what sweetens this drink. So good. And then I just top it with raw milk. I've tried a couple different kinds of matcha and this time I got the ceremonial grade and it's by far better than the lower quality stuff. I just got it off of Amazon. I am definitely not a matcha connoisseur. It's just really, really good. Seriously, how pretty is that? And it tastes even better. The strawberries definitely, I think, are a lot of what makes the drink. And it's so good that I actually convinced Cody to try it. And he likes it too. He asks for it some afternoons. I'm going to make Cody an iced coffee. He's going to be working outside in the hot sun. I'll let him tell you what he's doing out there. But I like to make him a drink in the afternoons too. Why? Thanks. Have you told them what this is going to be? So I've had a stack of lumber sitting around for literally like six months now. The metal is sitting out there. You've probably seen that in a few of the videos. It is for my new office. I got everything like last fall. I was planning to get it done in the fall over the winter and just didn't do anything with it hardly. So finally getting to it. It's not going to be exceptionally huge or anything. This is 12 by 20. And then about half of it is going to be used for like a workout room and half of it for my office. I'm getting so sick and tired of being up in that closet. There's no windows in there. It gets stuffy. And I spend a lot of hours working up there. About three days a week. I'm editing almost all day. That's a lot of time to spend in a stuffy windowless office. So this is going to be so much better. I'm going to have some big windows looking out this way. Two windows up by the front door. It'll be nice and light and airy. I enjoy doing stuff like this. It is pretty hard to get it done while everything else is going on around here. So I got to kind of squeeze in different parts here and there. Today I'll probably just get to work on it a couple hours this afternoon while Michelle is doing some stuff inside. With all the filming going on today I got to kind of keep going back and forth with that too. And yes I fully realized that I could be using a nail gun. And I might get one to finish it out with the nailers because it's a lot of nails to put in. But I really did enjoy just coming out here in the peace without air compressors running and stuff like that. I am going to fry up these tortillas. Our kiddos have bible school tonight. So I need to get supper going before it gets late. I am going to make these small because I am making kind of like street tacos. I mean they are not going to be exactly like street tacos. I am just going to make like a vinegar slaw and then have some chicken that I baked yesterday. I prepped it out yesterday and we are going to put it in a little tortilla. Tortillas can be pretty time consuming. And sometimes when there is something really time consuming I will just like cheat a little bit and buy it. But lately I just can't make myself buy tortillas. For some reason like even the whole wheat organic ones have like vegetable shortening as the second ingredient which kind of blows my mind. I am like if you have a consumer who is willing to pay like double the price for organic whole wheat. Like what consumer is going to want to have vegetable shortening as the second ingredient? Whatever. So I have just been making these. They are really simple. They really are. They are just kind of time consuming and I don't often get them made. I have some cold chicken here that I had in my refrigerator. I am just going to chop this stuff up real fine and season it up in some coconut oil. And this will be the protein for our meal. I am just making a really quick slaw here. It is vinegar with some water and salt and sugar. And I am mixing it with onions and cilantro. Fun fact I just used our last onion from the root cellar. That is amazing. Like when did we harvest those? Was it August? August, September, October, November, December, January, February, March. Ten months. Pretty stellar. I think these tacos need just a tiny bit of like creaminess or sauce or something. So I am just making a quick little sauce here. Some mayonnaise, maple syrup and vinegar. It is kind of, I don't know, just like a nice sweet and sour sauce. Want to be the taste tester? Sure. Super good. That sauce is perfect. You better have a glowing review after your nastiness on the sloppy joes. This is definitely better than sloppy joes. Time to suffer kids. I don't normally rate my own food. But if I was to rate these tacos, 10 out of 10. Since they are getting their own sweet treat at Bible school, way too much sugar there. We are going to be making some homemade ice cream with strawberries. And then I don't know what she told you about what I am doing this evening, but I am actually going to end up going and getting chicken feed while she is here and starts editing this video. There is always something different going on on a homestead in different seasons. And to see what that is like for us, I have a playlist right here for you to click on to watch next. Stop it.