Hydroponics Substrates
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Lw3y7S8nFXI
Howto & Style
 Music Well Bruce, there's a number of different hydroponic systems and about just as many different substrates we can use. Tell me about some of the different options for a hydroponic system. Alright, so probably the standard that's probably been known in the industry for a while is rock wool. It comes in different sizes, you've got really small pieces, you've got larger blocks that you can actually use for just growing the plants in or you can actually move individual blocks into other types of systems. And so for this system you could just set plants right into it or use these smaller pieces to kind of stabilize them in there. Right, so it comes in different sizes, some of the smaller rock wool pieces you could actually use for getting stuff started. And then if you wanted to transplant it in here, the plants aren't that big, then you can use this to help stabilize it. So you could start seeds right in the rock wool? You could, yes. And that's, these types of blocks you can put into a bucket type system, but you also have these smaller pieces in your floating system as well, I see. Right, yeah, the rat system, I found that it works pretty well. You can start it from seeds or you can actually transplant into those. Okay. What about this material? What do we have here? This is expanded clay. This has been pretty popular over the last few years and it works pretty well. It's, the common name on it would be, the company name would be hydroton. Okay. And again, here you have it in your rack system, but if we were going to put this into a bucket system, you need a cup to hold it, right? Right. So net pots are pretty common as well. They come in different sizes for actually growing the plants. Okay. What are some of the other substrate materials we have here? This is one that's actually recycled plastic from grow stones. And you can see here that it looks kind of like rock, but it's really light material. It's porous. Lots of, it lets a lot of air flow through this media, which is good for the roots. Okay. And this one's supposed to also release silica to the plants? Correct. Which should help in a number of functions as well. Okay. And then on the smaller side of silica, you have volcanic rock here. Right. Some volcanic rock that also releases silica as well. Another small particle size, kind of similar to that, is the old standard pearlite. You can grow in it fairly well as well. Does this tend to get a lot of dust in the water? Is there a problem with that or does it balance itself out? Oh, that's a good question. So it depends on the system itself. We actually use some of the Dutch bucket system and we had to use some paint strainers to actually hold it in or it would just run right through the media. Okay. There's also rock on the larger end of things. You can use river, river rock works well as well. There's even a case where people use sand. You can even use some organic materials such as sphagnum moss or sawdust. But again, with any of that kind of stuff, it's going to break down over time. So the basic function of any of these substrates is to kind of stabilize the plant. So the water can run through or provide a place for the water to fill. Correct. And some of these provide a little bit more air space than other materials. Okay. Well, thank you, Bruce. You're welcome. You're welcome. Mm-hmm. Thank you. You're welcome. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Well, close to the pool, and see you Guthrie. Okay. That'll see you. Ugh. And let me check at the pool. So I'll see you next time. Go for the pool at! Yeah, me. Yeah, my Father! Thanks. Yeah. Plein. Yeah. yield. I'll see you too early. We'll see you later. Bye! Thanks. Yeah, here. Bye! Bye!