Amazon's Best Garden Tools You Need This Season
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LYKB8LF8ejE
People & Blogs
 Hello everyone! Welcome back to the channel. In this video, we're bringing you the best Amazon garden tools and accessories, and these cool TikTok videos will make you buy them. If you like the content, please make sure to hit the like and subscribe buttons. As usual, you can find the links to all the products in the description below. Blown Away My new compact leaf blower has so many uses in the garden, but this one is my favorite. 8 years of being a dad, and his dad's skills have peaked. Hello everybody! Today I'm going to show you my favorite gardening tool and how to use it, the Hori Hori. One side has a serrated edge, the other side has a serrated flat edge, and it has measurements on the side. So you see how deep you can shuffle down, and I'm going to show you how to use it. First we have the un-darnying gloves. So with the Hori Hori knife, it's really nice to dig and plant bulbs. You can see that there are inches, so you have one, two, three, four, five, six. And if you need to get a specific depth, like you need to dig four inches, you can easily go ahead and do that. Dig up where you need to be, and then you know your depth is four inches. If you have rock out of the soil, you can use a serrated edge and cut it up. You can also do it and cut weeds down really easily, and pick branches, and get those cleared out real quick. Are you tired of spending endless hours pulling weeds like this in your garden, and having these same weeds take away water, nutrients from your veggies and fruits? I have a solution for you. This is called a stirrup hoe. Some may call it a hula ho. I will show you what it does. Follow me. Take a stirrup hoe, you drag it across the surface, yanks the weeds right up along with the roots. So if you want your garden, we lift like this right here, and get you a stirrup hoe. Save you a bunch of time. Hit that plus sign on the way out. Thanks for watching. Never forget to water your garden or yard again. How? With a smart hose timer like this Orbit Beehive. It connects to your phone or tablet so you can water automatically at set times of day. You can even start and stop it remotely without having to go out into your yard. Best of all, it'll use your local weather data to not water when it's raining, saving you money. It even works with Amazon Alexa and Google Assistant for voice control, and all of this functionality costs just 60 bucks. Follow along for more cool smart home gear. And if you need help with your smart home, check out my concierge service at the Lincoln Bio. Today, I'm going to show you how to use the best garden tool that I have in my backyard. This is called a tapener. It's used to tie up plants. All right, so it's really simple to use. You just push down and extracts the tape and put it around whatever you're trying to wrap up. Squeeze and it staples it. So it's got a refillable tape dispenser and the staples go in here. It's really easy to use. And you can use it for anything from cucumbers to tomatoes. All right, so I hope you all enjoyed this tip and you can pick this up on Amazon. If you have a yard or garden or know someone who does, you need to see Grandpa's Weeder. This incredible tool allows you to pick your weeds standing up, eliminating the stress on your back and knees. This tool has been removing weeds since 1913. I could not believe how easy and effective it was to use. Instructions are right on the real bamboo handle. Center of the weed, press and lean. Its unique head design grabs the weed and pulls it out. It's genius. If you're a weed puller and don't have this, you'll be saying, where's this been all my life? Incredible. I love birds. So I bought this window bird feeder and filled it with seeds and mealworms. It took a while for any bird to come, but I stayed hopeful and kept refilling the feeder. And then I managed to capture this special moment. These starlings now visit daily. Birds started to build nests in my window bird feeders, but they all were abandoned after they were nearly done. I guess it was to open or they got scared off. But not this pigeon. She built a nest not even half the size of the smaller birds, but said Munkay. She laid eggs. Welcome to your new home for the next couple months, new friends. Hey, have you tried out this amazing solar fountain? It is cordless, solar powered, and has a built in submersible water pump. It even has a backup battery to store power and six bright LED lights. So it still works great at night. Here's an amazing tool to use to weed your garden. This is called the hand weeder. Here, my mother-in-law is weeding a thistle and it's going to get the whole root, which is what you need to really get rid of the weed. So this tool is great because it gets deep enough into the soil. And the bend on the tool helps you pivot and leverage the earth to help get the weed out. And the fork at the end of the tool helps grab the weed. This is an awesome tool, must have. Throw away that blunt hand saw. And try this portable electric pruning shear. It is cordless and lightweight and will definitely make cutting your lawn's tree branches a breeze. Pair it with a compatible extension pole to make cutting hard to reach branches super easy. Don't want to ruin your nail varnish? Then this pair of garden claw gloves is perfect for you. It's waterproof and has a breathable design. Ideal for digging and quick planting. Order yours in Amazon now. This 2-in-1 garden kneeler and seat works as both a garden kneeler and a garden seat, making it super convenient for you to kneel down in your garden without hurting your knees or back. Turn it over, and it becomes a perfect seat. No assembly required, opens and closes quickly, easy for storage and carry. Holds up to 300 pounds. Get yours now. Link is in the description. This tool is perfect for all the gardening enthusiasts out there. It's the 2-in-1 grafting tool pruning kit. Perfect for fruit tree grafting. It can handle both cyan and rootstock. It even comes with an extra set of blades, two paraffin tapes, and a grafting knife. So, get grafting! Hey there! Do you prefer to watch the clouds or the pruning? Order your very own trimmer now, on Amazon. Link in the description. I'd love you to watch again and comment which is better. The clouds or the pruning? So, which do you think is cooler? The solar fountain or the electric pruning shear? Comment down below! If you like the content, we'd really appreciate it. If you can just hit the like and subscribe buttons. It's only gonna take a few seconds and it's totally free, but it helps the channel a whole lot. Thanks! And see you on the next video! Thank you! you you