Churchbridge Locks Photostream
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lYtgMHDwZyw
Education
 Well hi my name is Andy Tidy and welcome back to another edition of Canal Hunter. In this episode I want to return to the Church Bridge locks near Canock and I want to provide you with a photo stream of the archive images of the old canal that linked from Rumahill Junction down to Hawkins Basin at the bottom end. Now when I started looking for these abandoned canals my aim was to try and track down the old routes but it wasn't long after I started this process that I started to wonder what the old routes used to look like and from time to time I came across the odd black and white image and I started to wonder if it would be possible to put a set of these images together and to try to recreate what these abandoned canals actually looked like when they were operating. Now this was 10 years ago and I was just finding the odd image here and there in history books and the extent of my imagination was that it would be possible to print off a number of these images overlay them onto a map and have them as a display at a waterways function. Well of course technology has moved on and it's now possible to integrate these images into a constant video and publish it on YouTube which obviously is what I'm doing and my aim here is to try to bring the history back to life. And if anywhere needs life restoring back into an abandoned canal it's the Churchbridge Flight of Locks. I'm not going to go into the great detailed history of this Flight of Locks. I'll put a link to a video at the end which allows you to both track the current route and also the history in great details. You have all the dates and the figures in there. But suffice to say this was a really key linking canal. It linked the Staffs and Worcester's Churchbridge Branch through to the coalfield of Cannock. It was unusual in that the BCN company bought the land but the Staffs and Worcester Canal Company paid for the locks. And at first glance the fact that this canal continued to operate for less than 100 years would suggest that it was a failure. In actual fact the reverse is the truth. This canal was a spectacular success. From the Staffs and Worcester's perspective they wanted to get access to this huge coalfield near Cannock and for that they needed a linking canal into it. It was known from the day that it was built that ultimately the purpose of its existence the coalfield in Cannock would be exhausted. And in reality the coalfield continued to produce fuel for a hundred years. And literally millions of tons of coal was shipped down this little flight of locks and out onto the Staffs and Worcester. And I think it's fair to say that this enduring supply of coal pretty much kept the Staffs and Worcester Canal operational and independent when many other canals had pretty much gone to the wall. And what of the Churchbridge flight of locks today? Well the 1960s and the 1970s saw a massive amount of open cast coal mining going on in the area. So much so that the entire flight of locks was bulldozed out of the way so that the coal underneath could be extracted. Today there are absolutely no built remains whatsoever. It's all down to imagination. So what I'm going to show you is about an eight minute photo stream where we will walk down from Rumahill Junction at the top past the old toll office down through the 13 locks past Gilpin's Ironworks at the bottom and then finally down to Hawkins Basin which was the original terminus of the Hatterton Branch Canal otherwise known as the Churchbridge branch. So I hope you enjoy this short photo stream and I will see at the other end. so So mayo o o Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.