Livestream inspection of Farm and Harvesting Equipment at www.WestAuction.com
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lYzn84EvWTc
Travel & Events
 Welcome everybody to the live stream inspection of all this awesome harvesting equipment and farming equipment. We'll be starting here in about 15 or 20 minutes. Just waiting for people to get in here. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. Once again, we're just going to wait for some more people to get in here and then I'll be able to go around and answer everybody's questions. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. Welcome everybody. We're just going to give another 5-10 minutes or so for more people to get in and then I can go around and start answering everybody's questions. Alright, we're good. We're good. We're good. That's right, Rogue Tool. Everything starts at just $5. Man, how do you know so much about the ways that our auction goes? Just about everything. Almost everything. It's a nice day out here in Northern California. A little chilly. Welcome in. Welcome in everybody. Welcome in. Very good, very good. Once again, if you see anything you like, let me know and I'll zoom in on the tag here. And then you can check it out on our website. You can go to the store and you'll be able to find a whole bunch of pictures and descriptions for pretty much everything out here. Everything's going to have pictures, descriptions. Some things will have videos showing them running. And then you can check it out on the other side. And then you can check it out on the other side. And then you can check it out on the other side. And then you can check it out on the other side. And then you can check it out on the other side. And then you can check it out on the other side. And then you can check it out on the other side. And then you can check it out on the other side. And then you can check it out on the other side. So we're just getting started out here. Here's another look at the Case 9250 Axial Flow Harvester. Almost brand new. Hardly used. I believe it's less than 150 hours on it. So almost never even used. With the MacDon D65 Draper. D65S that is. This is one big piece of machinery. This is one big piece of machinery. All right. Once again, my name is Brennan with West Auctions. Live Stream Inspection. So welcome everybody. If there's anything in particular you were looking at, let me know. I'll do my best to answer any questions and show you around this place. We'll head back up here. Walk down the line of all the implements and attachments here. It's a bit windy. Don't know if the microphone is picking it all up or not. Good to know. Good to know. Good to know. Clear audio is the best audio. So as I'm going through here, if you see anything that you have questions about, feel free to comment in the chat. We are live out here and I can answer any questions or get a close up of something that catches your eye. We're going to walk down this line here. So the long and winding road of farming and harvesting attachments and equipment. And as a reminder, the bidding is going to start this Tuesday, the 8th of November. And it'll be going through Thursday, the 10th of November. And the items are going to start closing at 10. I believe it's 10am and then close throughout the rest of the day. So if you see something you like, let me know. I'll show you the tag here. Then you can mark that down in your notes if you like it. Good looking pole tank here. Good looking pole tank here. Good looking pole tank here. And it's a nice little bit. So if you see something you like, let me know. I'll show you the tag here. I'll show you the tag here. And you can mark that down in your notes if you like it. I'll show you the tag here. I'll show you the tag here. I'll show you the tag here. Good looking pole tank here. This Namco sure does look nice. Looks like it just got a fresh coat of paint. But it flies in<|uk|> Wow you can't see and I movie yes. The scent is pretty good for you. I'm going to swim a little song to theELLE. Bye! Got some things hiding back here. I'm going to take a look. The rear's shredder. Let me see. Did I already pass that? What was the lot number on that one? The rear's shredder. 111. Oh, it's right over here. PTO. Alright, was it this part in the front you were looking for? Let's see. Yeah. Oh, there we go. Yeah. Back here. Awesome. Yeah. Looking good. Looking good. Looking good. Looking good. Going to continue on here. Do you see anything else? Let me know. A couple more pull tanks over here. There. There. There. There. There. There. There. There. There. There. There. There. There. There. There. There. There. There. There. There. There. There. There. There. There. There. There. Thank you everybody for tuning in. Don't be shy, feel free to say something in the chat. Now I think there are a few other items at a different spot so I think I'm going to have to drive over there. There's a few tractors, a couple trucks. So I'm going to walk back this line here and then we can drive over there and check it out. So I'm going to go to the company car and live stream it. Off-roading in the company car and live stream it? That's what I'm talking about. I'm already going to need a car wash so I might as well get a little crazy. Drive safe. Will do. Will do. If I do anything to the company car that means I no longer get to drive the company car. So we'll be safe. We'll be safe. We'll keep it falling. Man this piece is huge. It's a pretty clear day. few few clouds here and there got some rain last night so it's a bit muddy all right we're gonna hop in the car here and cruise over to the other spot check out the backhoe loader a few tractors are we back are we back I think I lost you guys for a second there Bluetooth was connecting all right we're gonna cruise over to the other spot here take a look at the tractors backhoe loader I think we've got some UTVs okay still here okay very good I feel like I'm chasing a stormy or something all right first stop on the tour try grab some coffee here got our auction journalism yes sir documentary auction documentary this is the I believe it's the grain truck caterpillar I think it's caterpillar this thing will start up and run and funk it's functional too I got video on the website of it running as well as all the parts on it moving this arm here in action so if you get this one you're already got yourself a good piece of equipment here I saw a couple a couple things back here by the car don't think that's part of it and then look at these I saw a couple things back here I saw a couple things back here in action so I'm going to go to the car and see what I'm going to do I don't think that's part of it and then look at these beauties we've got the usual suspects here some caterpillars some caterpillars they'll start up just fine got videos of them up there on the website whole array of pictures too let's uh take a peek inside here all right we also have a bunch of descriptions on it other information on the website here all right here all right We got the brute squad. Beautiful. Good line up here. Alright, I think we can just take a little walk. Got some more items this way. Alright. Thank you guys for... Oh, my hair is a little crazy. Thank you guys for tuning in here. We've still got more to see. Just have to find it. Take a look here. I don't see anything in here. Let's go across. Ah, there we go. Through the warehouse. Once again, if you guys have any questions, feel free to shoot them over in chat and I'll do my best to answer them. Here's our next piece of equipment here. Case 120C Farmall. I don't think this one has a whole lot of hours on it either. It looks like it's in pretty good shape. There's a pond in front of it. If you guys want me to get a little closer, I'll do my best to jump over. If not, we're gonna keep on moving. There should be a backhoe loader around here somewhere. Some of this equipment will be not part of this auction. But we do have a few back here. We've got this one. I forgot what we... I forgot the name of this particular piece of equipment. I know we have some of these Brent grain carts. I'm not sure if these are the ones we're selling, but they look just like this one, I think. I'm not sure where that backhoe loader went. I'm gonna have to track that one down. The cool thing about... If you're watching us here on YouTube, you can go back in the stream anytime. You can scroll back through the timeline. If you miss something or you want to go back, you can go back, pause it, play it in slow motion if you need to. Making our way back to the... Caterpillar tractors. I'm starting to warm up a bit over here. I'm gonna need to take the jacket off. Beautiful day out. If you couldn't make it out here in person, we're glad to have you on the live stream. We'll be walking around, checking things out here for a little while longer. 24 hour stream. Maybe we should consider doing a sub-a-thon and I'll stay out here. As long as we get some people following. Stay out here. There's an idea. Let me see if I can get some insider information. Oh, there he goes. We'll get some insider information at a later time. Let's check out these guys again. Huge, huge tractors. Caterpillar. Start right up. Ready to be put to work. Then we've... Whoa, whoa. Hey, we've got the grain truck here. Also starts up and ready to be put to work. Let's take another trip here. And give you a trip in the West Auctions automobile. We might lose connection here for a second folks. But don't worry. We're a... ... computer. As well as... ... as well as... ... as well as... ... as well as... ... as well as... ... as well as... ... as well as the UTV's were. ... as well as the UTV's were. ... where we are. You hear me? We lost a bunch of people. Oh no. Work here. Looking good, looking good. Also got this guy here. We're going to go take a look at the backhoe loader now. Welcome in or welcome back. If I lost you there, the company car was trying to take over the live stream. That's what you get with technology these days. Here we are. John Deere 310E backhoe loader. Just like the rest of the equipment, this one will start right up. There's a, if you don't take my word on it, video proof on westauction.com. See if we marked it. See if we marked it. I don't see a tag on it, but on our website, you search, you'll find this guy and you'll see videos of it moving. Lock it up front, lift it up. Ready to roll. Ready to roll. Ready to roll. Alright, we're going to walk back to the car now. I think we ought to, I think we ought to head back up front and check out some of the implements and attachments again. It's been cold the last couple days. Thank you, thank you. Lot seven for the backhoe loader. Okay. It's pretty warm. Okay. Okay. Do you with me? Connection to that. Rest of it. Okay. Okay. We have landed. Let's continue the tour. Continue on the tour. All right. We're back at the front here, so we're going to take another look around. Don't know what my gimbal's doing here. Okay. I think we're good. All right. Let's take another look at the 2020 Case IH 9250 Axial Flow Harvester. Still a baby. It's got less than 150 hours, I believe. I think, or less than 200, less than 150, I believe. One of those two. Included is the MacDon D65S Draper. The paint is still quite fresh. Quite fresh on this guy. Barely even used. If you want to see it running, we've got showcasing it driving around, as well as the arm here moving around. It's got a lot of different levels. Maybe we can hop up there and take a look here. Check out the interior. These tires are almost as tall as me. Attempt to climb up here. Ooh, kind of tricky with one hand. Whoa. All right. Take a look in the inside. Man, these seats look brand new. Yeah, this is this is some nice hardware. Just look at that view. So much so much visibility. Got some air condition controls up here. Yep. Yep, looking good. All right, let's hop down and check out some more implements. All right. Once again, that was the Case IH 9250 AFS Axial Flow Harvester. If you just happen to pop in or you want to take a look again, you can always rewind. After we finish the live stream, we'll be posting it on our YouTube channel, so you can take a look at it there. Watch it at a slower speed or at a faster speed if I'm going too slow for you guys. Up to you. Muddy out here. Muddy out here. Hey, Brian. Say hi to the camera. Brian here. We've got a whole lot of equipment. We've got to go ahead. Bye. Really? You see? All right, look at all this equipment we got lined up here. We're going to take a stroll and check it all out. Maybe I'll try to hold the camera up higher here so you can see a little bit more. If you see something you like, let me know and I'll stop, look at it, get a few different angles on it. If you want to see something close up, I can do that here. Just let me know in the chat, in the live chat. Bye. Bidding is going to start on tomorrow. Tuesday November 8th and we'll continue bidding through Thursday November 10th. So no better time to mark your calendars. If there's something I missed or something you want to see in particular, let me know. So no better time to mark your calendars. So no better time to mark your calendars. So no better time to mark your calendars. So no better time to mark your calendars. We've done these livestream inspections a few times in the past, but if this is something that you like and you want to see more of, be sure to let us know in the comments or you can email us your thoughts. If you're giving you some advice or something you want to see in the future, just let us know. We want to make the experience better for those watching, those interested. Good watching. We'll have to see. We'll be right back. Yeah, I should have fog point to the next day on the next. Just a few minutes ago we checked out the Caterpillar Tractor's John Deere backhoe loader so if you're interested in seeing those be sure to rewind the video scroll back. Good thing about streaming on YouTube if you're watching on YouTube we can rewind anytime. We're also going to be posting this to our website once the live stream is concluded so you can always go back and check it out later. Let's see what we have over here. Quick interview with the insider knowledge guy. Ooh, that could be a good idea. We could potentially do that. If you weren't able to make it in person today glad you stopped in for the live stream inspection. Man this Namco, it's got a fresh coat of paint on it. Looking pretty good. S Sono it's been a bit loud so if I was able to manage it on a spot, never watch any guard and look for this drill. . Now we have to show you like thisMinistah on the old Hasn't yet fusion on any other road Reading makes with therek76 have lost all dangers from Enteriliyor slash Genesis Oh, was that the Namco was listed as 2021? Yeah. Yeah, that Namco looks pretty new. Again, if you see anything you like, let me know. I can do a quick 360 preview of it, get you some information. I don't think we've looked at a few things I've missed over here, actually. Yeah, that Case IH harrester is huge! Lagu Rate Dodge Did you hear me on the дuz köper, Not far, we work on a walk, We go golf, I don't know what I personally! Like the beach outside, I think... um to answer your question i believe it's i believe it's immediately after i believe it is immediately after if there's any other information maybe if anybody else is watching they could answer that but usually usually if there's ever a reserve on something it's pretty immediate oh oh i'm in the i'm in the wet mud now oh is that one this one might be in the auction too not the not the green one but oh yeah look at that where do i send the super chat we'll have to look at ways we can implement the super chat i'm not sure how uh how we can use that really but yeah i keep missing this guy very nice we uh looked at the utvs and the backhoe loader earlier i believe it's around the 35 to 40 minute mark in case you wanted to check that out i missed it it's on there you'll be able to if you're on youtube you can rewind it now and go take a look if not it will be posted to our youtube channel once the live stream concludes i don't know what my gimbal is doing here i might have missed a few things back here i don't know what my gimbal is doing here i don't know what my gimbal is doing here i don't know what my gimbal is doing here so lot 100 oh yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah Largely and safely south to bothассái Nodp communicants INFORMATION And Он о написании СпасибоAlgely I'm going to drive it under it. You drive a tractor in there. That's not fucking shit. I'm sure it's cold. If I'm going too fast for you guys, let me know. Don't mind slowing it down. We just crossed the one hour mark. Woohoo! I turned the movie straight over my way to four feet. Because there's nothing rich in that part with cabins. If I watch this out JEFFYOU National focus. Like this, I watched we did a couple unlikely i thought we were enough at you usually made the line maybe we did a triple Oh look, I think I missed these guys. I don't think I've been back here. They're hiding. I've lost tracking there for a minute. I don't know what I'm doing. Okay, there we go. Better. Alright, let's continue on with the tour here. If you see something you like, let me know. I'll circle back, get a closer look at it. I'll circle back, get a closer look at it. It's huge. This is so good. I'm going to go out. I'm going to go out. It's really good to see. I'm going to go out. I'm going to go out. I'll go out. I'm going to go out. long It's a cool looking piece right there. Let me get a different angle on these ones. Hop through the mud. Alright. What do you think guys? Should we keep it going? Should we do one last loop and then call it a day? What are we thinking? It's the same like you're saying, but you can't keep falling. Okay. Okay, so I'm thinking maybe this might be the last loop we do. And then if we get any newcomers that want another go, I can stop at some specific items. But we'll call this the seventh, we'll call it the final inning here. Bottom of the night. Yes, it is. So, we can go over here. Piano声 Alright, check out that water liquid trailer over here. Maybe close it out with one last look at the Case IH9250AFS. I'm exposed to water for storm. Oh, this is the bad mud. A couple more pieces scattered throughout here. Of course, the harvester here. Thing of beauty. Almost brand new. Less than 150 hours, I believe. Yep. This thing is ready to do some work. It's getting busier out here in person. Got a number of people touring around. Checking things out. Anybody have any last minute requests here? Otherwise, I think we're going to end the live stream here. Of course, once we end the live stream, you'll be able to watch it from beginning to end on YouTube. We also have pictures of every lot on our website, www.westauction.com. Videos of all the machines running, all the tractors, grain trucks. Alright. That's going to do it. That's going to do it for our live stream here today, folks. Glad you all could make it out here with me. Got a harvester back there. Yeah. Thank you guys for hanging out. If you enjoyed it, my name is Brennan. If not, my name is Mr. J. But yeah. Glad you guys could all tune in. And if you like this kind of thing, if you want to see more live stream inspections, let us know in the comments. Or if there's anything we can do to make the bidding experience better, let us know. Alright. Hope you guys have a good rest of your day. And bidding, once again, reminder, bidding starts tomorrow. Bidding ends on Thursday. That's November 8th through November 10th, 2022. So, mark your calendars and happy bidding. Alright. Take care, guys.