Hay Bales and a New Grain Bin!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2o0bEgN_5Y
Entertainment
 Good morning folks. Today we're gonna start out hauling some hay. We got I think just short of 200 bales we got to move and then we're hoping the clouds kind of go away, warm up because we have some wheat stubble that we asked the neighbor if we could bail some of his wheat stubble. About 20 acres worth that'd be great for bedding this next winter and spring. Dad's headed down the road with his first load. He'll be hauling to the home farm. I'll be hauling to Uncle Jeff's. As these yards fill up with hay there's not much room so we stay out of each other's way a little bit more room when we're hauling at different places. Oh the hay yard is getting full that's just quite the sight folks. Oh the hay yard is getting full that's just quite the sight folks. In a couple days we're gonna start emptying these grain bins. That'll be fun maybe. No. Might be hot. Malaysian Or underscoting 양 Remember that sorghum we planted in Jeff's feedlot? It don't look too bad. It's growing a lot better than last year because we have rain. It's growing a lot better than last year. It's growing a lot better than last year. It's growing a lot better than last year. Working on my fourth load. This will be the last one that fits at Uncle Jeff's and his hayyard will be pretty dang full. Sounds like the concrete crew will be showing up in a couple hours to start working on the new bin project. Saying the sun's going to poke out. We gotta bale some straw so hopefully it does. Special effects all over. Surfing so all this hay except for these three rows was made this year take a moment to appreciate what the lord giveth with all the rain this hay yard hasn't been this full in a while little spot open here just in case we put some more alfalfa later on we're gonna feed some cattle this winter i tell you so The ears have an Tellarra. Morningmen Technological Health. Their last Class of thechin is central to keep the touch of the Mosquito. They are near the plane. If weロ QUINT, weased station and here's station only 1-2-4, Just two loads left over there. Dad and I each one more trip and we'll be done. Construction crew just showed up. They're doing some form work, digging and such. They saw us TER hate store. They nobody else did expensive. Looks like I was a little rough on the net on that one. Last week we have pulled over 400 bales off this piece of grass. Next half through the ENC-KS and one other ended in terms of the pattern. Can't draw WH IT'S IN CAMERA. Lloyd Hooks in theве 4th. Pick political skill from 1 more time. Anyway, when are we getting started mostly in Jesus' play? Let me show someんな kids like these behind it and they sat here Where will we go with this car? Why am I laughing at this car?итеgetget Every time I see this unit I'm just like man what a setup. Beautiful equipment. After a while dad will be accumulating some bales over there and we can maybe haul a couple. Recently we got that side fastened and unfortunately there's not a wood post right where we want one over here. So I got this piece of metal marked out. I'm going to end up welding this continuous right here. I'm going to cut out this slot and it's just going to fit snug around this frame of the gate. We're not even going to use this one. But let's get the plasma cutter going and see how well we can make this piece. 6 inches to weld on the back there. That should keep it pretty sturdy. What the heck is that thing? Baby bird in here.", where I am going? Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'd rather that thing wasn't in the cab with me. Come on. Here. Oh, yeah. Woo-hoo. No way. There's a cement truck in front of me. I think it's headed to the farm. They work so fast. They took that piece of dirt with nothing on it to a form and now they're already pouring it. That is incredible. Yeah. So the base, it's about 30 inches deep. Then a bunch of fill they got packed in there. And so the floor for most of it's really about four inches. They said it's going to take about 40 yards. I think a yard of concrete's close to 150 bucks. So they formed this up and they're pouring it today, but they also started the day out with pouring another one. They're efficient. They've done this a few times. They're efficient. They're겠습니다. And they'll take care of just one. So. So. So. You. Okay. They hammered that thing out fast, and when I tell you they didn't have a handful's worth of cement extra left, yeah, it was close there. I was thinking I was going to have to grab my couple bags of sackcrete from the shed. Well, successful day. We moved a lot of bales. This guy has poured. Hopefully maybe someday we've got enough room, enough acres to build one more. Folks, thanks for watching. We appreciate it. Love to see you next time. Have a good one. Mom stuck around long enough and now Mom wants me to help carry in groceries. Even when you move out, you still got to do it.