Morning Farm Chores with HISEA Boots
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m3V0yGpcgnM
People & Blogs
 Hi there, it's Lindsay here. Today we're going to do something a little different and we're going to go with the kids and see all their chores for the day. Today's video is sponsored by Hisea. I'm so excited to be working with them again because I absolutely love their boots and I know that you'll love them too. So I'll tell you a little bit more about them and I'll show you the awesome boots that we got in just a little bit. But first, the kids start off their chores by feeding the inside dogs. I do like to warm up their food with a little hot water. It also kind of hydrates that just a little bit. And we also have been throwing in some liver treats for them so it's not just dry dog food that they get. These NutriBites came from Costco and they're only dried liver. That's all they are, just dried beef liver. So I just stick a few in there and it kind of helps them eat a little bit because they look forward to that. And I know you're thinking, why is Floki inside? He's supposed to be a farm dog. He is a livestock guardian dog, but he is now retired. Floki is, I believe he's nine or ten years old. So once they feed the inside dogs, they're just grabbing another bowl for Alice. Alice usually gets our table scraps just to give her a little extra incentive to eat. And she eats a little bit more than the others because she's got a lot of work to do. And now it's time to get on our boots from Hisea. We did collaborate with Hisea about a year ago and I can say with confidence that these are great boots. Ollie and Audrey both got the Seamless Tech Rain Boot. Ollie just got the camo green and then Audrey got the fuchsia floral. I love that they have little handles on them for their little hands to get them on by themselves. I got the Women's Excursion Pro Ankle Boot. I just don't like a full boot. I like ankle boots. And I do have another pair that actually roll down and you get the option of a tall boot or a short boot. But I really loved these. I wanted a different color and I wanted to try these out because these are my older ones. You see, I love them. They're beautiful. They're dirty because I've had them over a year. But I absolutely love these. And let me tell you, Hisea has 100% keep dry and warm guarantee. And they also have a 100 year warranty. So I just don't think you're going to be disappointed if you try these boots out. They have tons of boots, some made for gardening. They have slip-ons. They have things for men, women, kids. They even have waders for you hunting and fishing enthusiasts. But just go check them out. I do have a code for you today. And that is code HOMEMAKER15. And that'll get you 15% off your order. But I'm going to put that down in the description box along with a link. And you can go there and check them out just in case you need some new boots. Now we're moving on with our chores. And of course, we have to feed Alice first. The mintweed is kind of taking over the yard over here. But she always gets good pats and loves. I come out here several times a day and love on her. So she's not alone. One day we're going to have to get her a little puppy or something. Maybe she can train another one for us. She's always so excited. So cute. We also feed Miss Kitty Softpaws while we're over here. We are slowly trying to get her over to the other house to the back porch and start feeding her over there so we can love on her when we're outside. But so far, she's not having it. But maybe one day we'll get her out there. So after those are fed, we're going to go check on the chickens. Oh, and I forgot to tell you, after one of the storms, a big pine tree fell directly on the kids' swing set. So now they don't have a swing set anymore because it really destroyed it. I think we're going to end up rebuilding something over at the new house. But yeah, it got it pretty good. A few of the new chickens were out, so we had to chase those back in. That's just standard. For some reason, they keep getting out of the pen. That's why we can't get a puppy right now because even Livestock Guardian puppies do attack chickens and they will kill them. That's just their nature. So one of the projects we're thinking about this fall and winter is kind of redoing this coop a little bit and making it more of an enclosure. I know that we like our chickens free ranging, but it's not really working at the moment. So we're going to have to check that out and do something. But the kids always make sure that the chickens have food and water. And if they don't, they come tell us and we usually refill the food and the water. But since I was out here, the kiddos helped me refill the water today. Okay. We went to water them and we noticed that this one's full of water. So the little thing in the bottom had gotten tightened too far. I guess it was probably leaking and somebody tried to help out and tighten it. But yeah, now it's got a bunch of algae in it. So we're going to spray that out and get it all clean for them. So they'll have some nice fresh water. thing we know is the kind of fluffy and dreams. So that's where we try to yeah, so all of us need to be s蔵 Satan doin' it. So I grew up in Jamal. If you've all in the Very Jack and his dearie you could break the sword along with a gel. So that's how, of the yeah, that bees can hunt the aí in it. So we're going to pray about things like this in Viacaba fala in a way to sort ofֿ DAY 400 to++ Day in 2020. So structuring from the of거를'-the. So let's now have to eat it for figuring out. So tell us what it means. So I'll use Up next is of course letting the goats and sunny out. They're raring to go. It rained this morning so they usually get let out a little bit earlier so they're definitely ready to go get something to eat. They love foraging in the summertime so they keep our grass nice and low so it's a win-win situation for everybody. But they're usually out all day usually until about 6 30 or 7 when the sun kind of starts moving behind the trees. That's when we end up putting them up but they've got water and stuff outside of the fence and of course Ollie couldn't finish up without giving Sonny a treat. We're gonna go on a quick garden tour. Now this is an August garden so for me that means lots and lots of weeds because it is so stinking hot usually. This morning is super mild. It rained. It's like 90 degrees. It's been like 105. Feels like 112 and down here in the south that's a humid heat so like it's you can't breathe when you walk outside. So the garden is a bit neglected. It's not a perfect garden but it's producing so much food that I'm able to feed us. I'm able to can and put away and I'm also able to share with neighbors and other people in the community. So I'm excited about that. It's a huge huge garden and I'm trying to not let it go to waste because we've got so much. We're gonna pick in a little bit but we've got zucchini squash. The plant some of the plants aren't as healthy but they've been going for a really long time. So I'm assuming they're gonna be done soon but we've got two patches of zucchini here and I pulled out so much zucchini it's unreal. And then this is my yellow squash patch. Got yellow squash. Got a little one going there. I think Jay just picked these like a day or two ago but these are still going strong. We've got a ton of okra over here. This hasn't been picked in three days so we got some of the big some of the big stuff's woody and some of it's edible so just kind of have to go through but I got a little three row patch of okra. This is where my onions were this whole area so that's why it's all grown up now because we've got holes there that don't have anything in them. So these were supposed to be purple hole peas. This whole row all the way down they're not purple hole peas. They are black eyed peas. Hello there it is. These are actually black eyed peas. They're not purple hole peas and Jay doesn't like them. He says they taste like dirt but I don't know. So there's a whole row all the way down to way out there is all peppers. The idea was that maybe the aphids from the purple peas which purple peas usually get aphids pretty bad would keep the aphids from the tomatoes if I put peppers in the middle. I haven't had any aphids on the tomatoes so it seemed to have worked but I just harvested a ton of these jalapenos like box boxes and boxes full like gallons and gallons and look how many there still are. So I've been sharing so many of them just because I have a ton and so these are jalapeno here. This is a cayenne. I have one cayenne. These aren't ready yet. And then I have a middle section which is banana peppers. These are all banana peppers here and here and I just I picked just about all of them so there's just little ones left and then I've got bell peppers here which I need to go through and pick some of those. We we eat a lot of bell pepper so I like to cut them up and keep them in the freezer but we've got tons of bell pepper. These are more banana peppers here and then down here I have more jalapeno peppers. These are a smaller variety so they kind of turn red a little earlier just because they're smaller but um so these aren't like your jalapeno popper jalapenos. Those are the ones down at the other end. The way we did our tomato plants this year we absolutely hate it. Um we're not going to do it next year. Next year we're just going to do steaks or we're going to pull our trellises out of here and trellis them but we just had to hurry up and get something up this year and so we strung this line and we've been like re-tying them every week and it's really a pain and it does not work. Like we've got so many tomatoes on the ground it's unreal but uh so I'm not like I'm thinking I won't get a huge tomato harvest this year but that's okay. I mean I've learned we definitely won't do this again. We know we like our trellises and that's what we're going to do next year but every year is learning something new you know. So this may work for something else maybe beans and you would probably need poles closer together but it does not work for this and I think if we were going to do it again we would just need to run multiple strings all the way up instead of just doing one on the top and tying them to that. Somehow the tomatoes are still growing so we will be able to harvest some of them just not what we thought. So we've got a lot of these cantaloupe we need to bring in. Audrey go get the dump cart. The honeydew didn't do great. The cantaloupe did a little better. These are the hearts of gold cantaloupe and they're absolutely amazing and then the water the sugar baby watermelons are doing excellent in here. I don't know if those spiky plants are helping them or what because they've stayed pretty hydrated this whole time and they taste really good. I have harvested so many butternut squash. So many and there's still so many to harvest. You can see those little white areas. This does actually slope down and they need a little bit more water so I thought maybe water would pool down here. We've got pumpkins to pick too that are now ready. So we've got the pumpkins. We've got all the squash but I'm going to go through and start harvesting some of this stuff. They're going to get the dump cart and so let's do our little garden chores. Extraordinary thing. It's the lifeblood of summer. It's the only thing I could survive on in summers. Seriously. We like our melons don't we? Mmhmm. Welcome. Welcome. Hello. Welcome. Welcome. Welcome back to my acostume. Welcome back to my guest room. Welcome back to my home. Welcome back to my house. Welcome back to myホ muốn. Welcome back to your stay. Welcome back. Welcome back to my house. Welcome back to my rencont. Welcome back to myTerco City Leslie chilly. Welcome back to the hotel. Welcome back to your host. Welcome back. Welcome back to your parents. Welcome back. Welcome back. these pumpkins look real cute I got some barbs in those stems it'll get stuck in your hands and hurts so bad I got one stuck in my hand last week and it I couldn't get it out for like three days I think my hand finally just broke it up because I just couldn't get it hurt so bad I think the okra flowers are just so pretty they kind of look like hibiscus I think they're the same family the okra and the hibiscus taxes taxes for the king pay your taxes it's the law pay your taxes for the king taxes for the king he's protecting your land totally not like there's any bandits around but you're the bandit take your taxes I always love it when Ollie helps because he definitely keeps us laughing he is a lot like his dad I get that comment all the time on my videos that he's a lot like his dad he is but he's himself too he's just funny kid who LGBTIA I'm not glad you can do that thank you to my class la EXERSTAND it's easy to mention that it's hard for only 3 fields of the bandit take your time oh in these time so think still isn't perfect but there are some such vragen here in L mail and the video you've seen with him and viewer's Houston Zahlen big sing he gets to the Well, the goats heard the chain, so now they're after the kids, but I had to distract them with some lovin's, and sometimes it works. We've been filling up this water on the side of the house twice a day for them, so it looks like it's already full. Jay probably filled it up. It rained a little this morning, so it may have just filled it. And you know, I didn't even get to harvesting my peppers or tomatoes today, but that is one heck of a harvest. I am just so impressed with this garden this year. I've put very little into it, really. I guess I did at first, and I've kind of trimmed it up, but I've kind of given up on it a little bit, but it did its work. Oh, this watermelon was so good. I wish I could send you some to taste, because it was the epitome of a summer watermelon. Just so yummy and juicy and sweet. And this hot weather means that as soon as we're done with chores, kids always get in the pool. That's their favorite way to cool down. I want to thank you so much for watching today. I hope you enjoyed our little tour of Ollie and Audrey's daily chores. And if you do want to check out Hisaya, I'll leave that link in the description box. I can't wait to chat with you in the comments, and I'll see you in the next one. Bye.