The Five Principles of Soil Health - Cover Crop Summit
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M4Rn2WxE350
Education
 Well, good morning, everyone. Thank you for allowing me to be here today. I'm going to talk to you a little bit about the five soil health principles. My name is Darrell Oswald, and I manage the Burley County Soil Conservation District. I've been with the district for 25 plus years. I am also a farmer and a rancher from northeast Burley County, a fourth-generation rancher, and near Wing up there in the northeast corner. And this particular slide is to lead off as a picture of the Minocan Farm. Some of you, or maybe all of you, are familiar with the Minocan Farm. It's our conservation demonstration farm owned and operated by the Burley County Soil Conservation District. I'm going to lead off, of course, we've talked about these a little bit in the past, and in our ag production model in general, and mine included on our farm and ranch, which I'm going to relate to most today, we have to have some, we have to identify our ecological, or excuse me, our agricultural resource concerns. And really, these are symptoms of landscape simplification. And, you know, leading off, of course, we have the wind and water erosion. We still have that across North Dakota quite readily, of course. We see it in Burley County and every county across the state. The salinity thing is really coming to to roost for us, and that's become troublesome. Our lack of plant diversity and cover. We've really simplified the landscape and the crop rotations. We've taken a lot of livestock off the land, and, of course, our animal impact. And we can have a drought and a flood in the same year, which tells me, as a farmer and a rancher, if I correlate that to Oswald Ranch, it tells me that I don't have any resiliency in the system. And, of course, with that, we had Lindsey talk about carbon, carbon, and, of course, carbon drives the cycle, or the system. And, of course, exporting carbon off your farm and ranch. Again, agriculture is an extraction business. That's going to happen. But we have to understand that we have to put more carbon back into the system than we take out, and that can lead to carbon deficient soils. This is a page out of the Nature and Properties of Soils that I use quite readily. And, again, correlating back to my own farm and ranch, you look at the factors promoting the gains and losses of organic matter in soils, which helps drive the system. And, of course, the gains is when the soil health principles, if you look down that list, I won't read them all, but as you look down that list, you see that the principles that we're going to talk about really pertain to the factors promoting the gains and really have very little to do with any of the factors promoting the losses. And the soil health principles, again, I won't read them off to you, but you can see this slide has been around the world and back many times, and it correlates to soil health. And the soil health principles are universal. We were having a discussion here with the group this morning. But you need to scope them to your particular farm and ranch and to your particular situation. The principles work on any scale, large or small. Currently at the Minocan Farm, our urban gardening and our outdoor gardening and our high tunnel gardening all employ the soil health principles. And again, working on a very large scale, excuse me, small scale. And so they are very universal in that regard. We always lead off with the, or at least I do, I always lead off with armoring the soil as the number one principle. I believe that, again, you can't really get the system going, you can't move it forward until you start protecting the soil. This particular photo is off of Oswald Ranch. This is a cover crop that we did graze. And I can assure you that armoring the soil doesn't look like that all the time at the ranch, but I thought it was pretty vindictive or in a good indicator of where we like to be on our ranch when it comes to armoring the soil. And again, this happens to be crop residue. And that's one way that you can achieve armor. And of course, the other way would be by growing plants. Most of the carbon in this dead litter goes into the atmosphere as carbon dioxide. And of course, the green plants gives us an inlet for carbon going into the soil. And again, armor is very, very important and is generally in my world is always led off as the first principle. Here I've shown an example. Again, armor on our farm and ranch pertains a lot to how we graze. We do some farmland or cropland or some annual cropping, but we do way more grazing. And this particular photo, I think, shows the armor on the native, graze native range that we like to try to achieve. And we're out there. One of my mentors, Gene Govan from Turtle Lake, used to say that his goal was to capture every raindrop where it falls. And we've kind of taken the same mantra at Oswald Ranch. And we feel that this is the way that we can do this. And again, we're reducing our evaporation rates, our soil temperatures. We built more resiliency in the system during the drier periods because of the armor that we have on. And we can reduce the temperature. We're not evaporating the water per se. And as Carlos stated, this is generally a very, very good, provide great habitat for the soil food web. And we think it's very important. So this is how we employ armor on our operation. Minimizing soil disturbance. Again, I put an emphasis on physical disturbance because that is the thing that we generally relate the most to. We do have to work, I believe, across our production model in eliminating physical disturbance as much as we can. We know that tillage removes pore spaces and slowly compresses the soil, much like if we were building the road. We talk about water infiltration and air movement. And of course, tillage restricts all of that. And then, of course, it takes off any of the soil that we did have in our previous and first soil health principle. And I think someone said, too, that when we till or disturb, we release a burst of carbon dioxide resulting in carbon loss. And of course, we want to have more carbon coming into the system than going out. Physical disturbance can also, or excuse me, soil disturbance can also be related to, I think, too much chemical use, pesticide use, use. That scenario as well. Too much overgrazing. I think that we, when we see season-long grazing, we see soil disturbance in some places and not at others. And so, the soil disturbance is important in, again, keeping the area intact for the soil food web and making the soil pore spaces stay intact. Continually growing living plants in the soil. This gets stated many times, but it can't be reiterated enough. Our soils were built with perennials with a huge root mass. And of course, we farm, or in our current production model, we tend to farm with annuals with a smaller root mass. And that leads to some issues that we need to think about. A green plant continually growing is beneficial because, again, nature is a constant feed process. Agriculture is an extraction business. We're extracting something. And we need to be thinking in terms of putting something back. And of course, a continual growing live plant in the soil does that and continue to build soil aggregates. And I'll show you a slide coming up that pertains a little bit to that. And of course, talking today, this is a cover crop summit. And we know that cover crops can fill in what otherwise would be a period where nothing is growing. And again, gives us an opportunity to continue bringing carbon into the soil. This is a full season, cool season cover crop that we raised at Oswald, that we planted and raised up at the ranch. It's, we do different mixes periodically. And we do switch to full season, full season, cool season mixes at times. And we find that they work very well during the middle of the grazing season, right before our breeding season, which tends to be a little bit later than, than most operations. But still, the philosophy is, of course, that we can have a high energy, high nutrient mix in place where we can graze in late July, early August. And then, of course, we'll, we'll, we'll graze that by managing it much the way we do all of our perennials and our native and our tame grass. And, and we're actually, sometimes we're fortunate enough to actually get another grazing on it later in October, or October and November, if the season allows us to do that. But soil carbon, again, most cropping systems and most rotations cannot, you cannot increase soil carbon without the use of cover crops. And we've seen that on our farm and ranch. And, again, when you think about these cool season cover crops, the below ground carbon allocation is generally maximized during that first four to eight weeks. And so a huge amount of biomass is not always required to be highly effective in building soil aggregates and, and increasing carbon. And I, I've got some slides too. Here's an example of a huge amount of biomass that we all like to see. Again, this is another full season, warm season cover crop on the Oswald ranch. Again, when I differentiate between cool seasons and warm seasons, the species listed in there, some of them are very similar. Most of them are not in the fact that, again, when you look at the contents of this mix, this contains a lot of warm season species. And this particular mix generally is seeded on our place from the very, oh, the last week in May until the middle of June. And our cool season mixes, we try to get in, you know, mid April to, you know, maybe that first week in June. And so we're, we're achieving different things. Again, you can see the large biomass. It's fun to hide in. This is particular pictures of this, my two daughters playing in the cover crop. A while back. And again, diversity is the key. I think cover crops are all good, even the simple ones, but the more diversity that we can get in there, I think that more the microbes and the soil food web, more of the soil food web we can feed. Because again, when we manage holistically or have that thought process, we're trying to mimic nature. And when you look back at the native population or the native grasses, there was a huge, huge amount of diversity. And that's what we're trying to do with each of these cover crops. Continually growing plants in the high tunnel. I think Jay will touch on this a little bit. But I wanted to show that, again, cover crops or continually growing plants in the high tunnel is important too. Not just during the garden season, but building soils in the high tunnel as long as possible. And keeping a green growing plant intact. Plant diversity. I touched on this a little bit. Can be accomplished by growing all four crop types. And I think we miss that some of the time with your warm and cool season grasses and your warm and cool season broadleaves. Most effective to have a rotation heavier and high carbon plants, crops such as wheat or corn, not low carbon crops like soybeans. Some of the diversity issues that we deal with now are corn and bean rotations. And I think that there's some opportunity and we've shown that at the Minocan Farm and with some individual producers across the landscape in North Dakota, that we can add more diversity into that rotation, especially with the soybean realm. And I think that that's important. And that kind of takes away that angst, if you will, of soybeans being a low carbon crop. We know this, that high carbon plants build soils because again, to reiterate this, it brings additional carbon into the soil profile and builds the resiliency that we want in our system. And the amount and quality of carbon from crop residue contributes to the amount of soil carbon. And it goes back to our individual beginning slides there with armor and having a green growing plant as much as possible and minimizing your disturbance. Again, to reiterate the soil health principles are meant to be used in a system with a systems approach. And I think that that's important to remember. Every green plant is a carbon inlet. Again, we've harped on this quite a bit. The most potent tool with which to build a healthy soil is a live plant. And I think Lindsay again said this, that photosynthesis is the primary process that feeds the soil. And so when I look at myself as a manager and owner of Oswald Ranch, essentially I manage plants with photosynthesis and sunlight. And so, and then of course, I become a microbe manager. More importantly than actually the cattle that I raise and the crops I raise, I deal with photosynthesis and managing microbes. And we know that a cropping system that creates these favorable habitats plants. And the one that will capture the most energy from the sun will restore soil health the quickest. And we often get this question a lot regarding the soil health principles. You know, how quickly can we turn things around? And my answer to them, of course, is always how much are you willing to, how many principles are you willing to utilize? How many and how will you be managing the principles? Because again, they are universal, but they are very unique and must be adapted to your scenario. And that doesn't matter if you're a farmer or rancher, a demonstration farm, a research farm, or any of that, they all have to be adapted to this, to that situation. So, finally, livestock integration, which is really one of my favorites or my favorite, of course, near and dear because of the livestock aspect and the ranching heritage that we have. And again, we know that animals and the plants and the soils have been together since the beginning of time or forever. And of course, livestock integration is important to balance those carbon to nitrogen ratios, converting your high carbon crops, if you will, into the low carbon organic material. And livestock create the opportunity for even more soil carbon. This particular photo is actually out at the Minocan Farm and we're grazing one of our full season cover crops. But the simplification of the landscape and the taking away of the livestock, I think, is vitally important. How do we know if soil health is improving? Again, I won't list all those things there, but you can read them. And that's how we look at things on our farm and ranch. That's how we look at things at the Minocan Farm. Are we increasing stability? Are we infiltrating water? Decades ago, growing up, our water cycle on our ranch, I believe, was severely impaired or broken. And of course, I've worked to try to fix that. And of course, our organic matter increases. Are we seeing crop response? Are we reducing inputs? And are we seeing an upward trend? This is a simple version of a Minocan farm from 2009 to 2020 on soil organic matter. If you know there's many things that help drive the system, but soil organic matter seems to be a popular one. And if you look across the graph, again, you'll see that field six has the highest organic matter over time. And we see this is the one field that had the most crop diversity, the most use of cover crops and most livestock integration. So that does answer your question, how quickly or it can be a piece of the question or the answer to the question, how quickly can we change some things around? And we know that when we implement those principles of diversity and use the cover crops and livestock integration, we tend to see an upward trend in the positive soil attributes. This is a soil organic matter on Oswald Ranch from 2023. This particular field was a full season cover crop field that I've been experimenting with. And I actually had an annual crop in there in 2024. And you can see that there is some positive things that are occurring. This particular study was done by ICDISIS and was fortunate enough to be part of one of their studies. And I had two fields that participated in that. And so I was pleasantly surprised to see that we're seeing a positive trend trend in upward. And so we know that things are improving. This is the water infiltration at Oswald Ranch, again, in milliliters per second. And you can see that we're able to infiltrate quite well. I don't know or I haven't figured how that goes towards inches per hour. But we seem to have more severe rain events at home or more impactful, if you will. And we seem to be handling them better than we ever did as far as runoff. And again, the lighter events were able to capture all the moisture that we can. And And so, you know, you probably heard the little funny that someone asked you how much it rained. And you used to say, you know, well, half an inch or 20 hundredths or three quarters of an inch. And now my reply generally is I captured all of it. How much did it rain? And I got it all. So, which is a good thing. This is the corn crop on that particular field. This is my youngest daughter, Afton, enjoying the day in the corn crop. This is a cover crop. This is a cover crop field or a soil health field, as I like to call it, that we were able to raise 110 bushel corn on with very limited inputs. Actually, it didn't have any fertility on it. I do attribute it to, again, 2024 being a very good year as far as moisture and that. But we were able to net, you know, some pretty good profit off this field because of our lack of inputs on it. And this just kind of shows you this is the same field that was in 2023. The organic matter has gone down some. We've used some of that storage in the tank. And but we've got a plan to build it back up again. And we like to take a swing at the ball every once in a while with these annual crops and see how far our system with using the soil health principles, how far can we push it? How far can we drive it? And of course, with the armor on here and stuff, we were able to limit our pesticide use as well. So we were pretty pleased about that. Again, using the soil health principles and adapt them to your production model. You know, you know, you can you can read through them. And again, keeping the soil covered, minimizing disturbance. Good things are going to happen if you can adapt them to your production model. And we've seen that over time at the Minocan Farm and Oswald Ranch and other producers places, again, across the landscape. And and so, again, the soil health principles are vital, I believe, going forward to to help mitigate some of these resource concerns that we have across the state. So I think I'm pretty close to right on. I might be a minute over. I apologize for that. But again, a little self-education slide. W.W. Minocan Farm dot com. And we do have a YouTube channel and at Minocan Farm as well. And thank you. For. Listening today, John, appreciate the presentation. I'm like you. I'm doing a lot of the similar stuff, grazing cattle. Yeah, I've got my and I'm curious of your opinion and anybody else that wants to chime in on this. I got myself into a situation this year where I've got some additional land for grazing and it was previously. Silage cornfields. Silage cornfields. Silage cornfields. And I'm kind of being handed dead ground. They had harvest the corn off of it, put a very sparse winter kill cover crop on it when they were done. And it sat bare all last season. And now I'm coming into it now. If I had time during the winter, I may have, you know, round bale grazed it to get some armor on the soil or something. But now it doesn't have much of anything. I have access to a lot of composted, mostly composted wood chips. And I was thinking about spreading that on to get some armor on the soil. But the first thing that everybody says is that all your nitrogen is going to get locked up into it. I thought about possibly mixing that with some poultry litter that I also have available to me to, at the same time, be putting nitrogen on it with that armor and carbon. Curious of your guys' input. I guess, first off, I think that tie-up will depend on how composted your wood chips are. I think if they're a long way down the road, you'll probably be just fine. You can put that on and proceed. I don't have much experience in poultry litter, Patrick, but I think it would act like other manure when used, again, for lack of a better term, responsibly. I would try to get out there and get a cool season cover crop on that ground if you're able as quickly as possible. And then manage to graze it. And then get some litter back on there and lay some of that carbon material on the ground, on the surface. And then get that covered up. Again, armor number one in my book. And again, it's just how I view things, but you need to get that protected and covered. And you can add your compost. If you're in doubt, I guess, too, you could get it tested. But, you know, cool season mix on there with quite a bit of, you know, cool season grass or something that'll get you some biomass. You know, and then start working on your legume and, you know, your more fragile peas and stuff later. Yeah, the situation where because it was dead, there was no cover, there was no living root system for a year. Erosion took its toll. And because there's nothing holding the ground together, you drive onto it with a truck or any piece of equipment and you kind of sink right away. Unfortunately, I got to wait for drier conditions before I could even get a look at drilling in anything to it. Okay. But, yeah, I got myself into a heck of a project. Well, congratulations, I guess. I mean, you're going to make it better, no doubt. And that landowner will thank you. Again, maybe keeping the initial cover crop simple then, if you're facing some challenges. But, again, try to get it in there when you can and get it protected, I think, is the first thing. And then use the livestock to get the biomass to the ground and start building some biology in there.