Amazing Modern Bale Picker Stacker Machines You Need To See
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m4yU18Log2I
Science & Technology
 Welcome back to another video from Lord Gizmo. Today we're going to be looking at a variety of Bale Picker stackers. Who knew hay could be so interesting? Make sure to like and subscribe if you want to see more of this type of content. The Jaden Accumulator is designed to be mounted directly behind your small square baler and collect 15 bales as they exit the bale chamber. When the bales have formed a neat pack, the tray tips up and gently slides the bales onto the ground, where they can be collected. The accumulator's functions are all controlled from the tractor cab, making it very simple and easy to use. The Bale Bandit is a small square bale packaging machine that is completely automatic. Using small square bales directly from the baler, the Bale Bandit stacks them three high and seven deep, resulting in a 21-bale bundle that can be handled with standard loader attachments. The fully automated system of the Bale Bandit unloads on the go, allowing for continuous, non-stop baling. This infield packaging solution improves efficiency from producer to end user, making the ultimate one-man baling operation. Unlike other bale accumulators, this hail accumulator system does not rely on hydraulics, electronics, or chains. It pushes the bales up and out of the chute by its plunger. As the bales slide down the accumulator bed, the last bale in each row swings a gate open, allowing the next row to begin. The last bale in the group unlocks the back gate. As the accumulator unloads, springs and counterweights automatically return all the gates to their starting position, ready for the next bale. The Haukas Bale Cart comes with two bale chambers that are designed to gather the bales without damaging the wrapping. Its wide row spacing allows for the trailer to dry between the bale row for fast loading. The bales can be picked up at 4 miles per hour. The operator just has to slide over the bale. Its use is so simple that even a novice operator can safely and quickly collect bales. that. The RBM Pro 2000 is a self-loading bale mover specifically built for wrapped round bales of up to 5 feet in diameter. It comes with 3 double hydraulic outlets that has the capacity to take 14 to 20 bales per load. All it takes is a driver and comparatively less fuel than other balers. In short, the RBM Pro 2000 is fast, efficient, and cost-effective. It更 has needed. The Stinger Stacker 6500 is designed to handle 12 bales at a time. Its powertrain includes a Cummins 9.0L 320hp high efficiency turbo diesel engine that produces 1250 lbs of torque. Its designed cab has industry leading features like Sears designed seat and cruise controls, a 3M UV ray blocking window tint, and many other features to make those long days go by smoothly.蛋 has episode 2 of rяти. Everybodyas things easy to move every one hour. Femalepsy is charged with racial rhythm The self-propelled Bale Baron has all the features that you can expect from a state-of-the-art machine. Because of cameras around the machine and status monitors on the cab, the operator can see and operate comfortably. The advanced four-wheel drive system and wide-flotation tires enable easy working in varied field conditions such as mug ground and sandy soil. It takes power from a 6.8-liter John Deere six-cylinder turbocharged 173-horsepower diesel engine and has an air ride suspension and hydrostatic and dynamic brakes. These features allow the machine to travel safely and comfortably from field to field at a top speed of 30 miles per hour. The self-propelled Bale Baron The self-propelled Bale Baron If you have any thoughts about what you just watched or have ideas for future videos, comment them down below. If you enjoyed what you just saw, feel free to like and subscribe. And don't forget to hit the notification bell too. Thanks for watching and we hope to catch you next time.