Job opportunities at a farm & construction equipment dealership
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7asMR_omd0
Autos & Vehicles
 Messick's, a helping hand with your land. Neil from Messick's here. Today I'm going to go and walk you around our dealership a little bit and show you some of the job opportunities that exist in an organization like ourselves. One of the things that I think we're all a little concerned to see is just the general lack of youth in this industry. If you go through and you look at, say, the average age of dealership staff or the average age of your typical farmer at this point, a lot of the youth and younger people in the younger generations just aren't choosing this industry as a place to work, which I think is sad. If you're coming out of one of those environments and you come off the farm, there are a lot of places that you can rejoin this industry, even if you're not out in a field driving a tractor. So if your passion happens to be accounting or technology or you name it, there's a place for you in a location such as ourselves. So I'm just going to walk around today and show you some of those opportunities that you might want to consider as future careers. If you look over my shoulder over here, you'll find a bunch of guys that don't want to be on camera. Why are you doing that? Stop. Cut it down. These will largely be our sales staff, and you're going to find a lot of guys coming from other trades and other industries in order to become an equipment salesman. Oftentimes it's people who are just socially well connected, right? If you're a people person, we can teach you the ins and outs of selling equipment and dealing with manufacturing programs and pricing and financials and that kind of thing. It's an interesting place to be in. The best guys in this have come out of largely construction fields. So guys that might have worked out in the field for a contractor during labor work who decide eventually that physical work is too hard for them and choose to move into a sales type role. There's also some guys back here with business degrees that would have come out of school with those kinds of things and then moved into sales eventually. Just that sales and management type role, you'll find a lot of guys doing that. As you've gotten more established and grow, you can move into sales manager, store manager type roles. Oftentimes will come out of the sales or the parts or service departments. So there's definitely places to advance to a dealership as you move from entry level positions up into store manager roles. How are you? No, no, no, no. This is Shelby and Shelby is our store mom. I get called that all the time anyway. Most of our locations have some kind of mom type role. If you've had, you know, children at home and you're looking for part time work or whatever, somebody in order to be in the dealership to take care of cleaning up after the rest of us, making coffee in the morning and just taking care of all of us in the way that we need it. It is a necessity within a location like this and one of our favorite people to have around. The parts guys back here behind me are probably the place that I would be working in if it wasn't doing what I do today. The parts guys are kind of professional problem solvers, right? If you've got a head for technical details, for machinery, for diagrams, for how things work, for electronics and those kinds of things, there's a lot of real depth of knowledge in the parts department. It is a very cool role in that if it's something that you commit yourself to and you build that knowledge over the years, you'll have customers coming to you time and time again because they value the knowledge that you've created. So it's a very neat role in that you can really put yourself into a very significant position after a couple years and bring a lot of value to the people that you're helping. A lot of customers will tell you they're very keen to the fact that a good parts technician is just worth their weight in gold. A lot of these guys come from a lot of varying backgrounds. Some of them will start right out of high school or just about any college degree we can take into a role like this. Also guys that will move over from automotive fields, construction, that kind of thing. Anybody with a mechanical aptitude really can become a very good parts technician. In a parts department, there's a lot more work that happens after you've figured out what part you need and order it. There's a whole staff of clerical and analytical people that sit behind that, making sure that the right pieces are ordered and logistically come in, and statistical guys sitting and working out to make sure that we've got the right stuff on hand in order to meet your needs. So definitely a lot of needs in terms of clerical staff and also people coming with an analytical and statistical backgrounds in order to bring that operational excellence really to a parts department like ours. Cody and Seth are two guys here that work in our precision farming department. If you've got a head for technology, the stuff that these guys do with equipment is really, really cool. Self-driving cars are a thing, but we've been driving tractors along for far longer than they've been out in the road. If you come into this kind of stuff, coming to some kind of technology background, be it computer programming, applications, that kind of stuff, it's a really great field to come from. A lot of times, too, we've been able to take guys who are operators that run this kind of stuff out in the field and understand how it works and give a little bit more technical training to be able to support other customers. So if you've got that real depth of knowledge for the technology side of things, Precision Farming is an awesome place to work. This is actually my office, and we work up here with the IT marketing staff. Mike over here would be a help desk guy. Generally, you're going to have to have, for every 60 to 75 people or so in an organization, somebody in order to back them up on their technology needs. So Mike over here helps with that. Also have Ryan over here who helps with all of our marketing, going through doing ad design buys and that. kind of stuff. So any kind of people that work in a marketing agency type background would fit real well into a dealership organization. You don't have to pay too much attention to the news to know that there is a huge lack of people going into trade type work at this point. And mechanics and service technicians, we would absolutely include in that. If you're a person who can learn these skill sets to turn wrenches and work on pieces of equipment and fix things, your skills are going to be very, very in demand in the future. They are today. But when we go into the industry and we look at the aging out of so many people in this industry, without more people coming in, we're just not making enough service technicians in order to keep the ball rolling. So dealerships like ours, you know, we work in apprenticeship programs and that kind of stuff to try to bring people into this industry. But if you're say an auto mechanic and you're looking to make a little bit more money or raise the bar on the kind of equipment that you're working on, looking for more variety coming into agriculture can be really interesting and give you a lot of opportunities. These guys are very, very hard workers and bust their balls and put in a lot of hours, but they get compensated for it too. So it could be a quite lucrative position at the same time. So really cool if you could pick up those skill sets. You know, we send people around the world to go to training for some of this big equipment, and you can really build a knowledge base and in a career in a place like this. So we're up here in the service office for this shop, and you're going to find guys running a lot of different roles. And you're going to have customer service oriented service writers dealing with customers, taking their needs and bringing that stuff into the shop. And then service managers taking care of the technicians, scheduling their day and making sure that they have everything they need in order to do their job. Best people in these kinds of roles are people that generally come out with business backgrounds. There's obviously some workflow clerical people work involved that are going to really work for people coming from a lot of different industries. But there's a lot of business acumen that happens in the shop for making sure guys are working efficiently and shops are turning a profit. It's a lot more difficult than what you would think. Well, people are generally most familiar with the front end parts sales service rental type people. There's a lot of additional people that go into making a dealership work. You can work on say the accounting and clerical side, doing things like running dealership financials, paying our vendors, collecting from customers. There's both a good combination of mix of pure clerical staff, but also professional staff as well that make all of that work and verify what we do day to day. So as you can see in a dealership setting, there's very few skill sets that we can't find a home for. So if you're a person that has some kind of passion for agriculture and you just feel like there's no opportunities for you in this industry, let me be one here to sit and tell you you're wrong. It's places like us and a whole number of farm co-ops and manufacturers or right near New Holland agriculture. There's a lot of different ways that you can still be in this industry, be connected to people that you're used to working with and seeing, even if you're not out on a farm driving a tractor. So if we might be a place for somebody like you, you could check out the careers page at Messick's. We're almost always looking for good qualified people to join our team. Do you want to be in a video? Everybody's in a video today. No, you just need to sit here. You can stay here and eat sushi. It's the precision for me guys that are like cool enough to sit and eat sushi all day long. I'm actually just standing back to come on it right? Yeah, totally. Stuffed peppers and Netflix, that's what you get to have for lunch. We're going to put you at the very end of the video where the credits go and all the bloopers usually are. You want to see a blooper? Watch it.