Factors Affecting Farming
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7Sz01oRn3c
Education
 Hi and welcome to another revision video. In this video we'll be talking about the factors affecting farming. There are many different factors affecting farming and different regions are affected by those different factors. Many of those factors tend to be social, for example labour. Labour makes a large difference to farming. Where machines can be used instead of workers, production can often be faster and cost less than that of the cost of labour to do the same job. This tends to be in the MADCs where labour is more expensive. Labour can increase or decrease output and ultimately affect the profitability of a farm. Capital, or the money available, is another impact. Farmers' access to finance to invest in their farm will also have an effect on yield. A farmer may not be able to afford new machinery to speed up output. Can they also afford a new fence to keep other predators, hunters and other issues out? Can they afford pesticides and fertilisers for better quality produce? Ultimately, if these things are affordable, the farm will be more profitable and thus have more money to invest or repay finances borrowed in order to grow. Technology, such as irrigation or machinery, will affect the output of a farm. Often, in MADCs, industrial sized greenhouses with lighting, CO2 and watering conditions to increase growth rates, leads to faster and better quality crop yield, and thus profitability. Those without such technology may rely on the natural seasonal sunshine, floodplains or other weather-dependent factors to achieve similar results, and during a bad period, production may decrease. Markets, by which we mean the demand for produce in a given area, may be different. Seasons may again affect the demand from some farms if crops could be grown in one place for only half a year, but elsewhere all year round. Other factors may include how profitable different crops become, and farmers may have to reconsider what to grow in order to make the most money for their space. Government has a large effect on farming as they can often help or hinder farm production with legislation. For example, some farms receive subsidies or finances to help support production, while others have to meet expensive requirements for the increasing welfare of animals. Environmental factors also play a part in farming. As mentioned before, climate plays a big role in production on rural farms. Many farms, particularly in Africa, are experiencing large problems in production and yield due to the effects of climate change. Flooding, hurricanes and other storms can destroy both plants and buildings, whilst the lack of rain can also hinder the growth of plants. Relief, or the position of farms, can also affect production. Plants built on low lands can make the most of floodplains and the tide. Soil stiffness can also make it difficult to place machinery in certain areas where water is unable to drain easily. Temperature decreases 6.5 degrees for every 1000 meters gained, affecting what is possible to grow in mountainous areas. South-facing slopes gain more sunlight and help plants to photosynthesize. Soil, soil quality can affect the minerals available that are necessary for certain plants to grow and reduce the need for irrigation and machinery. Typional shells will reduce the large and structural acamp now on the ground. On that it is in a really peligrosiawn city, right out in flux, is not anlamação normal to producing bacteria at water. Competitive water modér MX性- Deus Esteban and for more videos go to revisionvideos.com