Leasing Ranch Equipment | Aaron Berger | June 5 2020
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M8iBHxOPbjs
Education
 Finally today, most ranchers want to make sure they've got the best tools for the job, but that doesn't always mean buying the latest and greatest in agricultural technology. Market Journal's Maddie McIntosh spoke with Nebraska Extension Beef Systems Educator Aaron Berger on what producers should consider before purchasing new equipment. Nebraska Extension Beef Systems Educator Aaron Berger knows costs are important to a ranching operation. A major one of these costs is equipment, and it's important to evaluate whether new equipment is worth the price. After feed, usually labor and equipment is the second largest expense. And when we look at the cost of new equipment today, especially in relation to the value of production, we've really seen those started to, I think, increase over time. What I mean by that is the cost of equipment versus value of production can get out of whack. And so paying attention to that. I think being creative, really evaluating are there some things I could do differently with my equipment that would reduce my overall equipment cost. And some of that might be changing production management. Some of that may be just thinking about how to share equipment or lease equipment, do something different than what you're currently doing. There are five major factors that make up the real cost of the equipment, which all together form the acronym DIRTY. So I think when you think about a piece of equipment, you really need to ask, you know, what is the cost of owning this piece of equipment? That dirty five factor, depreciation, interest repairs, tax, and insurance. And then what's the value I'm getting back from owning that piece of equipment? What's it doing for me? If that piece of equipment is not returning me more value than what it costs, then I need to evaluate how do I eliminate that piece of equipment or replace it with a piece of equipment that does capture value for me, does return more than its cost. And that dirty acronym, depreciation, interest repairs, taxes, and insurance. Those are five things that go into ownership of equipment. Depreciation is the big expense. And again, if I go out and I buy a new piece of equipment, my depreciation initially is pretty high. As that piece of equipment gets older, then my repair bill probably starts to go up because everything's starting to wear out. I'm going to need to do some work with that. So the total of those five things, depreciation, interest repairs, taxes, and insurance, somewhere, a ballpark estimate, somewhere 18 to 20%. I think I just encourage people to think about that, those values as they think about equipment and what they have invested there. Alongside using dirty, producers need to ask themselves some serious questions before purchasing equipment for their cow-calf operations. So I think you need to ask yourself, what does this piece of equipment do for me in the operation? Is this something I use routinely? Is it really needed? And in those cases, could I rent that piece of equipment? Could I share a piece of equipment with somebody else? And that can really provide maybe an option for you to buy a piece of equipment, maybe in conjunction with a couple of neighbors. Maybe it's something that you use just a couple weeks to the year. Could there be an opportunity to lease a piece of equipment and use it for a set amount of time? What are the things that you can do with that piece of equipment instead of maybe needing to own it outright that could help you use that resource more effectively? Lastly, Aaron says keeping track of what you own is important so you don't lose out on the value of old equipment. In some cases, we can see equipment inventories creep over time. The challenge with that is over time, we can start to accumulate more and more pieces of equipment and we can have a really large equipment inventory. And the value of that equipment in comparison to what we're getting from the production of it can sometimes get out of whack. And so really trying to be efficient with what we have, thinking about what does this equipment do for me and really can I justify having it. Reporting for Market Journal, I'm Maddie McIntosh. No Eagleк. No burada. No can. No Xia Gul Gonna Incish is playing the game. No it that's going to be very similar. An Ideairas Art Report the Mood atами Atlanta is very important to talk about large especie of equipment and I know for Bartop schaffen stuff doesn't remain there. To be more задачashi and 어떡 bre Information disturbed for Christmas You don't know exactly what I've ever seen