Cannabis Breeding Methods - Backcrossing with Khalifa Genetics 🌿
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m_-OeYVHU-A
Education
 Hey what is up Khalif fans this is Al from Khalifa genetics and what we're gonna go over today is back crossing also known as BX for short a lot of you guys probably know that it's a breeding method a lot of breeders use it however what you probably don't know yet is that in most cases BX is BS yeah in most cases it is used for the wrong reasons so what we're gonna do today let's talk about what back crossing is first and then we're gonna talk about why you should avoid using that method in most cases not always and finally we're gonna discuss the exact specific situations when it's actually a great idea to use that method stay tuned so what is back crossing well in theory it's very simple back crossing means crossing a hybrid to one of its parents so here on the whiteboard you have the parents two parents and the F1 generation the generation resulting from the first cross between those two different parents genetically different parents a back cross is crossing one of these offsprings to one of the parents the parent that we're gonna choose for crossing the offspring with is going to be called the recurrent parent and the other one is gonna called it's gonna be called the donor parent it's because this one will only be used one time however the recurrent parent is gonna be used over and over again as much as we want so the first back cross or BX one is right here we've made our hybrid F1s right here then we picked a plant that we wanted we use that plant to back cross to one of its parents the recurrent parents the recurrent parent right here and then after crossing those two we created the BX one the first back cross we can then repeat the process several times the more you repeat the process the more the offspring becomes like the recurrent parent it does not mean genetically stable it means like the recurrent parent so why do we do it well sometimes we back cross because we want to reinforce certain traits for instance let's say that this plant is very mold sensitive and we want to create an outdoor cultivar an outdoor strain so we don't want our strain to be mold sensitive so what do we do we're gonna back cross to the parent that is highly mold resistant and we're gonna do it several times in order to get the desired results however we don't know here in this case if this parent is highly homozygous which means highly genetically stable highly uniform and genetically stable what we know is that it's highly mold resistant after back crossing back crossing back crossing to this parent several times we're gonna have more and more mold resistant plants among the offspring the problem with back crossing is that a lot of people that use that method use it because they think that doing that will allow them to stabilize a cultivar to make a strain genetically stable and this is often not the case well this one like we talked about before is a very highly mold resistant strain however we don't know about genes it might pass on traits for coding for tall plants and others coding for short plants and might pass on traits coding for absolutely amazing aromas and others other alleles other versions of that gene coding for very bad terps you know disgusting aromas so we really don't know unless we sell the plant or unless we sell the plant or unless we work with it and cross it and study the offspring but that's not the point the point is that in most cases people just use one plant that they like and they back cross many times their offspring to it thinking that this is the way to create a stable cultivar a stable cultivar if people do it for that reason that it's a no no it's a red flag and it's not going to be a stable cultivar because that strain is not genetically stable to begin with We've seen what not to do. Now we're going to talk about when it's actually super smart to backcross. Backcrossing can be the way to go in certain cases. If the recurrent parent is already inbred, it's already an IBL, meaning highly genetically stable, then backcrossing to that recurrent parent will allow the breeder to create a cultivar that is going to be genetically stable. But if you backcross like we talked about before, if you backcross to something that's not genetically stable, it doesn't matter how many times you backcross it to, it's never going to be genetically stable. But in this case, yeah, it works. Elite clone. Let's say you only have one plant and it's a very beautiful plant, an incredible phenol, an elite clone. It's the only plant that you have of that cultivar, strain, whatever. You have one beautiful plant. What you can do is either self, but you're going to lose a lot of vigor, or you can backcross to that plant. Use that elite clone that you like a lot as the recurrent parent, and then backcross the offspring to it several times until you have an offspring that resemble that elite clone. And then you can work the line and stabilize it further. Increase disease resistance. Let's say you have a cultivar that is highly genetically stable that you like a lot, but unfortunately the downfall is that it's highly sensitive to some kind of disease. Let's say PM, for example. So what you can do is use a plant that's PM resistant and then backcross to the recurrent parent many times, but while keeping that PM resistance. Fixing recessive traits faster. Yeah, that's a good point. Wait a second. I'll show you guys something. See this little plant here? This is a Frosties purple-free plant. I don't know if you can see it, but this is a Frosties purple-free plant. And if I wanted to outcross that plant to another plant to, let's say, add even more color, or let's say I want to better that strain and add something to it, but then I don't want to work the line because when working with mutant strains, it's extremely hard work and there's highly recessive traits that you have to combine, not just one, but several. Well, what I can do is outcross with another plant that I really like and then backcross to my Frosties purple-free plant. And that way, I will have a lot more plants expressing the mutations among the offspring. So that's a way to fast track my breeding project. That's about it. I mean, that's all I can think of right now. So if you guys know some other ways you can actually backcross, that's actually a great way to do it, please leave a comment down below. And I hope that you've really found a whole lot of value while watching this video. If you have, comment, like the video, and subscribe to the channel. That will help us tremendously. Have an awesome day, guys. Take care. Peace!