Giselle Farm Management - web application for farm agenda management
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m_TqQWIsdmA
Science & Technology
 Giselle Farm Management is a web-based farm management system created to assist farmers and land managers achieve best practice agricultural outcomes. System runs in the cloud meaning you can manage Giselle Farm Management from any device no matter where you are. Once registered you can sign in securely to the site and view your farm. Giselle Farm Management supports the recording and planning of daily farm activities including fieldworks. You can enter information about any work done right after you have finished it. Enter the materials and amount used, the time it took, and who operated what machinery. This is enough to produce Agri-environmental scheme reports and insight into materials usage for various crops. It is mobile so you have the freedom to take Giselle Farm Management with you. It just takes an internet connection using any of your devices. You can take critical notes in the field and pinpoint that exact location for precise reference. A master calendar provides a unified view across all the farms assets and helps prepare schedules and plan out human resources and farm related activities. Giselle Farm Management fully supports the processes of controlling remote sensing which provides useful metrics for daily decisions and is in accordance with the integrated administration and control system regulatives. Giselle Farm Management is built in a way to maximize the use of available data from governmental sources. It also supports producing reports for internal use and for common agriculture policy related processes. From collecting data in the field to the analysis of remote sensing data at the Farm Manager's office, Giselle Farm Management provides a comprehensive tool for the decision-making process and follow-up of the decisions in the field of daily farm activities. From the project start to find the entry or 채 taxpayer control program on the farm Leaving at adequ κα preserve it to open bus집. The center of construction예요 2 and 8-2% markingσεіз Hot intervention año 200 suggested that the multi- בע