Hydroponic substrates
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MBik-ok530w
People & Blogs
 So we're also going to talk about another grow medium and here I have the rock wool. The rock wool actually comes in cube sizes and the rock wool is a product that's made from balsatic rock which has been blasted under very high temperatures and wound into fibers. It's a very good product for starting out growing your plants and this is because since it's been produced under very high temperatures so it provides a very highly sanitized environment for your roots and so they are less likely to encounter root diseases during the early stages of development. So some of the characteristics of the rock wool fiber is that they've got a very high void space so very high water and air holding capacity about 97% which is great. It's also got very low buffering capacity. What do I mean by that? It does not bind to water and to nutrients and so the nutrient solution that you provide to your plants is able to be supplied to the root environment. So basically I'll now go ahead and show you how you now go ahead and set up your system. I'll just demonstrate with what is already here. So the first thing that you do when you get your grow bags you lay them on the gutter and as you'll see the gutters are sloping towards the end where all the water is draining. And the first thing that you do when you get your substrate is that you hydrate them. So you through the drippers the water goes into the grow bags and the bags because they come when they're compressed they become hydrated. The second thing that you do and this is a step that you do prior the day prior to planting. So you hydrate your bags make sure they are well hydrated. Then the next thing that you do is that like I said most of the coconut coir or rather some of it maybe the suppliers have not flushed out the salt. So the next thing that you want to do is that using a sharp knife you're going to make slits. The grow bags do not come with any holes not unless you've pre-ordered from the supplier. But generally they will come not having any drainage holes and because you want good drainage for your plants. I normally make about four slits on the bag and I'll show you. So you take a sharp knife and right from the base of the grow bag you make a slit of about maybe five, three to five centimeters. So you make a slit there and about two. You make another slit there. You make another slit here. So you're just making the drainage holes to ensure that your bag is well irated. So once you've hydrated the bag you're going to make the slits like I've shown you. And once you make the slits all the water is going, all the salts and the initial water is going to be flushed out. So you're flushing out to begin with with just pure water, not any nutrients. And then with a rock hole, like I said, I'm going to show you how you make a composite, especially when you do not have a new grow bag. So I'm going to show you in the next video how you do composites. Thank you.