Unknown Title
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mBz2RuQcbMs
Unknown Category
 I'm Luis and I'm owner at the Antonio's farm and I've been farming here for ever since 2012. I have a good years and bad years but this year it looks like it's going to be a better year than last year so I'm happy. I have here raspberries, corn and strawberries. And some blueberries but the blueberry plants are small so they'll probably take another three years to be able to harvest some. And some sweet corn is coming and peppers, tomatoes are becoming some and it's about an egg. But what I'm really interested in berries, I'm a berry guy. Well because it's what I've been growing for the last six years. You know raspberries and strawberries and now I'm trying blueberries but it's kind of difficult to grow because I've never grown before so I don't know what the inputs to put it on. But I'm learning little by little. Well my great grandfather was agriculture, my grandpa, then my dad and now myself. So we've been in a generation of agriculture for a while. We're from Mexico, you know we were farming over there a long time and then year 2000, no 1972 I came over here when I was 18 years old and then I started working in orchards, grown pears, then I worked for 28 years. Around here? Around here in the valley. And then year 2000 I quit working in orchards and then I started growing my own veggies. And little by little I just became to be a, produce more and more and now I produce around four acres and that's how, yeah, four acres. And that's how I started. So I'm in this business ever since 2006. I was, I started over there in Sands Valley then I farm over there for about five years then I move over here 2012 then I've been here ever since. Yeah, I, I've been putting some fertilizers, you know horse fertilizer in there and messed it out with the soil and the soil is looking great now. So then an organic so I don't use any chemical fertilizer so pesticides whatsoever so I just do fertilizer. I mean, ah, ah, what do you call it those? Manures, yeah. I scare those in the fall. So that way if you be any problems, the soil you will clean them out. So and then that's how I do it. I have some problems with the bugs, you know, they sometimes they eat 25% but then I get the 75% myself. And that's how I, it's been working. I learned that if you keep a healthy plants, then the bugs leave them alone. Ah, the strawberries, you know, I just, I worked for somebody before I started growing it. This is back in the year 2000. I was working for this guy. I don't remember his name, but he was in the Applegate area. So he was, ah, strawberry growing. So I worked for him for three different seasons. Then I learned some, then year, year 2006 I started growing my own. And I've been learning, making mistakes and that. And I've been, ah, growing strawberries ever since. Well, no, I buy the plants first. Then after that, then the, then the start, I just transplant it every year. Got it. Then when they get four or five years old, then I get new ones. I also more new plants and plant it and do another four years and then rotate it. That's it. So this is my second year on different variety than for the last five years because this has had no variety. And it seems to me it's working really well because you can see the size of the berries, a pretty good size. And this variety is every berry. So once, ah, as adult they just keep it producing all the way to October. And you have UPICC. Well. Where do you sell your product? I sell my products at the farmers' gross. Yeah, farmers' market. Three days a week. Island co-op and shopping cart. But I haven't done that for the last two years because we had a bad year, not enough water. So I hope and I get back again in a year or two. But I usually do UPICC but this year I don't think I'm going to be able because I don't have enough. So some guy called me that he wanted 20,000 pounds. Oh, okay. For the strawberries, no, I didn't even answer him because, shoot, no, I don't have them in. I don't know where he was from but he left me a message. He was interested in buying strawberries. He was, he wanted 20,000 pounds. Way too much. My family farm, my wife, my kids, they help me during the harvest. But the rest I do myself. You know, planting and weeding and all that, irrigate. I do myself because I have a tractor and I have good implements I can take care. And I can do that myself. San's Valley, I was farming over there back in, I started over there 2006 and work all the way to 2010. But there was not enough water in there. I was pretty dry. So I was irrigating after three pans, you know, so we get it a good heavy rainy year. Then we store it as an out water. But when it was a light year raining. So then it was same problem as we last two years. So then I move over here and there was plenty water for the next four years, I think. Yeah. Then last year and the year before, we start having the same problem, not enough water. But this year it looks like it's going to be enough water. I just lost all my strawberries that I had before because they die and some of them got disease because being so dry, not enough water in early spring and late fall. And that will keep these all new plants that I planted. And these were planted in last June. So I just planted this little area here to get new plants. And then the rest, I grab the plants for here and transplant them over there in the other fields. Right over there. So you can see this about 12 rows in there and I have another area. I can put some more later whenever I get enough plants. And up above are the raspberries. And then, yeah, then I have raspberries over there. The raspberries got a little hurt too. You can see the area in the meadow and how they're turning yellow. They're dying too because of that. But they're going to come back. Once I keep them warm enough from now on, they're getting new starts coming. I grow some maceco. My wife make tortillas, tamales, you know. So this year I did it there because I was having extra land. Because, you know, it takes a little, a whole year to fill it up with the strawberries. But usually what I grow most is strawberries and raspberries. But this year, you know, I didn't have enough plants for the whole field. So I grow a little corn here and there just to keep everything filled. And peppers too. Peppers, I have some peppers that I grow for people, you know. And sometimes I make a salsa for myself for the winter. Yeah. So, you know, we've been living off the farm, my family and I. So I don't hire people because this is a family farm. My children don't want to be a farmer. They think there's too much work. So they don't want to be getting stuck like me working all the time. It's a lot of work. Sometimes it's not enough money, you know. So, but I do because I like it and I enjoy eat what I grow. And if something be coming later, hard time to get food, then I can grow my own. So I'm not afraid of that because I can grow food. So probably never happened, but I'm prepared. That's right. I'm not making a lot of money, but enough just to survive. Sometimes I got to borrow some money from my friends, not a lot, because I never want to get involved with the banks because then in a bad year, I know I can lose my business. So it's really hard for me, but I'm happy that I still survive. That's the way. Yeah. That's the way. Yeah. So I'm not making a lot of money, but sometimes I just make enough to survive. Then sometimes when the, in the winter time, then I work for somebody else doing pruning so I can make money for, to eat at that time. So I'm not dependent on all by the farm. So I do a lot of pruning. Yeah. Fruit trees, because I did. After I harvest the corn till it ended and prepare for, for the garlic, because the garlic I plant them in October and November. I put some in, in October, couple terries because it's four terries. So I do four, two and then November I do the other two. Then that way I can have a little early garlic for them. That's a three year old plants. But for the last two years they didn't grow any because I didn't put enough water. I was just keeping my life and I'm happy. I did because I was using drip just to make them survive. But now it's plenty water. So I've been giving them enough. So you can see I have no grown. Sometimes it's a 10 inches long already. So I'm happy they're coming. See. Then these blueberries for that one variety, early variety is calling chandlers. And for here up is another seven rows. This is called agroras and they're coming in a later, like in September, October. So I have different varieties that grow different times. So that way I can have a little long season. Because if I get a whole bunch all in once, it's not work for me because I only sell so much in each market. So I like to have a little bit, but long process. Then over here I plant, last year, seven short rows of blackberry tornlers. And they like this ground. Boy, they're doing really good. Look, they already have a little fruit. So tornlers because those who grown great and I like that. This is my raspberry patch. And you can see all those rows in there. Last year they were really solid rows. But I lost all those plants because for the run, being so right, no water last year. So and then you can see the rest of the plants and some are dying. But there's going to be new starts coming up. I always, I always do so. All these rows that come messy and I'm going to replant them and fall. Well, that way they can get it gone. Yeah, I want to get some more plants off of these too and then fill it up. That way, see how next year it will be. Here so, it turned out like a campus. So I put it all the way around and look at the difference in the plants. It looks beautiful. They like that. And the fruit got a little large. And this organic, 100%. I never use no chemical, fertilizer or pesticides. Good stuff. Good and tasty. That's why I like to be a farmer because nothing tastes better than from the vine to your mouth. Good enough time. Thank you very much. Good. Let's get started. Good, let's get started. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.