Six dairy farm management tips to increase longevity of dairy cows
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MG0JeUIy2kg
Pets & Animals
 music music So our last expert for the day is Joob Driessen with a presentation about the impact of farm management on the number of lactations per cow. Off you go. Thank you. Hi. Joob Driessen here with five lactations. How can we do that? The practical part of it. Well, I was born on a dairy farm in Luxembourg where I helped my dad. And I was quite a young guy. And this is my son on our sheep farm now. My dad called me out when I was 10 years old on the sheep farm. And he said, you have to help me with the calving, with giving birth to the baby lambs because I can't get in with my big hands. And I was going down in the straw and trying to get one baby out, another baby out. And then I was standing up and I was really happy and proud. And I think, wow, everybody's happy, two live lambs. I thought, I'm a vet already. It's amazing. And then I looked at my knees and both of my knees were wet. And my mother, she saw it too. And she said to my dad, hey, Joob, this is not good enough. You have to put more straw in here. It's too wet for my baby lambs. And my dad said to my mother, no, no, no, this is good enough because it's a lot of work. It costs a lot of money. And they were both right. My dad was an agricultural economist from the Wageningen University and always in the top 5% of the economic benchmarks and earning some money with his sheep. And my mother was a nurse. She was taking care of the four kids in the family and the baby lambs. And they were both right. And then I realized that this dilemma, many years later, is always there. The dilemma between care and money in every farmer's head. And that's why we have to just, we realized afterwards there is no dilemma because the better care you take, the more money you get. But it's still there in every farmer's head. So we have to work on that. Well, let's have a look at successful management around calving. Because that's the topic of the day. What happens in this period? 80% of the disease starts here. So what can we do to make that better? Well, it starts with observation. If you look at this picture, what do you see? Have a close look and you see five things. And if you look more carefully, you see even more things. And this is when you don't do a dry-off therapy. That means that the last five days of the lactation, you stop, you milk the cow for five more days, but you give them dry cow feed. So they drop from 25 to 12 liters. And then you have less leaking after dry-off. You also see the flies in the dirt. And you see the lack of bedding. So if you think about the practice, what we see in the world, cows lack bedding, soft bedding. You also see dirty hooves. And you see also the T-dams are very close to the dirty hooves. So that's all little, little things that can be improved. If you look at dry cows or any cow, I always want you to see the standing cow. Because your standing cow is your best management advisor. And cows that are standing, they're trying to tell you something. Because they have no time to stand. They should be resting and eating. Resting and eating. So a soft bed, a nice soft bed, and enough place to eat. 85 centimeters per cow, so that every cow can have 12 meals a day. Another five things on this picture. What do you see? Five things on this picture. Have a close look. If you look carefully, you see that they are standing behind the beds with two legs in the manure. Which is bad for hoof health. If you look more carefully, you see all these five cows standing in their beds have a curved back. They have a slightly curved back, so you can see they are actually lame. And that's a big issue, the lameness on dairy cows. So if you look at the facts and the figures here from the Netherlands, and the rest of Europe is not better. It's often worse. It's probably the 30% wounded and 25% lame cows. That's really striking. That's too much. 50% subclinical milk fever. And 50% bloody soles, laminitis, from standing on concrete. Cows are not made for standing on concrete. 26% mastitis, 25% subclinical ketosis. That's a result of everything we just discussed. And 20% culled in the first lactation. This is a European figure. And 12% calf losses. That's a Dutch figure. So there's a lot to improve on dairy farming. And that's why I've been busy for the last 20 years. Some of the questions were, what is the most optimum lactation number? And that was a really interesting one. Because this is a research from the Dutch figures from the CRV. And you see that we had almost 9,000 dairy cows in this graph. And what do you think? 100,000 liter cows, when do they reach the top? So the top of the dairy industry. 25,000 animals in the Netherlands did this already. And here we got the results. And it's actually 6 and 7. 7 is the ultimate top in production. The highest feed efficiency on the 7th lactation. But actually 5, 6, 7 and 8 are almost equally high. If you replace it with an 8,000 liter cow, you see that you lose 3,000 liters. So keeping the cow from 5 to 6 to 7 lactations will give you 3,000 liters extra instead of replacing that cow. So there's no reason to replace a cow. Basically, if, what Lance also said and Albert de Vries, was if you can keep them healthy. And that's a big challenge. How can you keep them healthy? I think we can double the lifetime of all the cows in the world. If you look at the figures in, I think it was in London, 200 years ago, people became 40 years old. And now they become 80 years old. So we double the lifetime of people in 200 years. I think we can do the doubling of the lifetime of cows in the next 10 years. If we just do what it takes. A place to eat, a place to cough and a place to rest. Without stress. Then we can double the lifetime of dairy cows. Because I see it already happening on the best 1% farms in the Netherlands and in the world. Every country has a farm with very high longevity or a few farms. It's only the 1%. So let's have a look at how we do that. Feed, water, light, air, rest and space. This is our Cow Signals Diamond. And this is our management protocol. How do you keep your cows healthy? And if you do so, if you get two more lactations, you have 50% less young stock. And the youngster can be ready at 23 months. And the feed efficiency of healthy cows is a lot better. Then the good question is what is already happening in the world. And this is a little statement of our Dutch farms. I did a little survey lately, 50 Dutch farms. What do you think? How many percent of the farms do a heifer hoof check? That means cleaning the hooves and trimming the heifer hooves just two months before calving. The first lactation cow before she calves. How many percent will do that? It's a winning point. These are five tips that everybody should do. But how many is already doing it? The other thing is a dry-off group. We talked about it from 20, 25 to 12 liters. Feed space per cow, 85 centimeters. Every cow needs a place to eat that it can eat with a group. Otherwise, they won't eat enough. Interesting one. And then 10 days before calving on a straw. Don't move too much cows in the last 10 days before calving. And the last one, using the cow signals cuddle box that you saw in the video. And these five things were, that's what the best farms in the world already do to get five lactations. So if you start doing those, you have a winner. And this is the results. One out of five farms is having the heifer hoof check. One out of five farms is doing the cow signals cuddle box. So that's the biggest opportunity. But also the dry-off group is not very common. And it's really a big winner. We can go back to 40 days dry cow period. But we really want to go back and milk a dry-off for more health and more longevity. Only half of them have enough feed space. And half of them is organizing the calving period really well. So there's a huge opportunity. Let's look at some practical sheets. What do you see here? Have a look. Three cows. They all tell you a story. And actually, the right one is too fat. The middle one is too skinny. And the left one is standing. Again, a standing cow is your best management advisor. Cows should rest for 14 hours to stay happy and healthy. Otherwise, they wear out their hooves. And they don't have enough feed intake. Fat cows are also a big trouble already. A lot of you have been talking about that. You see the tails hanging over the rim. That's a risk for mastitis. They don't have head space. They can't really stand up because they have no space for their heads. And they have no moving space. So what goes wrong? Actually, it's the half hour less eating. Here you see a half hour less eating from all the cows that get sick. So the question, can we see it on cows? Yes, we can see it. If we look at the sensor data and 42 days before calving, which are the cows that eat a half an hour less compared to the other cows, compared to the average of the group? And that's the 20% ends up with ketosis. The red line is the ketosis cows. There's a direct relation between eating and resting. Three and a half minutes more resting is one minute more eating time. If you look at what happens around calving, the blue line is the happy cows and the red line is 50% of the cows that are suffering subclinical milk fever. Lack of calcium. 50% of the cows, they drop seven and a half kilos feed intake around calving. And that is quite amazing. So the big question is why do 50% of the cows have low calcium? And that's a very interesting question from Lance. Is it the chicken or the egg? What is causing what? And why do we have so many cows with low calcium? My simple conclusion is they don't eat enough. They don't eat often enough around calving. They don't have easy access to feed or they don't rest enough. And it's a very interesting graph here from Schoenemann. He was actually showing on Ohio Dairies that 12% dead born on arrival, baby calves, with eight hour rest. And only 2% dead born on arrival, with 14 hours rest. And that's quite amazing. It has a lot to do with two things. It's of course the resting time of the cow. But it reflects also the management and the stress-free stockmanship of the staff. They're probably not trained very well. There's a lot of staff issues involved as well. But there's a direct relation to resting and happy calves. The other thing is that cows need exercise. So why do they need exercise? What do you think? Give me a few good reasons for exercise. Well, actually, interesting research from Marketing University was showing that cows with a bit over fat, 3.75 condition score or 4, they were doing amazingly well with exercise. They put them in a treadmill and when they were walking, they were more healthy and calving easier because of the exercise and burning ketones so they were having a better appetite. So this issue of the inflammation and the levels of ketones, there's no appetite around calving. Fat heifers, they have difficulties with calving and they don't eat right after calving. So how can we improve the appetite? Well, I always get a better appetite when I can go outside and having a little walk through the woods, I come back, I have a better appetite than when I stay inside. So a simple thing, a walk-out zone for cows is a winner. And one little tip, you have to do two doors here. One, two, because otherwise one cow can stop the whole traffic. And that's another big thing. Cows need to have the freedom to move around. Then I show you two pictures, this one and the next one. What is the best calving area? This one or this? So we're going to practice now and we're going to talk about a stress-free calving line because that is lacking on many dairies. In my poll on 50 well-managed Dutch farms, it was 50% having some kind of of this stress-free calving line. But if you look at this one, it's Ari, Ari van Rambshorst in Zeewolde. A really nice farmer who was designing this stress-free calving line together with me 15 years ago. And now he doubled it. Five years ago, he doubled it. He's also the first barn in the world with a senior barn where he gives extra luxury and extra big-sized beds for his older cows to make sure they can stay in other lactation. And his two cows with 10,000 kilo fat and protein, 15 and 16 lactations, they always stay in this area of the barn. But you need roughly 30%, 10% space for if you have 100 cows, you need 100 square meters of straw to have an area like this. What is lacking here if you compare these two? Well, it's very simple. It has to be dry and soft and clean. So enough straw every day, but it has to be dry. And here you see a lot of walls. So two things against walls, three things. It blocks the ventilation. The cows can't see each other and you can't see the cows. So it's a big mistake to make walls. The other big issue that people don't think about when they build barns is that you need free access to the feeding table. So no walls, no barrier between the straw and the feeding place. So keep this open. And if you need it for management, make it an electric wire or just a falling stick that you can open right after that you need it because you only need it once a week or once a day. It depends on your management system. You need to throw in straw every day. And that's the question. What is important in a stress-free calving line? You might have it. Some people have it, but they don't use it because they think the straw is too expensive. Well, if you fill the batch with straw, the cubicles is 10 cents. If you fill the area here, it's 10 kilos. It's 100 cents. So it's $1 or 10 cents. It's the difference between a cubicle house and a straw pack per cow per day. But still, you need this because it saves you a lot. Because if cows don't get sick, you have amazing results and you can keep them longer. So looking at the success factors of a stress-free calving line, 10 kilos straw per cow per day. 10 squared meter per cow needed. Fly control. Fans. Open to the feed. That means no barriers. Walk out for the cows for exercise. And rubber on the floor. And that's a big one. What I said about the 50% subclinical or laminitis. The 50% laminitis. That's blood in the soul. That can be solved if you have this critical period with rubber. That means before and after calving. Soft rubber with good grip. In this area here where the cows can stand on while they're eating for six hours per day. And then they can rest in the straw. And then the hooves are also safe. So if you look at this one, it's a really nice barn. What could be done better? There's always things you can do better. But this is almost perfect, I would say. And this is like a 300 cow dairy with 300 square meters of straw. There's three groups of 10. This is the fresh cow pen. After calving, they come here. They can walk to the robot and back by themselves. Amazing short milking time. Three times six minutes a day. And these are two stable calving groups. So you want them to be not mixing cows all the time. So the last 10 days, they can be here in this calving pen and being quietly with their friends. And this one is probably a cow calving now. And she's probably a little bit early. She maybe had twins or whatever. But normally they calve in this pen. And they come in here 21 days before calving. Last 10 days in here. And then they calve and they stay another 10 days in here. And this is what I mean top management. If you look at it, there's still five things you can improve. This wool can come out. You can feed a little bit more. This should be more open for more light. And I really like that cross ventilation. Because the cooling of the cow is a big thing. We saw the videos from Florida. But it's the same thing in the Netherlands where we have like in the six months that we have like serious heat stress in the Netherlands. Almost three months every afternoon at four o'clock. It's too warm in the barn. Another one. Fresh air. This is a system from a tube ventilation system. We have been pushing quite a lot. But I think I like fans even better. But they both can work. The tubes are normally used for baby calves. But this is also interesting because this is Austria where it's quite cold in the winter. Minus 20, minus 30. And that's where you see they have very good open screens. So they can open it. But even in the winter they can put fresh air in to keep it dry. And they are not 100% successful as you can see here. It's a little bit dirty and wet. And two cows are standing. Why are they not resting? And why do you have the dirty tail here? So you see there's always things to improve. But you have to make it so easy that you can really drive in with your tractor every day to drop that straw really easy. So we have a lot of things done in barn design. Cow signals approach. How to build the ideal barn. And this is one example of it. Fully open. A good drinking place. And also the rubber is still missing on the floor here. Now the last point, and not the least, is the cuddle box. Give me five reasons why we need a cuddle box. Five reasons. Have a close look. This is a cuddle box. Okay. I'll explain you the system very shortly. A cow should lick the baby. Whenever she calves, you pull the baby out. You put her in front of the cow in a safe place where you put a bucket of fresh TMR or very good alfalfa hay on top of her. And the cow will start eating and licking the baby at the same time. Then you start milking her. So now the cow is eating and she's relaxed. And now the baby is also pampered by the mother. And she's licking the... She's being licked. And she's being dried up by the mother. And at that moment, the colostrum is ready. You pour it immediately in a four-liter bottle. And you give the four liters or two times two liters, whatever you find comfortable, to that baby. If you give it to the baby within a half an hour after calving, she will drink four liters. Even Jersey calves have been drinking four liters. You can't believe it. But this is a reflex that only lasts for a half an hour. So most people are too late. You really want to be there fast. And this is the most important thing on every dairy because it drops disease level with 50%. The cow signals cuddle box. Remember that name and just make one on your farm. You don't have to buy it. You can make it. It's just a box that you can clean easily where you put the baby safe, where you put... It can be a wheelbarrow. It can be the one in the video on the test farm in Boxmeer from Nutreco. So the cow signals cuddle box gives the mother a quick intake of feed and gives the baby calf the excellent best feed. And that's their own mother's colostrum within a half an hour. And one farmer in Finland said, I can't believe it. I do it for half a year now. I didn't use any antibiotics for half a year on his 300 cow robot farm. And he started his cuddle box system a half year ago. He said, I have five, six and seven liters from my heifers. A lot more milk than I used to have from my heifers. And top quality bricks levels. 25 and more. It's amazing. He showed me the statistics. And he said, I can't believe how good this box works. This cuddle box principle. It's amazing. Everybody should do it tomorrow. So this is my big take home message, guys. Stay home message. Do whatever you can do to make the cows happy. And these are five tips. In the video you have the same five tips and one more. A soft deep bed for every cow. And that's what cows deserve. But if you focus on the stress-free calving line, the period around calving, these are the steps that you have to do better than you do now. And you make more money and you make your cows happy. Happy cows, happy farmers and a happy planet. Thank you very much. If you have any more questions, you can find me here. Telephone number and give me a call. We have a lot of information for you available and some great trainings. Thanks for watching. My name is Joop Driessen. Joop, thank you very much. Keep your questions coming in for you. We've got a few minutes now to put them to him. Joop, thank you. First question, are five lactations per cow a realistic target for every farm in Northwest Europe? Good question. I talked to a lot of my friends working as a vet in practice. And they say, you can't forget about it. 50% of farmers is never going to reach this because they don't have the capabilities. They don't have the drive. They don't have the power. And they don't have the material or the investment or the skills. And I mean, I think that's what we have to accept. But I want to work with the best 50% to make this happen. And then the other people will learn as well. So I think we can move 75% of farmers into the right direction. And what I said about doubling the lifetime, it took 200 years for people. I think we can do it in 10 years for cows. That would be nice. A big challenge. I have a question here from William. It's quite a long one, so please bear with me. Do you think it is realistic to have 85 centimetre eating space per cow? It would require major investments and new stables, at least here in Denmark. How do you reckon the situation is in the rest of the world? Is the need for investments in order to reach that goal the same between countries? Yeah, very good question. I think Denmark, Holland is pretty similar for investment levels. We see that Denmark and Holland actually has one euro per kilogram milk invested. That's the average. That's double the amount of the rest of Europe. So it's quite an interesting factor. You produce a million litres of milk, you have one million euros from the bank. So Holland and Denmark have already a high investment level, robotising expensive barns. And a very good question because, yes, it will pay back immediately. Because this is an economic calculation from British Columbia and Guelph that 85 centimetres per cow is necessary during the dry cow period. We're talking about the dry cow period. So that means three row barns that we used to have are a mistake for the dry cows, even for the first hundred day cows. Or what Anke said before, the 200 days in milk before you start breeding them. If there are breads, you can put them in a three row barn if they are pregnant. But the first hundred fifty days, you probably should have them in a two row system with one feeding place per cow. Ideally 60 centimetres, 65, 70 centimetres. 75 to 70 centimetres, that would be the minimum for every barn. In China, you can only build two row barns that every cow can eat by law. So we are just behind in Europe in our way of thinking. And there's an economic decision behind it. But it's already proven that you have to have more centimetres per cow. OK. Because we turn it around. All the farms that have five lactations have one feeding place per cow. There's very few farms that can manage it. They say, oh, we push the feed a bit off there. That's not the thing. Cow is a herd animal. They want to eat at the same time, all of them. If you can't offer that, you're losing it. OK. Thank you. Now, you say easy calving is very important. What is your view on using sex semen of beef breeds? That's difficult to say. In dairy cows that are considered to be in the lower end of the herd. Yeah, it's a very good thing. And I see 50% of the Dutch farms. 50% of the semen used in dairy farms in the Netherlands is already from beef semen. So it's a very smart thing to do. You have, on one hand, the smart, fast genetic improvement. Because you put female semen of heifers, female sex semen into heifers. And the other half of the herd can have, only the best cows get Holstein semen. The other ones get beef semen. Very smart move. Yeah, it makes efficient cows and also good meat. OK. Holger is asking, do you use cuddle box at night? Yeah, that's always a good question. On a family farm, there's nobody at night. On a farm with 1,000 cows, there's normally a night watch. So they can do the work day and night. And that's what happens on the largest farms in the world I work with. But you see that in a family farm, the best farms, one of my farms close to my home, it's close to the Cowsingles Training Center. He has 1% baby losses. That includes dead born and the first three months. So he's hardly losing any babies on a 300-cow dairy. And he always goes out in the middle of the night. But he said, if they calf before midnight, I still give them direct colostrum. And then 6 o'clock in the morning, after milking, the cow can be milked. So there's a six-hour lag that he doesn't do it. But he does it still in the evening, until 11 o'clock in the evening, roughly. He still does the milking of the cow directly at the calving. And that's quite amazing, because most farmers say, come on, I have another life. I will stop at 8 o'clock in the evening, and that's it. And then you miss maybe 30, 40% of the cows that calf at the night. It's not very bad if you have a nice, clean straw yard where the cow is calving. So it's not a bad thing. You can still do the same principle, use the cows in the cuddle box the next morning. Only the calf will be three, four, or five hours old. And she'll be probably jumping out, trying to jump out of your cuddle box, because she's already jumpy. But you still should give them the colostrum of the mother, and still do the same principle. Because then you are sure that she has enough colostrum. So you can still do it five hours later, no problem. Okay. Sorry, did you have a question, Jack? Well, what about separate heifer groups? How important do you believe that is? Well, I see 10% more milk, roughly, if people have the heifers separate. So if yes, if you can do that, depends on your farm size. On robot farms, we don't see it happening. Sometimes we do. Three robot barn, we have one group of 60 and one group of 120. So we have the small cows and the heifers in one group. The effect is that they typically give 10% more milk when they are separate from the cows. And that has a lot to do with competition, like the question from Denmark. If you have a three-row barn, it's even more beneficial to the heifers to be separate from the cows. Because in a three-row barn, that means that there's only 40 cm feed space per cow. That means that the heifers don't get enough chance to eat. They don't make it 12 times a day to the feeding table. And that's why they get sick. Okay. Question from Pavel. Do you think that the light, brackets, hours light per day, could influence the colostrum quality? Yeah. Now, I think, yes, it influences directly the milk quantity. So there's a direct impact of light on people and animals. We aim for 16 hours daylight per cow. And then a short winter of two months. So they don't need extra light in dry cow periods. So, yes, more light is more milk. The question is, if the colostrum quality is better, I can't tell you. But I think, in general, we like to have it. You saw the beautiful barn there with the stress-free calving line. When the cows are coming in that milking barn behind the robot in a straw yard, there we have more light system already. So the last 10 days before calving, they probably start eating a bit more. So the effect of light is probably giving also better quality colostrum if they have a very good feed intake until calving. So we see the drop of seven days. The drop is always there. But you saw the blue line, the drop, very minimum. And you saw the red line. So it's 2.5 kilos less or 7.5 kilos less at the day of calving. And that has a lot to do with everything. And then light is one of them. Light, air, feed water, light air, rest and space. All the six points of the cow singles diamond. Okay. We've got time for one more question. And I'll put it to you from Marco. In big farms, is it always necessary, the post-calving box, for the first three to four days? Is it not too stressful to then move them into the fresh group for the other 15 to 20 days? That's a very good question. And we are still researching it. One of the research that we did with the University of Wageningen and Utrecht was looking at, should we immediately bring them to the next group? And if we have the next group, the fresh cow group is a very good group, where we have one feeding place per cow of 85 centimeters and a nice soft deep bed, then it's probably okay to go there right away. But we typically, on most robot farms, they stay two or three days behind the robot to just recover, make sure they are eating, and then they go into the fresh cow group. So I would always do it like that, because I think we have to really have a good eye on the fresh cow group, but on the large dairies, maybe they can go straight into that 21 days group. That's not a big difference, I would say. Okay, super. Thank you so much. It's a pleasure. Thank you for inviting me. Thank you.