Triple Crown Feed Presents Pasture Management Tips
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MG6aKc0y7D0
Pets & Animals
 There are several ways that we can restrict grazing access in horses and ponies. One of the best ways is through the use of a grazing muzzle. Truffles is our model today. And this is a pony-sized grazing muzzle. You can see it has a portion that goes over the mouth, and then it has a halter built into it. There are lots of different types available on the market. Some of them attach to your existing halter. And they have different rates of intake based on the bottom. Something that I remind people is every year before you put your grazing muzzle on, make sure that the hole is still small. We've got lots of really clever horses and ponies that eat out that hole and make it bigger, and then they can get as much grass as they want. So this is a brand new one that I picked up at my local feed store, More Equine. And Truffles here is going to model it for us. The basket goes over the nose, and then the halter portion goes behind the ears. They're very adjustable. We want her to be able to reach the grass through the bottom hole. So the muzzle should be fairly close to her lips. Now Truffles can be turned out on pasture, and I won't be quite as worried about her gaining too much condition or potentially foundering. The best way to keep your horse off pasture during certain times of day or letting the horse on pasture for only a couple hours per day. Early morning is typically thought of as the safest time to put horses on pastures, as the pasture grasses have used up most of their carbohydrate stores overnight. Times to avoid putting horses on pasture would be in the evening, when carbohydrate stores are at their highest. While it sounds like a good idea to only allow a horse out on pasture for certain hours of the day, horses are really good at eating a lot in those hours. So keep in mind if your horse is the type who goes out and glues their nose to the ground and grazes continuously for the whole four hours that they're out, it may not be as helpful of a management technique as we think it is. What makes Melissa bad miserable disorder so that Cherouутins would have to go out and choke on those men? How many girls get ouais and better balling a lot. Things just made it more pink of the other people. What makes for possession of 확인 to do.