Destiny 2 Guide "The Farm Easter Egg Guide" Destiny 2 Easter Eggs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MGU6lDyTAf0
Gaming
 Hey everybody and welcome back to Split Screen. It's Alex here and today I'm going to be showing you guys how to get on top of the farm, Destiny's new social space, and a bunch of really cool easter eggs. So it's pretty simple. You just want to go on top of Tess Everest's little hut, jump on that roof, and then follow this wire all the way to here. Once you're on the wire, you just want to keep following it up. It's a bit slippery so it might take you a few tries, but then you just want to jump above this red box here. And this area is intended to be gotten up to because as you'll see there's people up here, there's a little thing where you can turn the lights on and off, so this is definitely somewhere where they intended for you to discover. And you'll see that's even more evident in a minute here when we go on top of the actual main farm. So you just want to go down these stairs and follow the path and that other cable here, you're going to jump on it and delicately follow it all the way to the other roof. And this other roof is also somewhere that was fully intended to be accessible because once you get on the roof, you get Sentry Rank x2. Now this is important. As well as making you glow when you move, Sentry Rank x2 makes you move faster and jump much higher. So after you've got that, you just walk along over here and down here there's something to investigate, just a little tidbit about the farm and its story. Nothing important, doesn't really give you anything. These things are tucked away everywhere. But afterwards, you want to head back to Tess's hut, jump on the roof again, and this time instead of following the cable, jump on the water mill. And just sort of walk at a reasonable pace on the water mill until your Sentry Rank x4, like it did just there for me. And once it multiplies to 4, you want to go exactly where I go. So once your Sentry Rank x4, you're gonna walk along over here until you see a bunch of people around a fire. Go up to the fire, and if you go up to the fire, if you don't have Sentry Rank x4, it'll say requires Sentry Rank x4. But since I do, you can just hold square to start a Sentinel Scout. And what the Sentinel Scout does is it makes you glow red, and it makes you jump extremely high and run extremely fast. But that's not the end of it, because it's on a timer. So you have to complete this obstacle course around, well not really obstacle course, but race if you will, around the farm. Where you need to look for these Pillars of Light, and just run through them. And once you've ran through all the Pillars of Light, the last one will be back at the fire after taking you full circle around the farm. You will glow a bright, bright blue, and you'll have these abilities permanently for your current stay at the farm. Once you leave orbit and come back, you will have to do this again if you want the abilities again. But you can do this at any time, and once you complete this obstacle course, the abilities won't be on a timer anymore. You can jump anywhere you want and have fun. I'm not sure if you lose them upon death, but in which case it would be simple. Just redo these steps, it's really not that long guys. If you enjoyed the video, please leave a like, and stay tuned to Splitscreen for more amazing Destiny 2 content. This has been Alex, and thank you very much for watching. Let's pause this while having fun of filming with details about the craze. We'll look at the process of rejecting using the ApplСian locker room. Let's see them! How are we today? ... ... ... Thank you. Thank you.