30 ESSENTIAL Organic Farming Techniques For Small Farms & Market Gardens
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mkEsLdNKlPM
Education
 Today we're looking at 30 organic farming techniques that pro-market gardeners use every day and that you can too. This is the ultimate market gardening trick. We're maximizing yields. We don't use this technique for any other crops. It's just for leaves. Number one, weeding while standing. Pro-market gardeners are not hand weeding on their knees. We're cultivating soil using these kind of tools. Stirrup hose and wheel hose. And we're cultivating the soil so that our plants are weed free effortlessly. Number two is direct seeding with push seeders. So we're not rolling seeds in our hands and we're doing it really fast and efficiently. We want to have optimal density and we have amazing seeders that are ergonically designed and very precise. Allow us to seed 100 times faster than by hand. Some of these seeders will allow us to do up to six rows at once which is crazy fast. Number three is marking your rows correctly. It's really important. We mark our rows so that when we're direct seeding or transplanting everything is equidistant. So that when we come back later on to cultivate everything is straight. And that our edges with the blades can really go narrow and close to the crops. Spacing your crops is really important and marking your rows is how we do it. All right, number four is getting roots really deep into the ground using a broad fork. This is like a handheld subsoiler that allows you to really work the soil without turning it over. Without using heavy machinery and allowing your roots of all these plants that you're growing to connect really deep down with the soil. Game changer. Number five is using compost to grow amazing crops and plenty of it. Because we're pumping so much vegetables out of the ground we need to replenish the soil and that's where compost, good compost comes into play. So we're not cheap with compost and it's worth every penny we're investing either building it or buying it. But we're not only using compost and we're not doing it blindly. We're also adding some organic fertilizers calcium, phosphorus, potassium at different stage of different plants. Because we're trying to nourish the plant and the soil both at once. Because we know that plants have different nutrient needs at different times, we time our fertility with different cycles of each plant. And that's how we get optimal plant health and optimal yields. Number seven is surface cultivation using the right tools. So we talked about using seeders, we talked about broad forking and putting a lot of compost. But you can't seed if your soil is like this. That's why you'll need to cultivate the top two inches using different tools that will create perfect tilts. Number eight is using cover crops to cover and protect your soil. But most importantly, how to terminate them in a no-till system. So for instance, this is one cover crop that got tarped. And you see how it's perfectly protecting the soil and then we'll be able to simply remove it and plant directly into really nice good soil. So number nine is using different mulches. So a cover crop can be a mulch, straw can be a mulch, a row cover can be a mulch. But the idea is to cover the ground so that we're keeping the humidity for the plants and we're also avoiding a lot of weeding and cultivation. So we have different systems at different times, but it's all made for one reason alone is to make sure that we're creating optimal growing conditions with mulches. And one of these mulch is number 10, which is using black silage tarp to do what we call occultation. So most of our bed prep here in the market garden is done by using these UV treated silage tarp that will eliminate what was growing underneath before. And that will germinate these dormant weed seeds because there's no light. Eventually they'll die off, which really helps to alleviate the weed pressure on the bed. But black silage tarp, what's called occultation, absence of light, using them to cover beds and field blocks is how we're able to create a no-till system and do the bed prep that we need to do on the farm. Number 11 is another clever idea is using the stale seed bed technique. So the game is to eliminate cultivation and weeding if it's possible. That's why certain mulches work well. But when we're direct seeding a lot of crops, it won't be practical to use mulches beforehand. So the technique is really easy. What we do is we prepare our beds and we then try to germinate as many weeds as possible for at least a few weeks. Then we will destroy these weeds either by using flame weeding, tarps or even shallow cultivation to eliminate as many weeds as possible before your crop gets into the ground. That's really the trick. Number 12 is taking stale seed bed even further with pre-emergence flame weeding, mostly in carrots. You'll prepare your beds like normal, you're popping your weeds and then you're seeding your carrots. The weeds have a waste start on those carrots and then just before your carrots are ready to emerge, you'll come with a flame weeder and destroy all the weeds that have popped before the carrots. This is the ultimate market gardening trick to handle carrots that don't have any weed pressure. Number 13 is using bio-intensive spacing patterns. This is really how we optimize the spacing of our crops. The goal is to get to leaves that touch one another to create a canopy without lowering your yield. So we're growing amazing beautiful plants that have really really nice leaf systems that touch one another. We're maximizing yields but we're also covering the soil making it a lot less susceptible to weed pressure and retaining the moisture on the ground for optimal plant growth. Number 14 is using the 30 inch bed system with 18 inch pathways. So 48 inch center to center beds. That's really optimal in so many ways. You can hop over the beds, you can harvest in the aisles reaching from art reach from one way to the other, having your containers and all the equipment that we use in market gardening is standardized for 30 inch bed size width. Optimal in so many ways and it's totally the way to go. Number 15 and geez this is an important one. Minimizing foot traffic by smarter farm design. So a lot of the downtime on a farm is people walking from fields to fields. By having field blocks that are standardized in width and in length and having them close to one another, by centralizing your farm having all of the washback area, the greenhouses in the middle of the farm, you'll greatly diminish all this downtime that otherwise is just wasted time that comes at a price tag. Speaking of farm design, if you're interested in learning more about exactly how to set up a farm, you can check the introduction course at TheMarketGardener.com. This course will show you an overview of everything you need to know ahead of time before starting your own farming journey. Learning techniques, but also showing you how to set up a farm optimally with good farm design. Check it out. Number 16 is using drip irrigation to save on water, but also to really optimize and fraction water delivery to the plants. So drip is really simple. It's one main line and then you have these drippers that allow you to percolate the water that's going down to the root systems. It saves so much water because it doesn't evapotranspirate. The wind is never a problem with drip, but also it allows you to water right over the plants where the water is needed and not in the pathway where the weeds are growing. It saves a lot of water, but it also targets the water exactly where you need it. The next step with drip is to fraction the amount of water that you're giving to different plants and a timer is a great way to do that. Number 17 is using greenhouses and different tunnels for all kinds of reasons. We're doing it for season extension to be planting way earlier in the spring. We're doing for season extension in the fall to harvest super late crops. We're using them in the summer using shade cloth for different all kinds of reasons. And we're using these greenhouses for the money makers on the farm. Tomatoes, peppers, eggplants, beans, even ginger. Greenhouse growing, it's where it's at. It would be foolish not to invest in them. Number 18 is the art of succession planting. So we had a crop, let's say this one here, huckarai turnips, it was harvested and then brought to market the same day. We're transplanting new crops into the same bed. And then that's called flipping the bed, putting another crop in the same area. And we can do that three, four, five, six times a year on one bed. That's really maximizing your space and your time on the farm. That's what market gardening is. Number 19 is taking this an extra step with crop planning. Crop planning is taking all the crops that are going to be grown, putting them into a plan telling you where, how and how much of each of these crops that you'll be planting. And planning also the successions so that you're understanding what's growing in space and time. Crop planning is the game changer that makes a good market gardener. And even for home gardeners, planning out your garden, understanding where things will go, in how much quantities and when they'll be harvest is the way to do it. There's an amazing crop planning software that we've developed at the Market Gardener Institute. Heirloom allows you to do this seamlessly. It's a game changer also in itself. Number 20 is timely seed starting. So in Market Gardening, we learn how to reverse engineer when we need our plants, how much time they'll be growing in each of these containers, and when do we need to start everything to harvest things and plant them on time. For example, some seeds will be started in February, other seeds will be started in March, some in June. We're seeding year round because we're following a calendar, a harvesting calendar. You can't just seed everything at once or at any time. We need to follow a plan. Number 21 is don't till new ground every year. Use a permanent bed system. It's really clever. You'll be making your beds, we raise them, you do it once and then you're just using the beds as if for all the years moving forward. Permanent bed system is what allows you to be growing without a tractor because you don't need to be hilling, shaping, moving soil every year all the time. It's also so good for your soil ecology because you're not using heavy earth moving machinery compacting the soil year after year. Permanent raised bed is really the way to go. Number 22, controlling pests without pesticides. So in Market Gardening, we have an array of different strategies from using insect nets to block out pests before they become a problem, to using beneficial insects that we introduce so that they can combat the pest problems in the first place and being really, really on par with our fertility. All of this greatly diminishes the pest pressure in the garden. Number 23 is having a really efficient wash back area. Cleaning and washing vegetables is a big part of the job. It's at least one day out of five that we do this. So having a space that is dedicated to it, cleverly designed with all the different systems will help you get to the next level. So be smart, invest in your wash back area design, make sure that everything is optimal and save so much, so much time. Number 24 is learning these special tricks for all the different crops that are out there. For example, when we plant leeks, we dibble a hole that's about 9 inch deep and we drop super long seedlings of leeks into these holes. There's barely 1 inch sticking out. We do this because we want to have big white blanch stem that is a killer at farmers market. We don't use this technique for any other crops. It's just for leeks. Another example is celeries. Did you know that the best way to keep harvesting celeries is just to cut a few branches every other weeks? And then you'll have heavy plants that give week after week, months after months, perhaps even up to a year of giving you amazing, amazing quality every week. Number 25, using the right tool for the right job. So in market gardening, we have all these different tools that allow us to do the work so much faster. So for example, this is a wire weeder and it has holes at the top. And this allows you to come and cultivate the soil over the drip tape. So you can go really close to the plant without removing your drips. This is just one example of how a specific tool can make the work so much faster. There's a ton of them out there, but this is a good one. Number 26 is tracing for many reasons. So different plants, you can leverage them by tracing them with different systems. Tomatoes, eggplants, peppers, beans, peas. It's all possible to grow them upward, utilizing space so much better. It also makes them so less susceptible to soil borne disease. It allows more airflow. It allows more light. It's really the way to go. Number 27, harvesting all of your greens in early morning. So what you want to do is avoid field heat. So we go really early and we start with all of our greens, you know, much before the days become hot. Everything's harvested. It's brought inside and it's cooled down in our wash packed area. In the same line of thought, you want to cool down pretty much all of your harvest before you bring it to market. That's what makes high, high quality produce. To harvest them early, you also need to harvest them rapidly. And that's where a lot of the tools that we use to harvest greens is a game changer in itself. 28 is proper curing some of your storage crops for longer shell life. That's also very important when we're talking about squash, when we're talking about potatoes, when we're talking about onions, when we're talking about garlic. You need to apply the right strategy to make sure that you have the longest shell life for all of these crops. Learning how to cure them is not complicated. It's just applying the right strategy and also harvesting at the right timing under the right circumstances. Easy to learn, makes a big difference. Number 29 is pruning for more yield. So we have all these different crops that at one point or another we come and we prune them. So tomatoes, I'll give you an example. We want to be growing our tomatoes on two heads, having two leaders that are traced. Eventually they'll be lowered and lean in our greenhouses. So while we do it, we will just remove the head. So I'm pinching the head off of the plant and that's what's going to happen. It's going to now be growing two heads and that's going to allow us to get more yield ultimately out of that plant. That's one example. We have other examples on peppers, cucumbers, eggplants. There's a lot of crops out there that will help. You'll help the yield and you'll help also the airflow and the overall health of the plant by pruning them either weekly, bi-monthly. Depends on the crop. And number 30, our last one, is never stop learning. It took me many, many, many years to be a really good organic grower and that's why I've been involved in teaching. I teach an online course, the Market Gardeners Masterclass, where I share with growers from all over the world all these growing strategies into a game plan that helps you become really efficient. Everything that you've seen in this short video is taught in detail in my online course. It's a masterclass. It's there for you to become a pro. There's so much to learn. I'm so excited to be sharing all of this with you. And if you want to see 30 tools that we use in the Market Gardeners, you can watch this video here. It's going to show you a lot of these tools. I hope you guys enjoyed this video. I sure did. I'm passionate about sharing my knowledge and there's a lot to learn. See you next time. Jay, I'm out.