EAT Special Guest Webinar Replay with Elizabeth Pearce founder of SymSoil
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mm-6Afsex2o
Entertainment
 the audio and the video we haven't started anything yet so we're going to start we have an amazing webinar replay for you so we have Elizabeth Pierce from soil sim so she's the founder of soil sim and she has a presentation for you we're going to get started here in a minute so we're loading up the video that we're going to play tonight and by the way I see a bunch of you out there so let us know how is everybody doing and if you can hear me and we're going to start the video in a second and this is your it this is your first time attending one of our webinars let us know your experience also you can follow us on Facebook YouTube you can find a lot more videos on our website eat community dot com just visit eat community dot com and there there is a lot of videos there are plenty of webinars teachers courses and generally information that you want to to start your business or whatever you're doing farming anything green green industry well business so eat community is there to help you so anyway we're going to get started and here is Elizabeth Pierce with her soil her presentation enjoy providing to farming researchers and content support your community and sell what they need and they will be helping people to fund them as making is a an asset applying to their goal in the calendar this, however they'll be ώвал separate offering a brand payment on your mobile well team and so watch the super great technology noise and the다� roads think really aman in a fair way that Amazon lives Jenn Espero has been recently discovered at home being in women and up then Egypt where you can see them okay I think we can officially start now so hey Elizabeth Ross that's How are you? Good good. I'm sorry. I'm having problems with my computer, but I know that Areeb has a copy of my slides, so you'll be able to share those with the audience. Yeah, I will be able to do that. And as you said, we start with your logo. I think that part is done and is recorded. So, took care of that. So, you cannot even share your screen, because it worked on the test webinar. So, I'm not sure why it's so I think we will just talk a bit right now. We'll do that. Great. Yeah. So, where you at in the world right now? Just tell us. Let's start with that. So, SimSoil is headquartered in Fairfield, which is the county seat for Solano County of California. That puts us midway between San Francisco and Sacramento and midway between Berkeley and UC Davis, two schools that have had a significant influence on agriculture. So, yeah, I was going through your website. By the way, I love your Instagram page. I will be showing that around while you guys will be talking. I think Wayne will be on soon. So, you made some new posts. You just did that quickly, like yesterday? Well, I knew you were going to be looking at it. So, I figured I would show some of the scenes from our manufacturing site where we basically farm microbes as well as pictures of our products. Yeah, looking good. Looking good. Rodeal Institute. I think we had someone from Rodeal, yeah. Rodeal Institute. Awesome. And I was delighted as I went through your website to see that you had had Dr. Elaine Ingham and you had shared with me that you thought that Wade was developing some kind of program with her and that made me very excited. I think the more people that know about her work, the faster we get to making the world a better place. And if I have any theme that you can take away, it's that I'd like to see her concepts spread widely across all forms of farming because I really would like to see people eat well. That is the goal and I think that's what our platform is about. Eat well. You know, eating well these days. So, and I think the current condition is telling us that how it happened. So, yeah, no, Elaine, I think Wayne is the right person to give you details on that because he had a call scheduled with them on Friday. But guys, guys, let's, this is Wayne. I am not going to be able to get on on my internet today. So that's, that's fine. I've actually got all the information about Elizabeth. And so, if you guys can just handle the slides, I'm going to do just a little bit of an interview with her at the front end here. She's going to give a presentation and then I'm going to just do a little bit more interviewing at the end. As just a little bit of preface based on what you guys were just discussing. I was on the phone with Elaine yesterday, on Friday, excuse me, and Elaine and Luke Luca. And Luke has been her business manager for a number of years. And I was on with her two board members also. And we are putting something together. I, unfortunately, it's not like this is one of those where if I told you about it, I'd have to kill you. But it is one where at this point, it's, it's got a little bit of a surprise factor associated with it, where when we bring it out, so I really can't talk in detail about it. And but it's going to be exciting. And it's going to involve a whole number of different things, including a number of people that you've heard speak previously on the platform. Just some very, very cool stuff. But anyway, Elaine and I are good friends. And Elaine's been on our platform, I think, five times or six times, Mark, how many, five or six? It looks like Mark's muted himself. But anyway, I'll have several. Yeah, it's been a few. And she actually has set the record. She's, she's broke the bank with us. We were limited on our go to webinar sessions live at 1000 people. And one of her sessions with us, we had about 1200 that were trying to get on the first 1000 were on, and the other 200 had to come on when somebody else left. And I think that particular session, and again, I wish Mark was on because he can verify this a lot better than me. I think we went six hours, she was supposed to go an hour. And she went five more hours longer, because there were that many questions. And she stayed on until basically everything was answered that people were having. It was so cool. So anyway, it's so cool to hear that you're connected there. Would you mind starting out by telling us just a little bit about your history? Because it's interesting. And it's not what everybody might think if they've studied a little bit from your website, and so on. So if you wouldn't mind giving us a little bit of that, it'd be awesome. Sure. So, um, my family comes from San Francisco, and I actually grew up in Santa Cruz. Um, I went to Berkeley as an undergraduate and ended up majoring in, uh, economic history. I had an interest in finance, and upon graduation, started working for a brokerage firm and then moved to the money management industries. So I spent 25 years as a portfolio manager, a director of research, or an analyst following a large industries that had many moving pieces. And I'm very comfortable with complexity. Uh, the high point of my career was running a mutual fund for the Highmark family of mutual funds. I ran it for three years and, uh, earned my, my four stars from Morningstars. I'm a chartered, uh, financial analyst. I have an MBA from Berkeley and, um, the bank decided to restructure. And so I jumped to Northern Trust. And at Northern Trust, I was, um, dealing with people who had, um, successful individuals and wealthy families. Much of the wealth was tied to land in Sonoma, uh, Napa and Sacramento. I actually had seven clients who had vineyards and Northern is a great company. I have been in my own personal estate plan, but relative to working in small caps, the work was, was not as interesting as it had been. And I was frustrated. They decided to reorg. And I thought, wahoo, I get to do what I really want to do, which is work with small companies with an impact. And for the next 10 years, I bounced around, or I should say seven years, bounced around with consulting with a number of different companies. And it was in that context that I met Dr. Ingham, Dr. E and, um, thought, wow, she's really got something here. She's got an interesting concept. But the way she teaches it assumes that you're going to be an independent, uh, sole proprietor or a, with a small company, you're going to find clients, you're going to make compost, you're going to manage those clients and solve their problem and run your business and do your marketing. And that's more than most normal humans can do. And I thought, you know, wouldn't it be great if all these people that she trained could spend more time as consultants solving problems and knew that they had a supply of high quality compost that met her specifications to help their clients, to help build their business and help their clients, um, in more effectively. Because right now, you think about the people who go through her program, the lowest value work they do is the actual physical labor of making the compost. The challenge is that her methodology, you could think of it as, um, bench level in that it's really built around small batches and skilled craftsmen. And the goal was to help those guys, if they, if that's what they want to do, great, let them come to work for us, be a supplier to us of the biology. And then let us farm that indigenous, um, the indigenous microbes, they're regionally specific, let us farm those to create larger quantities and create product with more consistent quality, but with, which hits her specs. That, that really was the origin of the business. Just with my business background, I didn't think that her concepts would reach the mainstream without, and, and you've got the quote up right now. The thing that grabbed my attention was, okay, she has interesting concepts. There's demand for the product. There's reasonable margins to be made. But then I learned that there, that we are losing soil globally at the rate of about, um, three soccer fields per second. And the FAO says there, said, in 2017, there's 60 years of food in humanity's future. And everything I've seen since then suggests that they've been overly optimistic. So, um, I'm a little confused. No, that was great. But to be honest, I'm on your website right now. And I've done a little bit of additional research. I didn't ask Elaine at all when we talked Friday, because we were in somewhat of a rush, um, about your business. And, and so I, I didn't have the benefit of learning a little more from her. So SimSoil, and you also have a partner, which I'd love to have you tell me a little bit more about also. Um, but, um, I'm still a little confused how if, if, if I'm a graduate of, of her academy essentially, how, and I'm in, I'm in Argentina, how would I use SimSoil? You would not. You would not. Okay. Um, you would need to be somewhere that was fairly close to where we had production. And you would then, let's, let's say you were in Denver. And we had a production facility nearby. Then you would be able to buy our material and use it to solve your customer problems. What we've done is we have found a way to mass produce to hit her specifications. So think of it this way. If she has the prescription drug that's going to help solve the world's soil health problems, which I believe she does, we have the generic drug that can make, make this more widely available, but it's still based on regionally specific wild caught local microbes. Okay. So it's going to have to be your last statement was the real key. It's going to have to be in a place where you've already done something to capture those local microbes because a microbe here in Northern Colorado is not going to be useful in Kansas, different in many, many ways or in Santa Cruz. Right. So, so, so, so, so for example, we're talking to somebody about the possibility of putting in a hub in the Holyoke area. So that's Northeastern Colorado. And actually that doesn't look that different from Western Kansas. Iowa. If young adult through the whole career and in the investment world that Convinced you that this was important was it Literally meeting Elaine are there or was there other things as you look back? Was there other were there other people were there other experiences? That that influenced you well first off understand that I'm a fifth generation San Franciscan so in the 1950s one out of five Californians made their living from Agriculture directly or indirectly today. It's about one out of 25 but because of my family history I'm very aware of how important Agriculture is to the state so there's a bias there already In the investment world for the last couple of centuries there has been this thesis that if you have extremely large wealth and you want to protect it across Generations across revolutions across all the different kinds of economic environments That your family might encounter You want to put it in farmland So truly where this where I started thinking about this area as Interesting from a business perspective started in 2005 Let's call it I was I was marketing to Sonoma Napa Sacramento Sacramento Central Valley Thinking about agriculture in general and thinking about this thesis that Well Well Large family wealth which is what what northern really deals with needs to Have a portion of it in something that protects it across all these different kinds of economic environments and forest land is historically where it's been and You see I I had when I was running my small cap on an investment in a case steel which New course steel has a process whereby they take cars use cars and Runs them to an arc welder and out drops Iron bits bits iron and steel that's useful But cannot go back into cars because the quality is not high enough So that most of that steel ends up in construction Well, where does forestry products go goes into construction and it goes into paper and you start thinking about You know 2005 we still thought we'd have less paper over time. So Forestry didn't seem like a strong thesis as it had been for centuries and I began to think about farmland because everywhere in the world we have that that farming is possible we have already brought farming to it and as you think about The developing world and the world looked very different in 2005 than it does today But as people get higher and higher incomes Which was the trend in China and India and other countries that were developing? They eat more proteins and so One pound of chicken requires six pounds of grain one pound of beef requires 10 pounds of grain And it seemed to me there would be more and more pressure on food and I started thinking about Farmland as an investment thesis as an alternative to um To forest land and I still think that that's valid that over time when the best over over long periods of time one of the best performing asset classes is going to be farmland So in that context I started thinking about soil and how do you make soil farmland more productive That makes total sense. That's great um Let me just ask you a couple more questions and then I think you'll want you to go ahead and do your Presentation that you have and I don't know whether it's going to be mark or a read that help you with the slides or whether you're going to go with them because I don't know if you've solved your internet situation We've got a double whammy going on here everybody By the way mark you're going to have to help us with questions Anytime they come in and please everybody ask ask some questions here as we move along um My my couple mark do you have anything yet that is we should throw in Yeah, we do have a couple of questions already do you want me to read those out now or well If they're probably related to let's let her do our presentation first, but everybody keep throwing those questions in And and I'm sure mark you can kind of you can judge whether they'll be relevant after right after or After maybe she and I talk a little bit more But thank you everybody for throwing in questions. Thank you for being patient with the technical difficulties that we're having um two two last questions for you about About sort of so they can people can get to know you a little bit better um As you were in the investment world and you're working with these high net worth folks and that and then specifically even with Those somehow already involved in agriculture um And and from that period till today Do you believe that? High net worth individuals in general really even care Or do they just know that they get their food and? They really haven't ever had any problems with it yet And they and why should they really care because they're going to be able to get their food They're wealthy even if even less fortunate people can't they're still going to be able to get the food they need They want Ah, that's that's a really great question There are people who are affluent who are very concerned about climate change and their focus is is Carbon sequestration so they're very supportive from the perspective that soil-based climate climate i'm sorry soil-based Carbon sequestration is the most efficient way to go they are also Generally well educated and very attuned to the fact that California is in a drought has been a drought will be in the drought in the future But this is much more widespread than just california this this is happening in many parts of the country I I don't know the degree to which they're thinking about it in terms of like social justice But I am very personally aware that Shopping and farmers markets and buying organic food is a function of both having time and having disposable income and I Personally would like to see everything in my local safe way or bargain grocery or Smart and final that have been grown with products that are based on regenerative agriculture I think that They shouldn't be just for people who have the disposable income To pay a lot more yes, it'd be great if everybody was growing their their own food and had their own gardens But for a mother with a single woman with a couple of children That's not realistic for somebody who Is is squeezing as much as they can out of every paycheck? That's not realistic and I'd like to make it easy for them to eat well Super Well, let's do this. Why don't you why don't we see about getting your presentation or again? I asked it earlier mark or mark or are you going to do the slides or is elizabeth? I do have a copy of the slides, but elizabeth do you want to share screen or you want me to play? Don't you send me the share screen? Yes, and here you go Perfect perfect so here's our logo we are all about microbes for the soil and Just like dr. Ingham we are focused on the complete soil microbiome um And i'm speaking to a fairly sophisticated audience the people who are part of the eat community So i'm just going to buzz through the science really quickly. I thought i'd start by telling you about The company's products then run through the science quickly and then some of the other materials So basically as as you know healthy soil has 20 000 to 30 000 microbes in it and what we what Dr. E calls soil food web or biocomplete We like to use the term robust. I think it's very important that the regenerative ag movement develop a vocabulary that clearly distinguishes this product from commodity compost which is a is a a product that's made by bacteria and bacterial decomposition and has no complexity sometimes it's sterile sometimes it has two species of bacteria but typically one has come to dominate and we also need to make it very distinguished for the purposes of regulators and measurement and grant writing from um ag biologics which when i started this business uh uh in 2017 was a billion dollar industry it's now an 8.3 billion dollar industry so it's growing rapidly but it robust compost with the multiple types of life with the thousands of species is just a completely different thing and we need the vocabulary So that people recognize it as something different so we're So we're putting out and promoting the definition of robust compost as having at least seven types of life and uh uh DNA analysis that demonstrates it has in excess of one thousand species um But i wanted to make this a hurdle that anyone who was in the process of manufacturing soil food web or similar kinds of products could could could use that definition and prove that their product was was of that caliber easily Again i'm talking to a very sophisticated audience who understands the importance of working with soil microbiome These are just typical pictures that i have pulled from the internet This happens to be one of dr ingham's projects i believe it was in lucerne um ranch land treated and untreated This was a an interesting picture on Labeled as the rodale institute turf trials This was never published and i'm not sure exactly why but i'm delighted that i have a picture that can demonstrate this I often use the picture on the other side that shows the different types of different root growth But Just With the comment that we are helping plants get their nutrients the way that nature intended you know Feeding plants and again, I know you all know this so i'm sorry to cover old ground but feeding plants Chemical fertilizers is like feeding your child sugar lots of sugar and only sugar sure they're hyper and they're alive But they're not healthy and that's essentially what we've done to plants sim soil has three main products We have the robust compost the rc this is based on dr ingham's soil food web and we attempt to hit those Those specifications we have a product that we call Fungal infused biochar it it was developed by us independently of knowing that david johnson existed It's very different from what he calls fungal infused biochar our product is Conditioned for immediate use because most of you know that if you get raw biochar You have to activate it or condition it So that it doesn't starve the plants during that period when it's becoming coated with the biofilm we add to it minerals we add to it fungal food We add to it the fungal spores and we add to it enough of the rc So that it has the biology that will kick off the spores Once it's in the ground it very quickly We can move soil to a fungal dominant state and um And we can mass produce it whereas dr. Johnson's work just like dr. Ingham's is all small batch He achieves with his johnson's sue beam technology Fabulous fungal the bacteria ratios But they're not sustainable for mainstream or I shouldn't say sustainable. They're not Not available to mainstream farming and then our most popular product is actually the b50 it Is a 50 50 blend of the compost and the fungal infused biochar this product Is used by the grapevine Growers the wine grape growers and by the canvas growers about one cup per pot for the canvas growers or About a shovel full or a quarter of a cubic foot per vine as they put their clones in the ground A lot of people want to know what it's going to cost the farmers so The robust compost we recommend it be converted into a compost extract we happen to be fans of the got 250 machine It can convert one cubic yard into over 6 000 gallons so um, that is the most cost effective Way to distribute across large acreage the fungal infused biochar is more expensive You do need more of it It needs to be thought of as a capital investment, which is a surprisingly hard concept for farmers to get Because they're used to thinking about their costs on a um On an annual basis and then the v50 it depends on how much you use If you're using a shovel full per grapevine it's five dollars and fifty cents if you're using a cup full per pot of Potted plant where you're putting your clone in it's 70 cents so these products We believe are reasonably priced for the market and not terribly expensive For those people who are interested in talking about the carbon sequestration effects um The rodale institute has done some work with A manure based but we believe biocomplete um compost and they were able to demonstrate that they could sequester two and a half tons of co2 per year The research done by dr. David johnson says that his material can sequester 10.2 metric tons per hectare As i've tried to convert that i think that turns into 16 co2 E units per acre Per year he actually 46 acres of 46 Tons metric tons per hectare over a four and a half year period that's where the 10.2 number comes from so uh We are looking for funding so we can run some trials and see what we can do but The 50 50 will be somewhere in the midpoint between those two The challenge with the soil food web As i'm sure your audience really can appreciate is the complexity which Makes it very difficult to explain this is from the uh frontiers of microbiology an academic paper that was published about three years ago That was talking about the soil microbiome this is how they explain the soil food web the image labeled a And then they had to explain it further with the second image Level of the image labeled b It's obviously quite complex This is one of my favorite ways of showing it because it breaks out the different levels of consumers But if you don't mind i would like to run through this in about a minute and a half I know your audience already knows it But just in case anybody watches this video who doesn't I know your audience is going to be a little bit more about the soil In nature plants combine sunlight and Carbon dioxide into photosynthesis Christine johnson talks about it in phases if you think about Water you have three phases you have Steam you've got water and then you've got ice Carbon has the same kind of thing in the air And here you have the gaseous version and through photosynthesis it gets converted into a liquid and sugars and carbohydrates And then it goes into the ground where this process is going to convert it into solids and store it in the ground That's the solid state so The plants create photosynthesis In the form of sugars they extrude 40 to 70 percent depending upon the plant depending upon the cycle it's in etc Out through the roots and that Feeds the next the the the rhizosphere the next level of the soil food web the fungi and bacteria They're living right at the roots eating those sugars And in the course of their life they are absorbing these key Elements the nitrogen the potassium the phosphorus the npk that 150 years ago We they thought the process that we're describing as the soil food web was strictly chemical These are in turn are consumed by the next higher trophic level and the the largest um The largest component of that are the amoebas the amoebas the amoebas the i'm sorry the protozoas the amoebas the flagellates and the ciliates And when they consume bacteria or fungi They typically consume Three or four times as much Nitrogen as they actually need and they spit it back out in a plant available form The other part of the second trophic level is Sorry is the nematodes now they can be eating the bacteria They can be eating the fungi they can be eating the protozoa they can be eating each other They may be eaten by the fungi they're certainly eaten by the the final trophic level the the arthropods And these are the microscopic insects such as the soil mites that are crawling through They're creating little pockets of pockets of air and water And chewing up the the organic matter that's left behind by the leaves and the branches and so on Again, I know the people on this call understand this but but it's very hard to talk about sim soil without talking about the science because So many people don't get it. They're still trapped in that that mindset of 150 years ago of the the chemistry of it So basically what sim soil does is We have a patent pending on a process whereby we farm these different These different microbes and then we blend them with commodity compost as well as with biochar to mass produce This product and then we can tailor it according to what is needed. You can't Overstate the importance the soil microbiome It's been said that all of human life Exists because of what happens in the top six inches and the fact that it rains In one acre of healthy soil the soil microbiome has the same weight as two elephants and Humanity with all of our hubris about what we understand and that spirograph graph and so on It's estimated that less than less a little less than a third of The soil microbes are actually known and identified So basically Sorry to be redundant, but what we do is replicate the soil food web And then tailor the products specifically to the farms needs And that's where these soil food web consultants come in they're the interface to the farmer customer or to the community farms or however they position themselves Basically, this is just the overview of our farm. You know, it's got heavy equipment We do the regulatory tracking we handle distribution We sell in one cubic yard coats or in half cubic yard bags You'll see that you saw that our bags are breathable. That was one of the things we had to learn Basically, we're doing the farming of biology the materials management and working to scale labor This is just another schematic of what we're doing commodity compost a low value agriculture input comes in on the front And a finished product comes out on the back end that's full of this biology I talk about the fungi because it's something that Regulators can understand in fact, it's everything we're doing That that combines but the fungi is easy for people to understand if you're following us on instagram You'll see that in February when there was lots of fungi near where I live I started spending the month talking about the fungal component of the soil food web then we moved on to the protozoa this month we're doing the nematodes and next month we'll be doing the arthropods because there's Just like everything else a wide variety of them. They have a variety of different ways of interacting with their their compatriots if you will and um, we are are currently talking to investors about putting hubs in the variety of places these are all the places where we have existing letters of intent probably the next ones going in will be in call of other and um, I just sent a proposal off to the investors in Pennsylvania so We are committed to California But it it was my experience with investors that they wanted something that was close to them and Many of them in other parts of the country were not interested in funding the company as a California company So we've set our legal structure up very much the way a restaurant chain would fund a um a a restaurant chain would fund a region um, it's available to Tone credit investors people are welcome to call me about it But basically it's got a seven percent yield and then we pay the cash flow from the project and with that I will turn the screen back to you And I think that's great again I wasn't able to watch that because I'm not able to log in to go to webinar right now But I I've been studying your website and studying your linkedin page and doing a number of other searches here that I did before the webinar and also now um And so I I think the audience has got a lot better picture of what it is that you're doing And I do also So I At this moment in time if one of our audience would like to help Simsoil In some way Is it mainly a funding issue at this point? It sounds like you have all the projects you could possibly handle That are giving you letters of intent and so on But it sounds like funding is maybe your biggest need Funding is our biggest need right now Anywhere that we have um A letter of intent it's our hope to Let me rephrase that Anywhere where we have the funding we will have product in the market within 12 months And and assuming that we get through the regulatory hurdles pretty fast It could be as little as 120 days so um Please let us apply please let us know the indications of interest that is super helpful We're talking to investors we do have um Some material that we are sending out but our preference is to hold back on that So this is available to investors so that they can run their own demonstration We'll be setting up later this month a live feed from a greenhouse in southern colorado So that people can see in real time how the plants respond We hope to have a couple of these up within the next couple of months And we will have a link on our website so that people can see that And I've gone through your Press releases and It looks like That you've you've had some Interest and some success in the cannabis industry Has that been in indoor farming or In field-based farming situations? Both Both And and we have worked with hydroponic facilities that are using rockwool grow cubes That's not our preference but we get called in when they have problems with Cereum or powdery mildew or Other types of of you know Nematodes what whatever their particular problem is The truth is that We Sorry we start that slightly differently If you think about Wine grape farmers the difference between a ten dollar bottle and a hundred dollar bottle Is really the chemistry of the grapes and the skill of the winemaker But even more so the terroir And the same is true with cannabis in both cases And the other Farmers who are unique in that they're looking at their crop at the level of chemistry And so it's easier for them to see that if you change the chemistry You change what the plant I'm sorry if you change the biology you change the chemistry that the plant produces This is true for all farmers They call it flavor as opposed to terpenes or flavonoids or some of the other terms and the other farmers are not as Quick to think about it in terms of soil biology, but it's my belief that this is changing and Dr. Ingham's work is really a key to that Do you mind if I just go off on that topic on for just a couple of seconds? Yeah, no, go ahead. I was going to ask you about that in just a little bit, but go ahead Sure, well, you know, dr. Ingham wrote the original papers 40 years ago And one question that investors often come back with is why if she wrote these papers 40 years ago Why hasn't that caught on? Why does it appear to be catching on now? And and obviously There's a generational shift occurring where the Older farmers to who may be more set in their ways are Turning the farms over to younger people who may be more open and receptive and the cannabis legalization of cannabis has Accelerated that by bringing new participants and An interest in New and more effective ways of doing things all of those feed in in the same way that you could argue that The Prius Changed how people thought about cars and inevitably led to the rise of of the The Tesla but More importantly if you look at nobel prize winners who make really radical new discoveries It takes 40 years on average before those ideas reach the mainstream They call this the diffusion of innovation or the diffusion of Intellectual capital or the emergence of new ideas. It's actually a field of study now But by that measure we're right on track It's no surprise that dr. Ingham was writing her papers in the early 80s. That's that kicked this off and regenerative ag is now becoming On on the forefront of what young farmers are thinking about And and some of you some of what I know is on your heart Tell us about some some crops on a worldwide basis that really worry you if we don't do something about But I got involved because I got involved with this because I was involved with a startup that was working with with a major multinational in the banana industry and um I'm not sure how much I can say about that other than the cicatoka fungus and tropical race 4 are worrying the um major banana Banana companies and and it seems to me that there are pathogens Emerging all over the world that are attacking microbes and I'm sorry attacking microbes that are attacking plants and um The the banana guys are further along the path because they experienced this with the grow michael that Was the banana that our grandparents ate we don't see it anymore it was wiped out as a commercial crop and It was very difficult for them to find a new banana because bananas don't have seeds all bananas whether they call the plantain or a mini Are basically cavanaugh grown from clones So that that's one example, but you can go to the midwest and talk to people about uh corn tar or hay tar That's a relatively new fungi that is attacking their crops you can talk to the grapevine guys and they'll talk tell you about red blotch disease I mean every crop around the world has some new pathogen and I believe it's because We have eliminated the beneficial microbes that historically have outcompeted the the pathogens If a if a person is working with a soil situation that has been highly degraded by its previous use so uh an over grazed um a field that's been over grazed by livestock and and literally The soils have just been completely depleted uh a farm in the anywhere in the midwest that has been the practice of industrial ag with huge quantities of ammonia and And water poured on it and essentially all that the soil is now is not soil it's dirt And it's a it's a foundation for the the above ground portion of the plant and a a miniscule circumstance for its roots um How how long about will it take to rejuvenate soils in You know any of those kinds of circumstances once the right kind of soil web mentality and an action is placed so that a compost is placed on and so on is this a one-year process is it a 10-year process or is it a You know a really long 100-year process because I think sometimes people Don't understand whether soils are resilient or not Yeah, um I have a picture which I will post to Instagram shortly which Which shows Rye grass grown from seed in 119 days This was actually taken The picture was taken from one of Dr. Ingham's lectures It was an example from 2002 And the land was considered um almost So depleted that nothing could grow there and they used some of her with soil food web compost and some and one application of one application of compost tea And And the roots are as long as The man who is holding this this root this this plant up and they crop this down on a regular basis So That's what's possible As long as The water can get through and the biology can get through And then the roots can get through The challenge is in many cases in these farms you've got a zone of compressed soil that's been caused by the tillage And you may need to break that up And so that's why Our firm recommends Low tilling Our preference would be no tilling but sometimes you encounter soil that's been so badly damaged Or needs to be conditioned and that's where the fungal infused biochar that's where the v50 can be used very effectively to Change the character of the land dr. Ingham believes that With robust compost you can get the soil that has been completely deleted back to a healthy nature within one year comparable to what an organic farmer can spend 10 years working on when when I look at shows like movies like the greatest little farm I'm struck by the amount of work and effort that goes into restoring those soils that should be much Easier to do with and and it is with the right biology Reseded and put into place and that's that's how I think of the sims well products We're interested in helping farmers Receive these microbes the right microbes for the area that they're in So Well, that's exactly what I believe that you would be saying about it So mark let's go to some questions from the audience. We just have a few minutes left But we'll go I think a little longer if we need to with the questions because we were dominating this here So mark once you can read us some questions All right There's one from Catherine So she says are the microbes of collection specific to crops um And then she has another part um Or An existing soil sample report required to engineer uh the product to be like like specifically Mark the second question broke up so i'm going to have you repeat it but before you do that let me address the The first question this is a two-part answer First off the microbes are specific to The region because of the weather patterns because of the um The chemistry of the rocks that make up the soil um The crops are determined by that as well So it's the microbes that do well with those crops as well as the microbes that are Specific to those types of weather patterns and it really is true Slightly different valleys will have a slightly different blend there is some overlap if they're close to one another But the microbes on the other side of the rocky mountains are quite different from the ones in california The second question um elizabeth was Related to i think What you've already answered but and that is that if if you were In a specific location where you didn't think there'd been any application of of a sim soil solution or any of elaine's Procedures would would this with the farmer in that area And send you a soil sample for you to analyze? um Or if they were if they knew of a uh graduate of elaine's course uh process Could they send a soil sample to someone like that? Or does it does it not need a soil sample? Could you just could they just tell you where they were at? Definitely need a soil sample and Right now we are no longer set up for the lab we were for an extended period using Somebody who was a graduate of the soil food web institute. We hope to have somebody back on payroll soon And so I would say send it to whoever you know who's a local soil food web graduate I also strongly recommend the use of the microbiometer microbiometer is not as um As detailed account as seeing it through much the microscopy and it's not as easy to talk to Your customers if you're a soil food web consultant Um about the numbers without showing them the biology that gets them excited There's real value to the microscopy But if you're a farmer and you want a quick and dirty analysis of the soil biology And you want to do it on a regular basis or on multiple locations on your farm the microbiometer can very quickly Give you a fungal the bacteria ratio um And then you can use that same test to compare it to other um Other locations on the farm or across time Okay Just the fungal to bacteria ratio it's not the full soil food web Counts of the different you know amounts of different types of protozoas and the different types of Or the different types of nematodes and whether they're repeating nematodes or artificial nematodes So it's it's it's um It's a different animal But it's very cost effective. It's very fast and It's the computer version of it All right mark do you have some others I have another one before Mark's just getting ready to Read one How about your uh, and I I think I know the answer to this and I'm going to chuckle as I say it How about your soil your um your extension agent for Wherever you're at in the country Um We have Been in business for three and a half years and we have spent most of that time focused on developing this new technology people Investors have criticized us for not having spent enough time marketing they've um Criticized us for not running field trials It's very important to us and it's what part of what we hope to do in our next phase you know every Land grant university Or college in the country has an agricultural department And we very much want to tap into that Um if I had my brothers we'd start with chico and san luis obispo and the university of wisconsin and Cornell i always get cornell and columbia confused the one that's not new york city They all have cornell Yes cornell they all have great compost focused programs and We want to start working with them as soon as we can um So yes the the extension programs are a great place to go but It's at this point it's a bit hit or miss whether they're chemically oriented or organic oriented Depends on the location depends on the person you get Yeah, I I'm a lot more of a cynic about that than you are so I I bet 99 of soil extension agents in the united states Would not be the right people to talk about related to soil soil health They would uh They are bought and owned by cargill and monsanto and And all the other large industrial farming groups that That essentially pay their salaries so I'm chronically optimistic So I believe that the executives in Cargill and McDonald's and Kellogg's and All of the other large organizations They would like to be part of for gender to back They just can't figure out how to scale it. Let me give you one example So I was speaking to the head of One of the largest vineyard nurseries in california And when I showed them what we were doing he was like oh my god We will come out with a product that's in soil branded Because I took dr. E's classes in 2007 I know that this what this works I just can't figure out how to bring it in my professional life because it's not scalable There that I can't get my hand on enough material with a consistent enough quality To put this out as part of what my company is doing And if you can deliver that I will build a product line around it I think we're going to see more and more of that. It's not that these companies Don't I'm leaving monsanto and bayern aside for a moment It's not that these large agricultural companies don't believe that this works It's that they can't figure out how to use it Because you put glyphosate glycophosphate on on any soil and it kills it So I don't think monsanto is going to be too Too positive about it in the short term at least When that product a multi-billion dollar a year product for them. So Anyway, I'm sorry. I am a cynic about that Mark what else do you have question wise? Okay, so here's another question Do your products contribute to mitigation of soil contaminants like aluminum other than what happens naturally? No, and we've made that I mean We have made a conscious decision to not pursue soil remediation The opportunity with agriculture and changing conventional agriculture to biological farming is so large that it would be distracting to go in too many directions We already have criticism From some investors that were too easily distracted going from cannabis and and vineyards to let's say golf courses But In in the cochilla valley where palm springs is they use a hundred million gallons of water Per year it's very hard for me not to look at that and say we've got the solution We've got two different actions of mechanism Mechanisms of action that can reduce irrigation needs let's use them Let's start talking to golf courses Let's start talking to community farms because My passion is let's get better food into low-income neighborhoods And that may leave people with the impression we're distracted we're not We're just recognizing that as we scale and as we seek funding we want funding for multiple salespeople each of which will be tasked with going after a different type of group with the same science behind it Awesome okay I can go to the next question You would like So here's one is there a soil humidity level that must be maintained to achieve the positive benefit When we're manufacturing our product Most of our microbes prefer a humidity level that's between 45 and 50 percent and and on We're using a different testing methodology than dr. Ingham's We're using sensors that we have developed that allow us to have a more accurate read of that number Are those described in your website or Instagram pages or somewhere else? No that's proprietary Okay All right Any more Mark? Yeah, there's one more question This is from Craig And he says has there been any interest in the soil scene from the vertical farming industry? We've talked to people off and on We look forward to working with them We typically get those calls when they have some kind of pathogen problem But at this point At this point we have not actively sought that out I believe that in the long run That that is the future of food for most humans I personally believe that And I think most people who follow technology believe that All technologies that are really new Start niche and expensive and solving a specific problem for a specific group of people Over time They become much more widely adopted and much lower priced So when you think about indoor agriculture You think about 10 years ago The only people doing it were the cannabis growers And then it became the way that lettuce was grown in Dubai and Tokyo and baby vegetables And lost for restaurants in Las Vegas Today there are Hydroponic facilities and indoor green Every city in America But if you think about humanity and the growth of the human population And their desire to eat well and to eat more and better Indoor agriculture In places like the Gobi Desert Are inevitable Because It I'm sorry I'm on my soapbox now But Americans don't realize How truly blessed we are 32 percent of the land in America is farmland We have one quarter of the population that China has They've got the same land mass But Only about eight percent of their land is farmland And the rest of it is mountains and deserts So they've got solar They've got water Indoor ag is inevitable in much of the world And Simsoil long term hopes to be selling them the soil microbes from places like the Silicon Valley For their indoor agriculture to say hey We are here to provide you with The tools you need to make that food more nutritious More flavorful And that Right into vertical farming Whether it's Whether it's Whether they're spraying the roots Or Using Some Some medium It fits right into those grows They're using LEDs I mean there's a lot of components To indoor agriculture And simsoil would like to be there for all of them All right That was it for audience questions Okay All right Well thank you mark And elizabeth thank you for your patience We've gone over here Is there any Any last thoughts that you'd like to To make sure you impart to us and to our audience so that That they can come away with We would love to Hear from you We have been slow With shipping because we've been very short-handed Um Some of that is Only having the one location Some of that is COVID Some of that is Some of the funding challenges we've had during the last year It's gone much slower than We expected But we are rebounding coming back And Our goal is to help farmers Everywhere starting with the u.s. But then expanding throughout the world Awesome And How What's the best way for people to reach out and to get a hold of you if they have questions 833 simsoil or info at simsoil.com Both of which are on our website And our Instagram page Sounds good Mark any other questions because sometimes people will Get triggered to do more after they've heard several others Yeah let me check Oh While he's looking If you haven't looked at their website It's really very good everybody And so go to Simsoil.com It's really that simple And There's lots of There's blog articles There's podcast info There's press releases It's an excellent web page And lots of great information Mark you say you got another one I don't I don't see any other questions Okay I'm a little bit like you I'm going to end on this note I am Positive about the future as it relates to regenerative agriculture in general And You can't be doing regenerative agriculture Not improving soil quality But I really wish that we would get some big player that could make it on And then we could have a huge case study victory And I don't mean big necessarily by being numbers of acres It would be someone that's really high profile with a certain With whatever kind of crop it might be And you know It could be It could be Asparagus It could be lettuce It could be kale It could be Cannabis It could be It could be You know The wine industry But We really need something like that And so If you guys can help find some funding for groups like SimSoil That would be awesome And that's anybody in our audience that's listening and watching this Or if you've got some ideas of places and or industries that SimSoil could be used Please let us know And because that we need to see those victories Wayne thank you very much We hope to make some announcements shortly That include some household names That may help analyze exactly what you're thinking about Well awesome Well Elizabeth you've been great And I think we've Audience you've been great too Thank you for putting up with a little bit of our technical difficulties And not being able to see webcam from me And and uh You know Elizabeth but The slides and everything sounds like they went really well Reed thank you for your help Mark thank you Again audience thank you We've got more webinars coming up Again another one Next week from Let's see mark tell us tell us some a couple of those that are coming up in the near future Yeah On monday That's coming up Yeah And so a week from today and Tomorrow night I do my Regular weekly webinar that's very specific to environmental professionals network Um and anybody that's got interest in that you can come to that and we're going to be talking about projects Other things that we're doing there Um and then Next monday and And just keep coming keep coming back We're always having new ones Elizabeth thank you Throw in some ones everybody for applause if you will And um mark give us about 10 seconds here Elizabeth maybe say goodbye I'll say goodbye right now and then take us out Thank you thank you for having me I am delighted to be working with the community in this capacity and hope to work with you more in the future Well, we would love that Hey everybody, okay, so that was the end of our uh tonight's presentation hope you enjoyed this And we'll be having a bunch more Coming up in the future So see you next time on economic I You I You You You You You You You You You