What is Plant Breeding? - Selective Breeding Hybridisation and Genetic Engineering
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mokCTdgBcks
People & Blogs
 This plant is Barassica rapia. Now it might not seem like much but it's actually where our modern turnips come from. So how could we get our modern turnips which have quite large roots from this plant? Not only do we get a larger yield from modern turnips but it also probably tastes better and is more suited to the environment. So how do we take this plant and turn it into that? And that's exactly what we'll be talking about in this video. We'll be looking at plant breeding so more specifically we'll be talking about selective breeding hybridization and genetically modified organisms. My name is Teal Simmons and this is Agriculture Explained. In this video we'll be specifically looking at three different ways we can change our plants genotypes. So that the first one is being selective breeding, next one hybridization and then genetic engineering. So we'll be looking at all these different strategies, the positives and negatives for each and why we would consider using one over the other. So before we get into our different strategies it's important to understand why we would actually want to change our plants genomes. Well it all comes down to increasing the value we get from our plants. So what I mean by that we're basically wanting to increase either the quality that our plants bring us, the yield that they can make or make them more resistant to the environment and that's environmental adaptation. So firstly quality anything that the consumer demands. So us going to Woolies why would we want to pick a certain tomato over the other that is consumer demand. So we might want to choose one over the other because of flavor we might prefer this one because it's more flavorful or the shape anything like that that's the quality. So flavor, nutrients. Now if we can make a fruit or a plant more desirable to the consumer they will be willing to pay more for this. So as a farmer we would be able to increase I guess our profit margins and bring in more money. Next yield. Yield we can increase I guess what we can produce. So for example on wheat if we can make a bigger seed head we can increase the amount of wheat produced per hectare and then that's going to increase our supply increase our income. So we can make more money making money it's pretty much increasing our I guess profits and income at the end of the day and that's really why. Lastly we have environmental adaptation. So this is protecting or making our plants more resistant to the environmental factors. So heat if it's a really hot day we want plants that can survive those really hot days if we're in say Australia where it's it's quite hot most of the time we want plants that can survive in these areas so we're going to breed our plants to be able to survive in like drought conditions. Also disease if we can make our plants more tolerant to certain diseases we're going to allow them to I guess increase their yield and quality as we're not going to constrain them while having disease. So plant breeding boils down to increasing certain factors in our plants that make them more desirable. So quality yield or adaptation to environmental factors all of these will allow us to have more productive plants and then at the end of the day it will support our business by making more money. So before we get into our plant breeding I think it's really important that we just brush over some basic genetics. So firstly an organism has half of its genetic material from its father and then half from its mother. So as you can see here this is our say a parent organism represented in pink are the mother's chromosomes and then in blue are the fathers. When that organism wants to make some offspring it will produce either an egg or a sperm depending if it's a female or male. But what goes into that gamete is so they're called gametes what goes into that is half of its genetic material and what chromosome that goes into it is completely random and independent of the other chromosomes. So this one is going to be the mother's chromosome this one the father's and then this one's the father's. Now that is a completely random process and it will change for each gamete. That combines with another organisms gamete to produce an offspring. Now on each chromosome are genes. A gene is a characteristic that an organism will express. So each parent will contribute one allele which is a variation of that gene to the organism. So the mother contributed a tall allele and the father contributed a tall allele. So overall this organism will have a tall gene. However with the eye color gene the mother contributed blue eyes whereas the father contributed brown eyes. So what happens when we have two different alleles? Well basically the alleles will almost fight over each other to be expressed. So one allele will be more dominant over the other. Say in this example brown is. The offspring will show brown eyes. It's not all about our genes that we have that will tell us exactly what characteristics we'll show. But rather that it's our genotype which is all of our genetic makeup. So for this individual it will be tall tall. So it's the alleles that are expressed. So it's interaction with the genotype and the environment that will give rise to our phenotype. So the environment is abiotic and biotic factors. So non-living factors such as temperature, the climate, biotic disease, living things. So it's interaction between our environment and our genotype that give rise to our phenotype. So what we physically look like. Physical characteristics of the organism. So for example the height of an organism isn't purely expressed by the alleles it has. Say it has two really tall alleles. Now if that individual doesn't get enough nutrients. So nutrients is say one of our environmental factors. It won't be able to grow to its full capacity. So we could almost say that our genotype sets the bar sets the maximum limit that an organism to grow to or to live up to. And our environment allows a certain amount of that to be lived up to. So another example say you have a calf that has a parent which is really fast growing and another parent that's really fast growing. You'd expect that that calf to grow really fast. But say you got a disease while quite young. That could set it back and prevent it from living up to its really fast growing genotype. So where this comes into play with our plant breeding is that plants with genes that we really like and that we want to I guess breed for. So say a larger leaf on a lettuce plant. So we want to express that more and more within a plant. We're going to take plants that have say a allele for a large lettuce leaf. And we're going to pretty much try and breed that with another plant that has a large lettuce leaf. So that makes understanding this process really important because each parent needs to have contributed a large lettuce leaf gene. So understanding these three concepts are fundamental in order for us to understand plant breeding. So lastly the amount of a trait contributed by the genotype is termed heritability. Now this means that the environmental factors won't contribute to that factor as much. Now that we know a little bit about genetics we now need to know a little bit about reproduction in plants. So there's two ways that plants pretty much reproduce. The first one is cross pollination. Cross pollination is where plants will pollinate with other plants. So an example of this is corn or pumpkins. Now on these plants there are two separate flowers for the male part and the female part. So what will happen is that the pollen from the male flower will fertilize the female flower. So the second way that plants can reproduce is self pollination. Now self pollination is where plants will pollinate their own flowers. Now this is a form of inbreeding for plants and it's tricky for plant breeders to overcome. As plant breeders will want these self pollinating plants to cross pollinate. So what plant breeders will do is that they'll remove the anther from the male part of the flower. So that's the part that's containing the pollen. And then remove that so they get almost a female flower. And then so then they'll take the pollen and then pollinate other flowers so that we essentially get a cross pollination effect. So now that we've got all that background stuff out of the way let's get into our plant breeding. So one of our first techniques is selective breeding. So this is selecting plants with our desired characteristic and then breeding from those. So we increase the frequency of those characteristics. So to do this it's pretty much four simple steps. We select our plants that we want to breed from. Now these plants already have to have this desired trait. Next we're going to allow them to cross pollinate. Thirdly we're going to then select the plants with this desired trait from the offspring. We're going to let them grow and then we're going to repeat. What will happen over time is that each generation and each generation after that will increase their I guess that characteristic that we desire from them. So I've drawn up a quick diagram I guess to express this. This is our parent generation so the very first generation of plants that we start with. Now you may see that these guys have a bit of a green colour on them. But they're predominantly red. Now we want to breed this plant so that most of it is green. So what we're going to do we're going to allow these guys to cross pollinate and then we get our first cross generation or F1. So now if you remember back to the basic genetics. The genes that these guys have. Now some of them are going to have genes that express the green characteristic. And we want that green characteristic or the green gene to be more predominant in the next generation. So what we're going to do we're going to allow them to breed. But we're only going to take plants in our F1 generation that have more green characteristics. So we're going to get rid of these really red plants there. And they're going to breed from the green plants. So we're going to take these ones we're going to allow them to cross pollinate and get our F2. Now in the F2 they're even more green. So we're going to get rid of the lesser ones. And we're only going to breed from these really green ones. And we get F3 which is even more green. And then finally F4 which are mostly green. So if we do this over generations and generations like 10 to 15 years. We can almost change the plant completely. So this is the main idea of selective breeding. Where we're taking a plant with the desired characteristic. A group of them. Allowing them to cross pollinate. And then only selecting the ones that have more of this characteristic. So what are the negatives and positives of selective breeding? Well firstly one of the advantages of selective breeding. Is that we're going to get improved varieties. So as we said before we're going to improve quality. We're going to improve yield. And we're also going to improve environmental adaptation. So firstly we get improved varieties. And not only that we get improved varieties that we want. So we're going to be breeding for a specific trait that we want. And so that is one of the advantages. Next we get increased yield. So that comes with the improved varieties. And lastly selective breeding is one of the more natural ways of changing the genetics of our plants. When compared to hybridization and genetic engineering. We find that selective breeding is one of the more natural ways of changing genetics. Now it's mainly because we're not actually changing I guess anything about the plant. We're just controlling what plants breed with what. So in a way we're almost controlling evolution or breeding. And so in a way it's more natural. Now there's always disadvantages to everything. And so the disadvantages to selective breeding is that it can cause loss of genetics. Now if we're breeding for a certain genetic trait. We're going to be losing some. So for example if we're breeding for a really tall plant. We're going to we're not going to want genetics that breed for a short plant. So we're going to pretty much get rid of the short genetics. And increase the tall genetics. So what that means to further impact of agriculture and ecology. Might be that we are losing traits that we could potentially want. So say we may actually want a shorter plant for some operation. But by just not having that gene. It reduces our options of what we could potentially do in the future. Now it is possible to I guess almost selectively breed back to a variety. But it won't either I guess be the same. And depending on what genes you have it might be a different mutation. So it all depends. But essentially we're going to lose some genes. Next is that selective breeding takes a really long time. It might take tens of years to develop a new variety. So it won't happen tomorrow. And we've got to put a lot of time and investment into developing these new varieties. So that means that if we have a problem today. We can't rely on selective breeding to solve it tomorrow. And then we also get those associated costs and time with developing a new variety. Finally we've got a ethical I guess disadvantage. Is that are we actually acting as God? And I guess this is up to your own ethics. But some people say that yes we are by changing the genetic frequency. We are acting as God. But there is also the argument that well if God allowed for these I guess management strategies. Is it allowable for us to undertake them? So I guess it is up to your own ethical stance on these things. So finally we've got some examples of selective breeding. So rust resistant wheat. They've selectively bred a rust resistant gene for wheat. And lastly most of our vegetables and flowers are actually selectively bred already. So if you remember the intro to the video we had the wild turnip. Now how we go from that plant to turnip that we have today. Is all thanks to selective breeding. But you'll find that a lot of our plants and flowers that we have today. Are all selectively bred. So it is very hard to find a wild type plant that we can use. And sometimes they are not even viable in agriculture. So that's selective breeding. It is essentially just choosing genetics that we like in plants. And making sure we breed from them. And as a result we are going to get better plants. That are going to yield more. And then help our production pretty much. Our next plant breeding method is hybridization. So hybridization is quite simple. It is just the breeding of two inbred lines. Now as a result we are going to get a hybrid vigor offspring. So hybrid vigor meaning that we get characteristics from both parents. So to do this firstly we select our plant. So these plants have to have the desired trait already in them. Then we are going to allow them to self pollinate. For about 8 to 10 generations. Now this is important because it allows the lethal recessive genes to pair up. And then that plant will die. So in the end we are only going to have plants with pure lines. Now what this means is that the alleles on each gene. So remembering back to our genetics basic part. We are only going to have plants with alleles on the same genes that are the same. Which means so a tall gene with a tall gene. And brown eyes with brown eyes. So all of the alleles in that plant are going to be the same. So as you can see here. This is an example of two chromosomes. All the alleles are the same. And that is what we call a pure line. So we are going to now cross two inbred lines. Or I guess our pure lines. With the other to get this hybrid vigor. So back to the genetic part again. Remember how we get one chromosome from each parent. So we are going to get one chromosome from one plant. And then another from the other. So what will happen is that the best parts of one plant. Will be given to the offspring. And then the best parts of the other plant as well. So we get this jump for jumping forward a bit. But we are going to get a genotype. With a mix of both of the best characteristics. But also the worst. So I drew a diagram here. To really drive in the point of hybridization. Then you let the plants self pollinate. Or inbreed for eight to ten generations. So that's that. Now you'll notice that two of these are crossed off. This represents them dying. So they are going to get a lethal recessive gene. Causing them to die. Now for the program. This is good. Because it gets rid of these lethal genes. We don't want them in our. In our. I guess. End plant. Because that's a. That's a cost to the system. We don't really want that. We only want the beneficial genes. So we're going to get rid of these. Non-beneficiary genes. And then we get out to inbred lines. So an example. Is. So this plant. Is going to produce a really large leaf. But this plant is going to grow really quickly. So then when we cross these two lines together. We're going to get offspring. That firstly produce really large leaves. But then grow really quickly. So we get the. The benefits of both. In the offspring. And that's. I guess represented down here in the. Chromosomes. Where we have the chromosome of one. And the other. So it's important to know that. Both of these parents are homogeneous. Which means that. Both of the alleles on each gene. Are the same. So this down here. But each parent is. Different in its. Alleles from the other. And then when they cross over. They produce heterozygous. Offspring. Which will have. The combined benefit of both. Now this is a really important note. For hybrid species. Now because they are. Heterozygous. It means that. Any offspring that these guys will produce. Won't be the same. They'll be worse off. Than these guys. Now that's because. If we. Now try and. Cross. These genetics over. We're going to either. Recess back to. The parents. Or we're going to get. Crossing over. A curve. And it's going to make. Almost a. Genetically worse. Plant. Because of this. Every time. We want to grow. A crop of. These plants. We have to buy. The seeds. From. The growers. The ability. To develop. A hybrid vigor. From two. Separate lines. Method. So that allows us. To. Take two. Desire. Characteristics. From two. Separate. Plant lines. And then. This will allow. For an increase. In production. And then. Increased. Yield. Increased. Profits. Pretty much. For our business. But there are. Some catches. So first of all. We get. Some. Loss of genes. From. The. These varieties. To. To. Buy more. Seeds. When we want. To. Grow them. Again. And this can cause. Increase. In expenses. And. The likes. But then again. If we're. Increasing. Our production. Increasing. Our yields. And profits. Then. It's. Almost. Without. It. And again. We also get. That ethical. Concern. With. Hybridization. Are we playing. God. Is it. A. Moral. Is it. Morally. Okay. To be changing. Honestly. Genetics. Some examples. Of this. Corn. Wheat. Barley. So. Most of your. Most of your plants. That you can get. Commercially. Are. Hybrids. Because we get. This massive. Beneficiary. Hybrid. So. What is. Genetic. Engineering. Well. It's. Pretty. Simple. Idea. And. Essentially. That's. All it is. So. We need. To. Identify. A. Genes. In. This. Example. So. In. The. B. Worm. Which. Is. Used. To. Damage. All the. Cotton. Crops. And. So. They. Found. A. Bacteria. In. The. Bacteria. In. The. Bacteria. And. The. Cotton. Can. Produce. This. Insecticide. From. Our. Plants. Solves. Our. Insecticide. So. Firstly. We. Have. To. Identify. The. Gene. So. We. Need. To. Know. I. Guess. This. Is. A. Bit. To. To. To. To. To. To. To. To. If. If. To. The. To. To. To. A. To. To. To. To. To. To. 2. To. a number of different ways but a lot of the time they use viruses and then the virus will inject it into the DNA but all of these all of these processes are quite technical when you get into the specific details but in general terms this is almost all that they're doing so they take yeah so they take the the gene that has the insecticide from the bacteria so that the genes are you there so we're just taking the DNA from bacteria finding the specific gene that codes for the insecticide we're taking that we're multiplying it and then we're going to insert it into the cotton DNA even though we are changing the DNA of the cotton where we're not coding it so ourselves so we're not making up the genes ourselves from a lab we're not figuring out what gene would code for an insecticide we're taking the insecticide from bacteria itself which is already present in in the soil and we're just taking a small snippet of that and then we're putting it into another plant in terms of the impact of this new technology it has massive benefits to reducing insecticide use so since I think the introduction of beta cotton the use of insecticide for cotton production had reduced by 97% so that's a massive decrease and now if you're thinking about I guess the environmental impacts of that reducing your insecticide use by 97% is a massive reduction in insecticide use and that will that will really benefit your beneficiary insects so just by I guess inserting this gene we're supporting the population of your insects minus bull worm but that's um we don't want that anyways genetic engineering of plants can highly increase our production now we saw this with BT cotton by allowing the cotton to produce its own insecticide it prevents the bull worm from I guess attacking the plant now this allows us to almost passively control the pest we don't have to go spraying it and so we're going to increase the quality and quantity of our cotton also a advantage over some of the other plant breeding strategies even though this is not plant breeding but it's I guess all class in one of those methods is that it takes a much shorter time to develop these varieties even though we may be looking at a couple of years it's much faster than breeding plants over generations and then again we're going to increase our yield but also it may have significant impacts on the business financials so with BT cotton we're going to not be spending any more money or reduced amount of money on insecticides so that's going to significantly increase our profit margins which will improve I guess profit but there are some significant risks and disadvantages of when it comes to genetic engineering first of all ethics should we be playing with plant or animals genomes and DNA you can make your own mind up about that but also unknown consequences now this is probably the biggest one with the new technology we have to do with the the new technology we may not know to which extent this may affect us so BT cotton might be any bad example for unknown consequences mainly because we're not eating it ourselves it'll just go into the clothes that we wear and you know we're not going to I guess get sick from an insecticide or that the plant produces on cotton that we're going to wear but if you use say a gene that increases a certain hormone in a plant that increases growth and we eat that well what are the consequences of that on our health and is it going to have any negative consequences so they're the kind of consequences so they're the kind of consequences we have to be thinking about when it comes to implementing new technologies and definitely genetic engineering because the field of genetics is growing and we don't know everything about it the development of genetically modified organisms are pretty expensive and so we might not see a very good return in the first couple of years of development but after that the cost of development pretty much none as it's already developed now this is almost disadvantages across all different methods because all the I guess expenses of development are before the product is released so once the product is released you almost have very little costs in terms of development and it's all going into production but I guess that's a disadvantage for that in terms of some examples we got bull guard three so this is a beta cotton it's a newly developed beta cotton where we actually have three different genes that code for insecticides so the reason why they're using three is because they found that some of the bull worm was developing resistance to the single insecticides so if you have three different ones it's it's harder for the bull worm to develop resistance against one particular gene or the insecticide another example is we have roundup ready so canola or cotton different plants so this allows roundup to be applied to the plant and it actually won't affect the plant so it will kill all the weeds around it but it won't damage the plant finally another example is golden rice now golden rice is a pretty interesting one because it takes some genes from bacteria and dandelions to pretty much allow rice to produce a vitamin A and so what this will allow is for countries or regions which are highly vitamin A deficient to pretty much get a really good source of vitamin A in rice and so this has some really good implications for global health and so in terms of what method is best it really depends and we shouldn't really look at these methods as what one's best and what one's worst but really as a collective tool and things that we can use to develop new varieties but all of these methods improve the genetics of our plants so that we can increase production and even potentially improving the sustainability of these productions by improving say water efficiency or the efficiency of the production so we're not wasting as much and we're going to be I guess producing more from what we have so there we go that is how we take a plant like this and completely change it into something that's a bit more suited to our plant so remember we have three different types of ways we can change the genotype in our plants we have selective breeding where we're taking the genes that we really like or characteristics that we really like in our plants and then keeping that breeding from those plants so that we increase those characteristics we also have hybridization which is the crossing over of two inbred lines this will produce a hybrid vigor which is really quite beneficial to production as it contains both of the best characteristics from both the parents but as well as the worst and then finally we have our genetically modified organisms which we insert a gene into the genome which is from another organism and then get that plant to start producing different proteins and so that's the basics we have of the from both the parents but as well as the worst and then finally we have our genetically modified organisms which we insert a gene into the genome which is from another organism and then get that plant to start producing different proteins and so that's the basics of plant breeding I hope you learned a lot from this video if you did make sure to share it with someone and you know that we'd gain a lot also check out some of our other content we have other videos on plant production animal production and we even have a series on regenerative agriculture so check that out make sure to subscribe also on Facebook so check us out there thanks for watching my name is Till Simmons and this is Agriculture Explained