Cannabis Harvesting Tips for Maximum Potency
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MounFQRFNhk
Education
 Today, we are going to cover everything you need to know about harvesting cannabis plants to get the best yield and potency. From when to harvest to how to harvest, let's get into it. Hey, but before we do, today's video is brought to you by Real Grow Lab. If you want to connect with the best growers from all over the world, get tips and tricks on how to grow the dankest plants possible and not have to worry about the censorship we get from YouTube, Facebook, and Instagram. Go check out realgrowlab.com. Get all kinds of great grow talk Q&A. Plus, see all the stuff YouTube won't let me show you in these videos. Sign up and join our growing community over at realgrowlab.com or download the app at the Apple or Android app store. Now, let's get back to today's video. All right. Come on, Hi-C. You want to get into this? You want to add some little fact from fiction here? You want to separate it? Yeah. And this is one of the things I think growers don't pay enough attention to because they've gone through their whole growth cycle. But this is really huge, huge because you can mess everything up if you don't get this last part right. Yes. What are we doing? We're trying to grow these terpenes and cannabinoids if we just let them volatize off into the air. All right. So let's start with knowing when to harvest. Sure. Important thing. Yeah. We're lucky because now we've got all these breeders giving us packs with instructions and harvest times. Just typically, though, if we're talking to Indicas and Sativas, Indicas are known for having shorter flowering times, eight, nine, you know, seven, eight, nine weeks. The pure Sativas or Sativas in general go a little bit longer and go 10, 11, 12 weeks even, you know? Yeah. And that's one of the good things about growing from clone is you already know how long it's going to flower for. But you're saying now even the seeds, the breeders are kind of getting that down as well. Yeah. They have, it has a range definitely. And it's great when you get a pack of seeds and everyone else's flowers in 60 days and you got one that does 47. That's the fun part about seeds, you know? Okay. So besides just kind of having a guesstimate of how long it's going to take, if I'm just looking at my plants, I know there's some bro science to it that I used to get told, let me know what misconceptions. Yeah. The pistols, you know, and the pistols turn orange when they turn from white to orange, that's when it's ready. And that's kind of, you know, we can do better than that. Sure. That's telling you you're getting close to maturity, but that's not going to tell you when you want to really pick for maximum potency. That's just telling you you're getting late in the flowering. Okay. So what do I want to be looking for? Tricomes. You want to be looking for the color of the trichomes. All right. And what do I want the color of the trichomes to be? Well, first of all, what are the trichomes? Oh, sorry. The trichomes are what holds the terpenes and cannabinoids. So those little, if you look, you'll see there's like a little ball on top of a little white, crystal-y looking thing. Yeah. I'm trying to not say shaft. All right, man. Anyway, and that's what's filled with your cannabinoids and your terpenes. So if you break those by brushing up against it, then you're going to ruin all your, you know, volatize, release all your cannabinoids and terpenes into the air. The same thing can happen if you cook it, if it's 90 degrees or if you're drying it at 90 degrees, these things volatize off into the air. Okay. So I'm growing, I'm looking at my plant. It's in my tent. I see all these trichomes. What am I looking for? You are looking for at least white, milky white trichomes. Clear is how they start. You don't want to harvest when they're clear. You want to harvest when they're milky white, at least. That's going to have the right concentration of the terpenes and cannabinoids in there. Cannabinoids are like THC and CBD, terpenes or mercene and all that kind of stuff for flavor and medical effects. And I've seen before, sometimes they start to kind of brown or yellow. Yeah. Now that's the, typically if you ask an old timer or how I learned it was clear trichomes, no. When they get milky with a couple ambers in there, that means the ambers are, they died already. They're, they've expired. The milky ones are where you want to get. So usually by the time most of them are milky trichomes, there's a couple of amber ones and that tells you it did good. I will say though, that if you're harvesting for extracts, which a lot of people are squeezing this stuff, you want to harvest a little bit earlier. I've heard of people, definitely when they're milky, no amber at all. And I've heard people harvesting on the earlier side there. So just a heads up. And that is for what reason? Color. For the color. You don't want, they don't want those dark brown or dark tan extracts. They want that light color extract. And so if you get a bunch of tan amber trichomes in there, it's going to throw off the color. And there is something about effect too. They say that once the trichomes get milky and amber, and this, it might be bro science too, but it's a little bit more of a sedative effect. Ah, okay. Very well might be bro science. Let's talk equipment for harvesting. So besides a jeweler's loop to know when the trichomes are ready, what else are you going to need to have prepared when you're getting ready to harvest? I got to need some good scissors. That's for sure. And if you have friends come over, get three or four of these. I'd be rotating them a little bit of alcohol. I usually have a half a dozen of these when I'm having a trim party, keep them in a little jar of alcohol and take a paper towel, clean them up and then get to work. And these things work awesome. Fiskars. All right. What about gloves? Because I, every time I trim, I end up, my hands stink and they're sticky for like three days. Yeah. We have some gloves. They're just for profiling purposes. I'm just kidding. Yeah. You can absolutely wear gloves if you want. How are you going to get all the hand hash on you that nobody will smoke except for me? Yeah. I mean, you'll see the trichomes stick to your hands big time. If you're careful, my wife can trim and not get anything on her, you know, but yeah, definitely gloves you can use. Um, man, a trim bin or something like that. Something to collect all the buds in. I use a five gallon bucket. I take one five gallon bucket and just let the buds fall in there. I mean, I've got gallons and gallons of buds when I harvest. So, and then I'll take another, either a bowl or another five gallon buck and I'll just sit there and I'll trim over it. So I got my trim that falls in one. I've got my finished buds that fall in the other. Yeah. Let's step back. I'm just cutting my plant. Yes. What, what, what am I going to do at that point? You are taking, I like to take the whole plant out. If I can take it into the, out of the container, or if I can just cut the very bottom of it off. So I have this entire plant intact. I bring it into the other room outside the grow and I bring it and say, Hey guys, got another plant here. And we'll grab, usually what I'll try to do is grab the biggest stems. I can give everybody a section because I'm in Colorado where it is so dry. We're talking 30% humidity in this room right now. I'm doing everything I can to slow down this drying. There is a lot of moisture in that stem. All right. Yeah. So by leaving it on the stem, I am slowly releasing moisture into those buds. It is going to slow it down dramatically. So I like leaving it on as big of a hunk of the stem as possible. All right. And cutting off the leaves, which leaves should I be cutting off right away? And which one should I be allowing to stay on during the drying process? People cut off the water leaves, those big giant fan leaves, people cut them off. I will even leave them on sometimes because I am just trying to get as much moisture, keep as much moisture in that plant, slow it down as much as possible. So most people will cut the water leaves off. They talk about flavor or something like that. I'm not sold on it, but I leave as much plant material on as I can. You do have to worry about fungus and molds if you've got those super moist leaves laying on the buds. And that's why I do think a lot of people cut the giant leaves off there. And you mentioned living in Colorado and the humidity here is very low versus maybe living in Florida where you used to grow. Did you have a different practice at that environment? I would put them in like 18 inch branches. I cut them off that giant thick main stem and they would dry. I had a hard time. I would need a dehumidifier in those rooms. Okay. So dehumidifier, humidifier, these things you kind of want to go based off of your environment. And what are you looking for as far as humidity goes when you're drying? It's 60, 60 is the rule of thumb. 60% humidity, 60 degrees. I mean, that's, like I said, the rule of thumb. You can be a little bit above there. It's not going to hurt you. All right. And once I've got the leaves that I want off of there, once I've got the size of stems that I want, where am I going to be storing these? A cool, dry place or a place that's dark and that can get close enough to 60 degrees and 60% humidity. And why dark? Why does that matter? Light degrades trichomes. The light will degrade the cannabinoids and terpenes inside the trichomes. Gotcha. So while it's in that really volatile state, you want to keep those trichomes protected. Yep. Exactly. Exactly. And then putting them in, I have a little grow tent. I don't know if it's right out of view here. I bought a super cheap grow tent that's falling apart. I can't use it for growing. So I use it for drying. It's basically a closet system with a wrap. Speaking of that, I have seen people actually just convert one of their closets into an area to dry their trimming off of. Yep. Definitely. You got to worry about stink. When you're trimming, that is where it's going to smell the most, man, the strongest. So yeah, you definitely want to talk a little bit about preparing for that. Well, let me ask one question. Sure. We're big fans of the AC Infinity carbon filters because they do a good job of sucking the stink out of your grow. Right. Same thing. Should we be using that when we're curing? Absolutely. Carbon filter is the number one tool. If you have it, of course, use it. Bacon, number two. Bacon? No, I'm just kidding. Okay. You can stink up the house pretty good by baking some bacon. Okay. Yeah. Putting that nice and slow, man. Yeah. All your neighbors are like, he's cooking that skunk flavored bacon. That's good bacon over there. But those are just my tips for harvesting for the best yield and best quality possible. But what about you? Leave your best tip in the comments. And if you liked this video, please hit that like button, hit that subscribe button, share this with another grower you know, and check out the other couple of videos YouTube's recommended.