eon-nanb-fmx
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MPBDnAwXT_M
Entertainment
 including Monarch University, Australia, Brunel University, London, University of South Florida, USA, and Cotin University, Dubai. With a background in accounting, auditing, and marketing across the FMCG and oil and gas sector, Dr. Agir Ikaojo brings practical industry insight into academia. He has held key leadership roles at Cotin University, Malaysia, including head of the Department of Management, Marketing, and Digital Business from 2021 to 2023, and the Marketing Department 2017 to 2019. Currently, he lectured in corporate strategy and tourism and events management. He has also taught project management at the postgraduate level, a senior fellow of the UK Higher Education Academy, SFHTA, and a certified member of the Project Management Institution, United States of America. He is also affiliated with the Chartered Institute of Marketing, UK, and the Chartered Association of Business School. His consultancy portfolio includes serving as the lead trainer for SCOP graduate enhancement training, Sagarak, and a tourism consultant for the Greater Mary's Development Plan 2030. He has authored scholar articles, edited volumes, textbook on project management, and qualitative research. Dr. Agir Ikaojo has been recognized in several prestigious awards, including the World Educational Congress and Leadership Awards, and one of the prestigious excellence awards at Cotin University. He has delivered keynote speeches and presented at Global Forum at the Global Hospitality and Tourism Forum, Malaysia, UN World Tourism Day, Cotin Australia, and then the Asian Youth Sustainability Forum, 2024, and the FGG Symposium at Cotin Singapore, 2022 and 2024. Dr. Agir Ikaojo continues to shape the future of tourism, education, and sustainable business practices through research, teaching, and cross-collaborations across the continent. Ladies and gentlemen, put your hands together. A good welcome, Dr. Agir Ikaojo. Let's put our hands together. Let's put our hands together. Thank you so much, everyone. Thank you so much, David, for that. And finally, introducing our royal highness, Princess Aded... I hope I got your name correctly, ma'am. Oh, thank you. Because I don't want to make the same mistake. And please, I apologize, Madam Debbie, for that. Thank you so much. So let's listen to our bio. And as usual, I want to see your emojis. Our royal highness, Princess Muradeon Adedon Sholari, is a river-dorbal princess, pan-Africa royal veteran broadcast journalist, and royal cultural ambassador, with over 45 years of excellence in India, communications, and cultural diplomacy. A direct dissident of the Adedon Sholari, royal dynasty of Shagamu, Ogustate. Ma'am, I am from Shagamu. And it's so nice to have you here, ma'am. From Shagamu, Ogustate. In Ogustate, she holds the esteemed title, Bere. I hope I got that well, ma'am. Okay. Bere, fourth daughter of her royal highness. His royal highness, Prince Israel, Eretiola Adedon. As a pioneer in African media, Prince Muradeon began a career at just 17 with a Nigerian television authority, NTA, and has since built a remarkable legacy across the UK, Africa, and the diaspora. She is the founder of Arise Conversations, a global multimedia platform spotlighting changemakers, innovators, and unsung heroes, particularly women and youth. Her influence spans leadership roles, including operational director, media, and communication, GlobalWin, the founder and director of the new partner of the new partner of the American Association, Vice Chair and Royal Trustee Economic Emancipation Movement, ALMA, and Vice Chair Board Member, International Women's Peace Group, South Korea. Prince Muradeon is a passionate advocate for gender equity, youth mentorship, and African cultural pride. She used her voice on platforms to campaign against domestic abuse and promote innovation, heritage preservation, and trans-African development. And her career as 10 annual global accolades, including the Nigerian Century Award for Natural Excellence, Best Time Achievement Award, and the Lifetime Achievement Award at the International Cannabis Festival, a bridge between continent and cultures. Princess Muradeon continues to inspire through a visionary leadership, powerful storytelling and childless service to humanity. She lives to reign in the United Kingdom with a family and remit, a proud mother, grandmother, and cultural beacon for all the world. Can we please make welcome, Princess Muradeon, as they do in show, Larry, we can... Let's go, let's go. Thank you so much. Now we are diving into the business of the day. Can I see in the comment section the B of the day? We are diving straight up into the business of the day, which is our keynote speeches by our amazing and delectable speaker. Starting off with Dr. Samuel Adenika-Ojo. The topic is agritourism, a driver for socioeconomic emancipation in developing nations. I'm going to repeat that, and I would love if one or two of us can put that in the comment section. Agritourism, a driver for socioeconomic emancipation in developing nations. That is our keynote topic for the day, and our three speakers would have 10 minutes to discuss this with us before we move in to the panel session. So we are going to get started with Dr. Samuel Adenika-Ojo for his keynote speech on agritourism, a driver for socioeconomic emancipation in developing nations. Can we have you, sir? Please, let's present it together for him. Let's put that together. Let's put that together. Thank you, sir. Thank you. You have the skills, sir. Okay. Please, can you see my slides, please? Yes, we can. Yes, we can. Okay. Yes, we can. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. I will be sharing on this topic because our time is very short. Let me see. Come in. Oh. Can you control from your side? I want to go back to the slice. One is not showing here. No, we can't control it from here. We can only control it from the answer. Oh. Yeah. Okay. First, I want to use to. Just use the arrow key up and down. Let's see that. Yes. Okay. Okay. Let me try this one. Like, let me stop. Let me, let me, let me. Stop. I'll be sharing it. Thank you, sir. Okay. That's what I want to do now. Okay. Okay. Good. right and a professor Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you so much. Because of our time, I still try to share with you, but in case because of our time, let me just go straight to the presentation. Can you hear me, please? Thank you. Yes, sir. Okay. If you can hear me, no problem. Let me keep on trying to share. It's not like the Zoom that I'm used to, but no problem. I will keep on trying. Let me go straight to the point because of our time. Like I said, I will be discussing on agritourism, a driver for socioeconomic emancipation in developing nations. The emphasis is on developing countries. Like we said, agriculture is an important aspect of the global economy. Let me go to the basis. When God created Adam and Eve, he made Adam a farmer and an arcticulturist. And that was the basic occupation he gave to a man. And when Eve joined him in the Garden of Eden, they continued this occupation. So just to tell you the importance of agriculture. But today, it has been relegated to the background. Like the one of the, what do you call it? The, the, the, ancon mentioned that is like people look at agriculture as a business for the poor people. But it is not like that. No matter how rich you are, it may be multibillionaire. Without food, you cannot survive. You cannot eat your money. You cannot eat your car. You cannot eat your house. You cannot eat your clothes. No matter you are delicious person in the world, add dollars in your room everywhere. Without food, the person will die. So food is number one important. Even the economists mentioned the three basic of human needs is food, clothing and shelter. It is why you eat. You have solved 50% of your problem. But without food, you cannot be in existence. So we eat to live, not live to eat. So it's very, very important. At least you eat a basic meal, two types or three types in a day. Now going back to the presentation, like I said, it is important to let you know. Now, I'll just go on this agritourism. Basically, it's the integration of tourism into agricultural settings. It's a major, it's transformative force for economy, empowerment, and rural revitalization. In developing nations. Many people do not know that America today, they can supply the entire world food. United States alone can feed the 8 billion people in the world because they invested heavily in the agriculture. Why develop a country where we have lesser population? We focus on oil and gas. We focus on real estate. We focus on other businesses. And that is why you see food insecurity in developing countries today. It's a shame that a country like Nigeria, we have to import food from overseas. When we have arable lands, we have fatai lands. All of us, most of us, our parents are farmers. My father was a farmer. He has cocoa plantation. He has coffee plantation. He has palm oil plantation. I was brought out in the farm. I slept in the farm. And then we did not die. And then, but today, some of us, we cannot even cultivate on our vegetable garden at our backyard. So we need to go back to the farm. So I want to appreciate the organisers of this event for taking agriculture to a new level on a global scale. Now, moving on, because I said because of our time, we want to see what is the agriculture as a social, social economic emancipation that it creates, it generates employment opportunity for the rural youth and the women especially. Second, it preserves our cultural heritage and traditional farming. So, it also enhances rural infrastructure and promotes local entrepreneurship. If you go to some developing countries where agritourism has been so successful, places like India. India is either the first or the largest, most populous country in the world, with over 1.4 billion people. So, the agriculture, agritourism has been a kind of tools that are used to emancipate, to leave people from the poverty line. Then, if you go to places like Philippines, Philippines is a country of over 100 million people. Thailand is a country of over 60 million people. They have used agritourism. And you know Thailand is one of the top 10 tourism destinations globally. If you go to Kenya, Nairobi, and be in Nairobi, and be in Bombasa, you discover that they emphasize on the agritourism. If you go to places like Peru, a place like Costa Rica, and also in Malaysia. And these are developing countries that have developed their agritourism in order to generate national income, to increase their GDP, and to lift people from the poverty line. To generate employment opportunity, to increase the number of tourists' arrival, to increase the tourist receipt. And if you are going to the world record as a 2024 last year, the global agritourism is accounted for about 8.1 billion US dollars as a 2024. And based on statistics, there's going to be a compound exponential growth of 9.1% per year. So by 11.9% per year, by year 2030, where year 2025, by year 2030, the agritourism received globally will be 15.78 billion from the current 8.1 billion. In 2023, it was 7.38 billion. In 2024, 8.1 billion. In 2030, it is predicted it's going to be 15.78 billion. The question is, where is the share of Nigeria in this global receipt? Because today, if you tell our youth, if you tell people to invest in agriculture, everybody is on the oil and gas, real estate, transportation, AI, ICT, all these things are very good. But like I mentioned before, you can have all this money in your back account. You cannot eat your Nera and Kobo, you cannot eat your dollars. You have to eat real food. You need to eat yam. You need to eat coco-yam. You need to eat garim. You need to drink garim. You need to eat cassava. You need to eat corn. You need to eat vegetables. You need to take all these fruits. These are very important. And it is time that we focus on this aspect of the economy. And the stakeholders, we're not too quickly talking about the stakeholders. The stakeholders in agri-tourism in Nigeria include the government and policy makers, the Ministry of Agriculture, and all the state and the federal. And the newly established, the livestock ministry by the federal government, what are they doing? Number two, we have the agri-tourist. These are the tourists that visited the agri-tourism area. Then again, we have so many of them in different areas. We have investors and developers like extra-large. We have agri-tourism operators and service operators. In addition, we have the local communities. Most of us, we are not making use of these to increase the benefit of agri-tourism. Then what are the critical success factors? I'm just trying to skip my slide because I have 33 slides just to reduce them to about eight or nine. What are the CSA, which is very, very important. I'm going to talk about the critical success factors and the critical failure factors. The critical success factors for agri-tourism to thrive in Nigeria include community, community participation. We need to go back to our village and engage local people. Honestly, if you remove the local community, hunger will kill Nigeria. Because government is not providing food. There is no commercial agriculture in Nigeria. No commercial agriculture. The food we are eating are from the peasant farmers. They are operating at a subsistence level. If you go to villages in Ogu State, If you go to places in Beno State, go to places in other parts of the north, in the other part of Nigeria, you discover most of these farmers, they are peasant farmers. We lack what is called re-commercialized farmers. Okay, farming rather. Then number two, critical success factor, training and capacity building. This is a missing Nigeria. I'm happy that Estralarge is trying to solve this issue by organized training. Number three, strong marketing strategies. Most of our products, we don't know how to preserve them for exportation. We don't know how to keep them for a long period of time. So we have a lot of them being perished. Government support and policy coherence. What is the federal government budget on agriculture? What is the state government budget on agriculture? What is the local government budget on agriculture? What is the bank of agriculture budget for agriculture in Nigeria? Then we have partnership with NGO and private sectors. These are the key critical success factors. But the critical failure factors, which is very, very bad. And that is why we all need to work together. Number one, we have poor infrastructure facility. And when I talk about infrastructures, it connotes many things. You talk of access road, you talk of electricity, we talk of water. And the critical failure factor is lack of security. Security is a failure factors that today now, you see, farmers are afraid of going to the farm because of the kidnapping activities. And the reason why we have food insecurity, food that is expensive today, it appears government, they are not aware. If we solve the insecurity problem, there will be more food in the market. Because people cannot go to the farm anymore. They are afraid of being kidnapped and killed. This has to be solved. Number two, critical failure factors, lack of awareness and training. You know, when you are ignorant of things, you will not be able to perform. It is when you are ignorant, when you are not informed. I want to quote Dr. Lumide Manen. When you are not informed, you will be deformed. When you are not informed, you will be deformed. Then, weak marketing and branding. You know, agriculture is all about branding. When you talk of weak, you go to America. Look at a country like Ukraine that is still fighting war with Russia. Yet, this country that is under war still supply the global market of wheat at 30%. Can you imagine a country that is under war still supply the entire world food? What country that are not fighting war? We need to look into policy inconsistency. There is no agricultural policy in our country. We need to have policy. Now, this will be a national policy that government will follow. Like we have national policy on education, national policy on earth, national policy on aviation. We must have national policy of food security, national policy on agriculture. Again, conflict over land use. In Nigeria, we have the land use act of 1978. We are by the state governor. They are the custodian of land. Imagine today, you acquire a plot of land. You know how much you pay for certificate of occupancy from the government. This may take years. You do survey. You do survey. I hope so land should be free for those who want to do this for agricultural purposes. The inadequate stakeholder engagement. These stakeholders are not well engaged. These are the things that need to be... So, because of our time, I will soon conclude. I want to mention the social economy benefits that agritourism will bring. When we talk of emancipation, it will bring economic benefit to the people. Today, we are talking about graduate people being unemployed. It's not supposed to be so. Because we have people that can engage in commercial farming. And the benefits include increased household incomes and reduce farmer's subsidies. Again, youth empowerment in agroecologies. Most people, you can throw your farm to agroecologies. Then, women will be empowered through farming and cooperative society. They will diversify farm income in rice produce tourism. Today, we import rice from Thailand, from Vietnam, from different parts of the world. I remember when I was young, we used to have a rice plantation. Even in my secondary school, in my village, we have rice plantation. We have pineapple, we have yang plantation. East to that are located lands to contribute vegetables. All those things. I remember my school, every market, five days, we have sugarcane. We send it to market. In my school, we produce the food we eat as a boarding student. But today, all these things have been eliminated. You cannot see them anymore. They have preservation of indigenous farming practices. These are the benefits. Boost of rural, small and medium enterprises, and culinary tourism. Today, we have our stable food in Nigeria, padeniam, rice beans. All those things are supposed to be tourist attractions. If we go to a country like Malaysia, Vietnam, Indonesia, Cambodia, Singapore, all those places we will go to then. And Kenya. These are the places that take food, tourism. Very, very important. But over there in our country, we don't look at that. And we have the population. We have the market to bring a lot of people. I can tell you, in Malaysia alone, the money the country generated from tourism is more than the money we generated from our oil and gas. This country has oil and gas, but they don't even depend on it. Last year, they made over 65.6 billion ringgit on tourism. If you multiply by the exchange rate by 365 naira to their own local currency, I tell you, you'll be talking more than a general budget of 53 nr per year. Just on tourism alone. I'm not talking about gas. I'm not talking about gas. And this accounts for 10% of their GDP. So, Nigeria, this is a country of 33 million. Nigeria is three times more than this country because we don't focus on it. And I think our guest speaker from Bahamas, we testify in Bahamas, tourist is the number one economy sector. And that's the economy is based on tourism. But how much is the population of Bahamas? Bahamas is less than 300,000 people. The entire nation, the population is less than 300,000. But the money they generated, the currency is at par with USD. Because they have strong economy, strong currency. You can see where we can go if actually we focus on this. And finally, agri-tourism provides farmers and rural entrepreneurs with supplementary income streams beyond traditional farming and help us to buffer against volatility in agriculture. And provide food insecurity. So, my last slides, just to create attention, just to talk about the agri-tourism destination in Nigeria. Some of us may not be aware. We may be thinking that it's not possible. But let me talk about agri-tourism results. Let me start from our host, Extra Large Farms and Resorts of Tidy Roko Road, Ogun State. That is agri-tourism, tourist resort in Nigeria. So, most of us on this platform, if you have not been there after Covenant University, just find out you'll get there. Number two, we have farms and agri-tourism resort in Minanegia State. We have Songhai Data in Delta State. We have Obasujia Farm in Otawgun State. We have a familiar farm, Adama Farm. We have more than 20 agri-tourism destinations in Nigeria. And again, when we talk of agri-tourism destinations, we have them in, we have in Lokondja. We have Billing Kebi. We have in Agungu in Kebi State. We have Energi-Jisha Waterfall, Okum, Oil Park Plantation in Nido State. Akano Ibiam in Afipu in Ebonyi State. We have Sider Agricultural Training Center, George Vegetation, Vegetable and Flower Farm. We have Bangar Fish Farm and Wetland in Ebonyi State. We have Rando Agritourism in Ekano. There are several locations in Nigeria. But I tell you, people are not paying attention to this. So, to wrap it all because of our time, I want to let us know that there are opportunities, opportunities and potential for us in Nigeria that going through this is going to reduce poverty reduction, youth empowerment, sustainable food system, promotion of eco, heritage tourism, regional brandy export, employment opportunity, and food security. Like I mentioned, the global receipt for agri-tourism in 2023, 7.38 billion. If you convert to Naira the exchange rate, you know what I am talking about. We will be talking about 21 trillion. In 2024, last year, 8.1 billion. And by the year 2030, in about 5 years time, it will be 15.78. Now, what is the share of Nigeria in this? So, the key takeaway from this presentation, this is my last slide. Agritourism empowers rural economies. 2. Nigeria has on-tap potential. 3. Policy and stakeholder synergy is key. Sustain investment yield. I social economy return. I am very sorry that I have to stop here. And the slide is not showing again after the first one. But I hope you benefit. During the question and answer session, I will be able to provide more information. And I promise to share my slide with the organiser. I will email to them. They can share with all of us. Thank you for inviting me. Thank you so much. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. You are a wonderful presentation. This was fire. So, in sight, we start. Thank you very much, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you so much, sir. I believe we are all jumping down. We are all taking note of all of the things that Dr. Samuel is speaking of tonight. And one of the flu is . So, this was aub�ation called ul Lebo. It was a war to be, so the second drug sample They created a search by진 the majority of our paintings They41. Nobody can find something else. It lived later. Great, his life95 is running here was the limit of fast. So... Oh, no. fitness TV. Music itself is one of the most popular texts. we can't hear you thank you thank you thank you we enjoy you farmer uh dr samuel i didn't encourage you and i should like to thank you thank you please can we mute ourselves please we're still going to get to the question and answer session please we're still going to get there please thank you so much thank you so much for that please can we hear me now can we hear me now yes yes yes okay beautiful so because of the older person's microwave it would interfere with mine so please let's all do well to mute our minds so i was saying that dr samuel thank you so much for this insightful lecture that you've given to us you can all probably say that we've learned key data on how our technology must shape ordination and how we can improve on this in nigeria to get better so without wasting much of our time because time is of essence and we would also bring you back to dr samuel for the panel session to also discuss all the key integral parts i would believe that a lot of questions here have a lot of questions to us and we hope to bring up these questions for you to answer so in a moment we'll begin up our princess in the house to teach us on the same topic for the next 10 minutes so that we all can learn so ladies and gentlemen we've been on stage princess more again are they doing so lonely thank you so much mom the stage is yours mom thank you very much first and foremost i'd like to bring high royal salutations and warm greetings from the palaces of my grandfather his royal majesty of uh adikarisi i did doing a knuckle the second their terrible ramo kingdom and for those who don't know where that is is actually in organ state not very far from extra large farm that results yes i am haroya side uh highness princess maradi on adibu in shulai and i want to say a big thank you as well to the organizers particularly um dr muji david and um the ceo himself mr david and the entire extra large farm um yes i'm just going to start first by saying something in yoruba and i will translate it but the people who are yoruba will understand your people will say you say once food has been removed from that ambience called poverty then poverty has been overcome yes my father would say if you're able to put food on your table for your family then you're rich you are as good as the other rich person that has 10 cars or 10 houses because you are able to nourish your body your soul and your spirit and that of your children your wife and your family so farming as um one of our speakers said earlier is something that has been with us from the beginning of time we are created to kill the land manage it make sure that it brings forth so authentic goodness in the area of crops vegetables what have you so i'll just go very quickly to what i have prepared um i want to say ladies and gentlemen extreme guests my fellow speakers and fellow advocates of sustainable development i'm indeed honored to be speaking with you today about the transformative power of agri tourism in developing nations. And I'm particularly thrilled to be speaking at this virtual summit, which is hosted by the visionary owners of Extra Large Farms and Resorts, the trailblazer in the agritourism industry. Now, Extra Large Farms and Resorts is a shiny example of innovation and entrepreneurship in agritourism. They have, I believe, over-porting farms across Nigeria, maybe more. They are not only showcasing the potential of agriculture, but also creating opportunities for rural development, job creation, and income generation. Their commitment to sustainable agriculture practices and community empowerment is truly, truly commendable. Today, I want us to look at how agritourism can be a driver for socioeconomic emancipation in developing nations. Agritourism offers a unique opportunity for developing nations to diversify their economies. We heard the professor talking about us just looking at oil and gas and real estate and other things, whereas our focus should really be on agriculture and agritourism. If we diversify, then we'll be able to promote sustainable agriculture, empower local communities by showcasing the rich cultural heritage and natural beauty of rural areas. Agritourism can generate income, create jobs, and stimulate local economies. Agritourism can generate income, create jobs, and local communities by allowing us to grow. In Nigeria, I believe, extra-large farms and resorts are leading the way, and I'm sure most of you who know about them will agree with me. Their model of integrating farming with tourism is innovative and replicable, so we can replicate it over and over again. It is not rocket science. By providing a platform for farmers to showcase their products, and by connecting consumers with products, then we can see that they are indeed promoting sustainable agricultural practices and supporting local economic development. Agritourism can also play a critical role in promoting social economic emancipation in developing nations by empowering local communities, particularly women and youth. So, when one of the organizers was reading up my profile, I'm very particular about women. I'm very particular about children, both boys and girls, because it's what we're inputting to our children that would enable them to become great people in the future, and hopefully they'll be able to embrace things like agriculture and tourism. We can also help in reducing poverty. As I said in that Yoruba proverb, when poverty has been removed, you know, from that space, when food rather has been removed from that space called poverty, then we really overcome poverty. The fact that you can put food on your table, you are rich. You are able to feed your children, your wife, and your entire family. So kudos to you. We're also able to improve the livelihoods of our people and to promote sustainable development right across. I'd like to share some key benefits of agritourism in developing nations, and they include one, job creation and income generation, the promotion of sustainable agricultural practices, cultural exchange and preservation of tradition, empowerment of local community, support for small-scale farmers and rural development. We know that is not everybody that has the capacity to have a full-on mechanized farming, like extra large. But we can also start. We have people who can put gardens in their background or in front of their houses, where you can see that the soil is fertile. And we can also agree that nearly all the lands in Africa, you know, are fertile. All you have to do is look at when you pick your beans, you know, you want to cook things and you pick out the bad ones, and you throw those bad ones, you just throw it away. Give it two, three days, you'll see it sprouting on the ground. It shows you how rich we are. The soil of Africa is generally. Another thing is the empowerment of our local communities, you know, because they are the ones that would do the, the, the, the sack farming so they can plant yams, you know, or onions and stuff like that in sacks. They don't need to have a huge piece of land. It starts somewhere. And hopefully, even if they can just use that to feed their own families, then the job is done. We can also support small scale farmers and rural development. I really want to applaud the efforts of extra large farms and resources in pioneering agritourism in Nigeria specifically. And I know that they also have farms both in the Republic and also in the Cameroons as well. Their work is a testament to the potential of agritourism to drive socio-economic development and promote sustainable agriculture. I urge others to please follow their example and work towards creating a more sustainable, profitable and prosperous future for all. In conclusion, agritourism from my research has a potential to be a game changer. I always love that word. You know, when you say game changer, you know, it's about something serious. You want to, you want to change the narrative. You want to switch things around. For the better. And it's also very good for developing nations because nobody's going to do it for us. We have to arise and do it ourselves. The world, you know, is an amazing world. We buy and sell from each other. When you look at the pros and cons, who buys the most? Who sells the most? There has to be a balance whereby we're not just buyers and consumers. What are we also producing? What are we also putting out there? You know, first of all, as our own contribution to the world at large, when it comes to farming, food, etc. But also our own contributions to our own nation. You know, I think many years ago when I was a young girl, there was something called Operation Feed the Nation. I'm not sure what happened to that project. I think it was during General Lobasso and Joe's term. I hope that people will listen to this podcast later on and be able to go back home and think about good ways to bring, you know, this farming culture back. Let it be a part and parcel of our daily lives as we grow and as we hand it over to our children and those yet unborn. I believe we could also promote sustainable agriculture by empowering our local communities, as I said, we can generate income. Agritourism can also help to drive social economic emancipation and promote sustainable development. I look forward to seeing more innovative models like extra large farms and resorts to see them emerge in the very near future. And I believe that very soon, maybe in the next month or so, I shall also be visiting extra large farms in Otta, Hidiroko, to embrace the beauty and the splendor of agritourism right in my country, actually. Thank you so much for listening and God bless you all. Wow, that was electrifying. Thank you so much, Your Highness. Thank you. And we can't wait to have you at Extra Large Farms and Resorts, Aziz, all the way from Bahamas. Thank you so much, Mom. And thank you for the recommendation for the podcast. Please, let's all take our time to go through it later. We are moving forward. Now it is time for our last keynote. Thank you. That was nice. Thank you. Yeah, thank you so much. Please, can we celebrate Aria, Ines in the comments? Let's drop a nice comment. Let's appreciate her. I would have loved for us to unmute ourselves, but because of our time, because we still want to ask questions, we have to move into the next section by Dr. Debbie Bartlett. Am I right? Yes, you're absolutely right. Thank you, Mom. Thank you, Mom. Listen, I thoroughly enjoyed this entire presentation so far. Happy Father's Day to all the fathers. Happy Father's Day. Oh, my goodness. Listen, I am so humbled to be a part of this revolution. As the managing director said, I want to give special salutations to the chairman, to the managing director, to all of you leaders here. But I was thinking as I listened to Dr. Samuel, her Royal Highness, who has just introduced me to a powerful and wonderful African community, that this revolution is the Great Awakening. The Great Awakening, the Great Awakening that Africa is the mother of civilization. In the West and around the world, we have missed what that means. Honor your mother and your father, so that your days may be long. My purpose, commands, demands, and signs me to be a part of this revolution, to point the finger of honor back to our Royal Highnesses and Her Majesty's around the world. But I want to say something especially to you as the David. The Lord has assigned you extra farm to help restore the original plan of God. As Dr. Samuel talked about the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries was really the second industry of humanity. God introduced himself. He stepped right there in the beginning of time. And the first thing he did is he introduced communication. That's what we are doing right now. We are not going to bond. We are not going to unite like Dr. David, which he said, united in love towards a common goal. That common goal must be to restore the original plan of God. The original plan of God and the purpose of mankind is to be rulers of industry. The first industry he gave us rulership over is agriculture. Boy, we don't have time to go into that. But I want us to give this thought as we think about it. And also speaking to the subject of a driver for socio-economic emancipation and developing nations. We have to be reminded that God trusted us first in Africa to be economically emancipated. We were born in his presence. We were born economically emancipated. Hey! So prosperity is our natural environment. Poverty is our unnatural environment. Distinguished leaders, visionary entrepreneurs, and champions of African prosperity. We stand at the threshold of the greatest economic transformation our continent. I say our because, hey, every human being, black, white, Asian, is from where? Africa. The greatest transformation our continent has witnessed since independence. Today, I speak not just as Dr. Deborah Barthage from the Bahamas. I served on the board with Dr. Miles Monroe for 32 years. And he used to say the place where God lives. But as a daughter of the African diaspora, returning home, connecting with you, with a message of economic emancipation, that will reshape our destiny. You know, let's think about it. The numbers are staggering. The global agritourism market reached 73.2 billion in 2024. And it's projected to soar to 205.6 billion by 2033. A growth rate of 10.9% annually. This is just not growth. This is economic revolution disguised as sustainable development. But here's what the statistics don't tell you. Don't tell me. While the world chases this trillion dollar opportunity, Africa, the cradle of civilization, the continent blessed with 60% of the world's uncultivated arable land, remains largely... Oh boy, let me change that. Extra large? Can you hear me? You are divinely appointed as a leader. Today, we change the narrative. Extra large farming leads the way. The economic emancipation imperative, the Caribbean's wake-up call, the Caribbean's wake-up call, the Caribbean's wake-up call, the Caribbean's wake-up call. The Caribbean imports 80 to 90% of all food consumed in the region. With only three Caribbean countries, Guyana, Belize, and Haiti, producing more than 50% of their own food. Come. Come a little closer. Let's picture this. Can we picture this? 4.1 million Caribbean people. 57% of our population now face food insecurity. A 46% increase in just six months. The COVID-19 pandemic didn't create this crisis. It exposed a fundamental flaw in our economic architecture. We built service economies that consume but do not produce. Nigeria. You have the power to avoid this trap. Again, I see extra large farms leading the way. Your country relies on $10 billion in food imports annually. Yet, you possess 70.8 million hectares of agricultural land. This is not a resource problem. This is a mindset challenge the developing world has to confront. We have to evaluate ourselves. It's not their fault. It's our fault. The middle class limitation tourism, as traditionally practiced, creates what I call the middle class ceiling. It generates service jobs, creates consumers, but rarely produces wealth creators. The middle class is not humanity's intended destination. Economic emancipation is. Destination promised land. Her Royal Highness and I founded the Economic Emancipation Movement. It's now the Strategic Alliance for Economic Emancipation. In the Caribbean, we learned this painful lesson. Our tourism industry worth billions flows like water through a sift. The profits exist on the same ships and planes that bring our visitors because we fail to create the production linkages that transform service revenue into generational wealth. See, this is what is so exciting about extra farmland. Listen, when I see you all producing, what do you call it? Agritech-ing. You're producing products and you're creating distribution channels. You're distributing the oils of tank, palm oil. That's a little bit of aim in there for you, okay? That's what I mean, a tank. A tank. A tank. A tank. Hallelujah. But you know, Nigeria. Africa's agritourism powerhouse. In the waiting, the untapped giant, Nigeria. You are perfectly positioned for agritourism dominance. And now, by the way, we want to be the dominant agritourism market for the Western Hemisphere, the Bahamas. And so I know you're all coming over here. We have already started making some pathways, some inroads, because we need extra farm over here in the Bahamas and the Caribbean. You know, that's what we have to do. We've got to work together. People are here with their eyes. They don't see black people working together. We are voice enemies. But let's get back. That's all. They're coming right back. Consider these assets of Nigeria. You rank sixth worldwide and first in Africa in farm output, with agriculture accounting for 18% of GDP and employing 35% of your workforce. You are the world's largest cassava producer, generating 59 million tons annually, 20% of global production. But here's where vision meets opportunity. Nigeria faces a $180 million agricultural investment gap. While simultaneously USAID has already facilitated $244 million in agricultural investments supporting 18,000 Nigerian owned small businesses. This gap is not an obstacle. It's an invitation for agritourism to bridge production with tourism revenue and realize your vision for farming to fortune. There is a multiplication effect. Now, I founded an organization called the CEO Network in 1997, 26 years ago. I witnessed the power of economic linkages. I always said, listen, why is our cash flow industry tourism always coming in and going out? Our attempt to build a fulfillment center. I'm going to answer that question for you. Because you see, we have a middle class and stagnant, not moving towards tourism, because we lack linkages into the cash flow industry. That is what the extra large farms doing. You're creating linkages so that there are multiple channels of opportunity for economic emancipation. That when we not only eat in the resort from the farm, but we are making in the Bahamas, guava jam or mango juice or, and we are then taking and packaging it right there on extra large farm Bahamas or extra large farm St. Lucia or extra large farm Ghana. We are taking our fruit and we are having a throughput into Europe. Everybody eats what we grow. And now they are small business owners having access to a global market. So our money is circulating in our community more. The problem why we create poverty, because we spend more time keeping each other down and looking at what the other one has versus saying if we have more people being economically lifted and understand that is a Joshua. When the Lord told Joshua to move forward, he said, don't, don't, listen, you elders, don't you go on your estates. Don't, no, no, don't go on your estates and rest until you go ahead of the generation who is crossing over Jordan and help them up and succeed. And then we have that mindset. It means that the money is circulating more in our community. And I, I, I, this is what I wanted to do. And, and, and, and I was consultant to, um, that these products are a major beauty care, um, factory in North Carolina. And, you know, we attempted to establish a, a fulfillment center, Dr. Benabee and I, a local physician and packaging facility, who did, um, out along our packaging is the wife, the couple, Christian couple, Al and Hattie Hollingsworth. And they package with Procter & Gamble, DuPont, General Mills, all this, you know, we wanted to break all of them. Everything was, we, we, we put $500,000 in that. In those days, that was a lot of money in our own money, um, with promises and this and we wanted to make it available to any, every Bahamian. And, and, and, and, but it failed not because of lack of vision, but because of small minds, small minds, small minds, poisoned by petty and small thinking. Can I tell you that one of the, um, leaders in the country, you know what he said? You, you all wouldn't believe this. Okay. I provide, I prefer white money over black money any day. That's our race. We are ashamed of each other. We believe, let's see, success. Wealth is not just assigned to a color named white. It assigned to them, but it assigned to us too. But people are waiting to hear with their eyes and see us help each other become economically, economically emancipated. So that the, we, we miss that opportunity. We miss the opportunity because of small thinking, but I want to say extra large farms, the David's. We have the opportunity to transcend such limitations. The mind shift is happening. Respect for Africa is being restored as our economies expand and our visionary leaders gain international recognition. The partnership imperative. We must have a partnership imperative. We invite extra large farms to consider partnering with visionaries like the Global South University Association. Um, all influenced by her Royal Highness. I am the director general. I'm, I'm really honored by that. That, you see, that's, that's, that's, I'm telling you that because this is the kind of mindset that when we see each other's strength, we, we not bashful to put the people who we feel are the most qualified and to lead the position that is going to make a difference for all of us. And, and, and I also want to challenge us and, and share that, um, extra large farms consider partnering with, uh, the, the strategic alliance for economic emancipation because we were born to serve you. That's the strategic alliances of economic emancipation just for, just for another emphasis there. And, and I want to connect with our Grand 번째 Angeles, theFreeThus, We have a saying here that we are the heartbeat of the nation. So we deal with people from birth to the grave. And we are saying, listen, we are not born to stay on the dependency line. We have to move from dependency to self-sufficiency to economic empowerment. And so the partnership that I speak about, wouldn't it be powerful if together we launch a countdown for achieving the 17 development goals, at least those that are our priorities and within our framework of vision and passion, with particular emphasis on housing, agriculture, poverty eradication and technology. This is bigger than any single company or any single country. This is about creating a movement that transforms Africa, that transforms the continent, that transforms the Caribbean, that transforms all developing countries. How about that? How about that? The potential to transform our developing nations to prosperity. I conclude. This is the moment of decision. Distinguished leaders, we stand where our ancestors stood when they built the pyramids, established the kingdoms of Ghana, Mali, Songhe, and created the mathematical and astronomical knowledge that civilization still uses today. The greatest innovations and adventures came from Africa. They didn't see limitations. They saw possibilities. Let us unite and achieve the culture of prosperity from farming to fortune. God bless you. God bless you. It's been my honor. Thank you so much. Thank you so much, ma'am. This is amazing. Please, can we put our hands together for all of our speakers? My notes is full. I got amazing value from that. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Thank you. Wow. Awesome. Thank you. Thank you very much. Wow. Thank you. Wow. Thank you. Thank you so much, ma'am. Thank you. Thank you. When you're looking for a speaker on any type of topic, I would always put Dr. Valle forward. Always. Wow. Thank you. Thank you. She feels it. Thank you, everyone. Thank you so much. Thank you so much, Dr. Debbie. We appreciate you, ma'am. Thank you so, so much. Thank you. Your Highness, Princess Maraday. We appreciate you, ma'am. Thank you so much, Professor Thamaday Jo. We really do appreciate you. And we are glad to let you know that we have your words for honoring our invitation to speak, you know, in this meeting tonight and for pioneering the first ever, you know, you are our first set of speakers in a groundbreaking peak edition of the world, first, the premier edition of the world agritourism festival. So you have a special award to that regard. And then, by God's grace, I know Dr. Debbie is coming to Nigeria, and we are also coming to the Bahamas. Our Royal Highness is coming to Nigeria, and we will also be in the UK. Dr. Joe is coming to Malaysia. And by God's grace, we are also coming to Malaysia. And whichever one comes first, we will be able to hand over your awards to you. And we will also be hosting you in a three-day call expense paid luxury holiday at the biggest luxury farm resort in Nigeria, which is Extra Large Farms. Thank you so much. Thank you, Ma. Thank you, Ma. That's beautiful, Ma. Thank you, Ma. Thank you, Ma. So, Extra Large Unmute Yourself. Aren't you blessed tonight? Extra Large Unmute Yourself. Wow. Extra Large Unmute Yourself. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Thank you so much. Thank you very much. Thank you so much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. And I want to officially let you know. I want to officially let you know. thank you thank you so much and i want to officially let you know i want to officially let you know um to the glory of god um like you heard proudly from the glory of god dr debbie let's mute ourselves if you are not speaking please the media team should help out with that please you can mute everybody then ahemdi thank you thank you thank you thank you our our digital master thank you so um like you heard proudly from dr debbie extra large is being replicated in the bahamas and you are amazing i'm happy to hear that congratulations congratulations so you can as well say we have extra large in the bahamas we have extra large in the uk we have you know by the special congratulations congratulations so as they will be coming here we will also be going there by god's grace um also in the uk um for for all of us that are um here because we have a lot of our people here from the united kingdom i can see ambassador uche um i can see um governor tim i can see ambassador felicia or joe you know um i can see quite a number of people from the uk here tonight thank you so much so um um our royal highness princess maraday is the is the host and organizer of the ashwabi festival um happening live in the uk in october and we are all invited extra largest invited as uh as an entity so please let's uh mark the date and let's support one another um like dr debbie said you know um they don't want africans to do things together but we are breaking that barrier we will foster unity we will continue to you know grow in love and we will continue to break all the barriers and by the special grace of god and forward ever we will all ever go and backward never so please let's begin to prepare for that and also we are going to have the world agritourism festival the uk edition coming up also in october a round of applause amazing fantastic um we are having the world agritourism festival the canadian um edition coming up also in march in 2026 a round of applause the glory of god we are having the world agritourism festival the australian edition in july a round of applause and no not because they are the smallest but that that's just the way it arranged we are also having the extra large world agritourism festival in france in the in may 2026 the world agritourism festival in the world and the world is the most important part of the world so but i want to put dr debbie on the spot because i had dr debbie and and and professor joe i hope professor joe is here because i know he has a meeting he needs to attend to by the way it's a huge sacrifice he played here tonight it's about after 3 a.m in his country and he's still here with us and i also need to let you know that every of us speakers today are members and friends of the extra large family we didn't bring anybody from outside all these people are inside our community and we blessed oh my gosh oh my god we are everybody we spoke tonight our friends and family of emily i heard when araya and my highness from the uk was saying um my fellow affiliates you know she said my fellow affiliates because she's she's a fellow affiliate like you she's a fellow member like you in the extra large family once again i'd like to say a very big thank you and um we want to say this if you are going to be anywhere on the 3rd of july hmm the only place you are permitted to be is at bamora convention center that is the only place you are permitted to be on the 3rd of july right and we are going to be doing imaginary unimaginable things unfathomable things we are going to be breaking record once again even as we unveil the hidden secret secret you know of financial empowerment of job creation of healthy living and um sustainable agricultural practices through tourism that's what we're going to be doing on the 3rd of july and we're going to be practically placing in your hands you know things that are capable of moving you forward thank you once again um we're going to have questions and answers shortly but i'd like to just uh make um some few announcements as we go um number one on the special location of this year's um international father's day yes from our dear father our ceo our chairman um farmer dr shee abim bola davis he's rolling out a scholarship today for 100 youth to be trained live on the farm on agriculture especially in sack farming 100 um scholarships have been given out today as we speak right now you know to anybody especially the younger ones who are interested in learning about farming and making good use of it and also going ahead to become ambassadors to begin to teach others all over their communities by the grace of god extra like i'm too happy to hear that i need to to hear your applause for that one thank you i mean amazing amazing amazing thank you so much thank you so much thank you so much also also um as we continue to champion this course of course we have so many um opportunities that we would have loved to to teach out tonight but thank god that we are all in our whatsapp groups and from tomorrow we are going to be seeing a lot of you know um um opportunities being dished out but tonight we want to place just two people on an amazing um this bonus i don't even know how to explain it so just to just to just to you know if somebody is here and you really want to champion this course and carry it on your head and say yes it's not just only going to be by mouth i want to take it to the next level and i want to partner with extra large in providing more accommodation to people as they come to the resort you know to for their for their different um moods you want to be that person you who wants to own a home in the extra large farm resorts right and help us partner with us to provide more accommodation for people as they come to the resort you want to own minimum a two-bedroom bungalow and you can start with at least five million to get started you know you want to chat us this um evening on 08171 60 60 21 somebody should please help us um put that in the chat area and in appreciation for that apart from that you're going to own your house and you're going to be generating multiples of millions um as rental income on your house annually we are also going to place you on a six month food salary from extra large farms to say thank you for doing this on such a remarkable day like this all right so or you have the option to choose that one or you have another option to choose we are going to list to you a plot of land you know without collecting any money from you you know and then you are going to also give us somebody that we can train that is going to help you you know work on that more profitable things to do on that one plot of land within one year plus we are going to give you a guaranteed off taking arrangements for that one plot of land somebody's here tonight you want to take off that um advantage um please send a message to that whatsapp number right now as we speak there are other people here you're already homeowners within the extra large community and you have um on your on your payment all right you are on your payment already and you are making the payment of minimum five million naira in this month you are also joining that category um to win that six month food salary that means every month we're getting food worth 50 50 000 for the next three months all right so congratulations to those who are taking that another good news because some people are here they may not be able to afford all the things that we just said but because today is a special day today is a special day we are giving only 20 people just 20 people the number to reach out to is 0 8 1 7 1 6 0 6 0 2 1 all right the part but not that is that the thought yes we're also giving out opportunity for just 20 people because today is a special day we've already closed the yam package where you are joining us to provide more to produce more yams more yams more yams this year we started out we are going to produce 1 million tubers of yam you know for nigeria in this year 2025 and god has really helped us it's been amazing the farms have been doing fantastically well so only 20 people tonight we want to be part of that yam um um project and we've just 375 thousand naira you know and it's a 15 month project i guess and then after the harvest and everything you are getting half a million naira back into your account only 20 people have the opportunity for that this evening send a message also to that number for the ones who want to get the home to get the house send home ownership for the ones who are interested in the yam package send yam project due to the same number so we don't confuse you with too many numbers 0 8 1 7 1 6 0 6 0 2 1 now for the 100 people who are going to win the scholarship for the practical from training on sack farming so that you can be able to start your farm anywhere and start immediately so that there will be no limitation of any sort all right now we are going to be having that training immediately after our july 11th um event coming up at mario to tell all right so um you want to be one of those people just say yeah sack training just say sack training and send it um not that number this time around sack training you will send that to um 080 21 28 6 6 0 7 and we're going to add you to the group 080 21 28 6 6 0 7 last but not the least today is such a good day it's it's just rolling with goodness all over last but not the least to off our agri preneas well there's a package we did agripreneurs many years ago your time is here and you're also going to join the 100 people that we're going to be giving that training um um you know launching into that training so that you can also get the um getting prepared you know to start your own farms so you are an agripreneur you have an agripreneur package with us at extra large please also send that message to that number so that you can also get qualified for the program july 3rd at bamora don't forget don't forget everybody should go and get registered on the website um the thing is that we uh we know we don't want you know we don't always want money to be the challenge for everybody for anybody at extra large the the event at bamora the agri tourism well-deneers that's milania bilonia well-deneers expo coming up at bamora convention center sheraton lagos ikeja on the 3rd of july the ticket is actually 100 000 all right so but because we know that some people may not be able to afford it and we don't want money to be the problem so we have decided that you can apply on a sponsorship that means if you're applying on a sponsorship you're actually not coming for free somebody's paying for you somehow because you know this type of events are not events you just throw for free somebody's actually paying for you somehow so if you know you can afford it please don't allow us to waste that money since you know you can't afford it so go to the website or call this number for registration 080-7375-2251 famankichi is the registration officer for this event and then you can you know um get across to her on that um that's for the um event but for those who are getting the vip ticket which costs 100 000 naira all right you want to um upgrade yourself away from the free ticket to the vip status which comes with a muse at the venue it comes with a certification that you are now you know a proud agritourism executive of extra light farms and you have also joined the extra light global agritourism initiative it's not only it's no longer a nigerian thing now it is all over the world as you know before right we actually even have the extra like global agritourism limited registered as the united kingdom um um incorporated company all right so um please you want to upgrade to the um vip status it comes with meals it comes to certification and it comes again with an after party at the event on the third of july there's going to be an after party for all our vip guests number four it gives you admittance to a two-month mentorship program where we are going to be for other teaching you how to rake in millions millions every month you know just by practicing agriculture and tourism with extra like even with zero capital all right so if you are coming on the sponsor ticket you may not be able to get all those other extras but if you are coming on the vip ticket which is 100 000 naira but for everybody watching tonight and wants to take a step tonight you just go and leave a message to the number i'll call it again we are going to give you 70 percent discount 70 percent discount that means instead of paying 100 000 naira you will only pay 30 000 naira even the venue venue you are coming to the cost per head is more than 30 000 naira not to talk about every other thing so it tells you that it's not about money we are just here to touch lives and to make sure that's that's what you i always make bold to say that we started agriculture with money with millions of money yes but we became poor inside agriculture before god lifted us up again and we strongly believe that we are you know we are blessed to be a blessing and today we can both come out and say from zero to billions from farming to fortune because god has helped us and we also want to help other people that's why you see us doing this magnitude of of an event even even for free for those of you who know the cost of all those venues that we are using you know that is not a small thing adverse publicity you know and many other things that that is multiples of millions of naira but we are ready to sew that seed into your lives so that every one of us can become empowered that is the dream of extra life so congratulations to you all whether you want the vip ticket you are claiming that bonus that 70 bonus or you still want to come on the sponsor ticket that you will not pay anything please tomorrow morning not tonight or you can just leave a message on that number on whatsapp tonight somebody will call you tomorrow send a message right now say um just say july 3rd just send july 3rd to 080-7375-2251 questions and answers are coming on shortly i want to believe we've all enjoyed ourselves tonight once again that number 080-7375-2251 those two people that want to become proud owners marking today as their day of history and the day that they they lent a big voice to support agritourism in nigeria not because of yourself alone but for the whole world at large you want to home own a home in the biggest luxury farm resort in nigeria which is extra light send a message to 081-71-606021 for the young famine as well the same number for the agripeniors and the people that are winning the scholarship for the training your number is 080-21-28-667 thank you so much let me give you a shocker yesterday one of our big ministers in nigeria you know that is built to speak at the event um i'm coming up in july you know the the one of the aids just called me yesterday and they said uh his excellence is on his way to the venue i said which venue which venue is july you know that tells you how much excited they are even the people in the corridors of power you know they are also excited about what we are doing and they said they are already on their way i said please don't be on your way it's not today it's due to june um it's due to july you know so you all are textualized you also be excited and i also want to quickly add this if there's any time you can make good money yeah if there's any time you can you you can impact people positively about your passion in agriculture and tourism this is the moment so make sure every one of us here i want us to invite 10 10 people each to the events yeah 10 10 people each to the event at bar moral the one at marriott and the farm fest oh my god farm fest spread across june till um till august we are going to be having three days together in the farm you know in the resort enjoying ourselves learning on learning unwinding networking rubbing minds together to you know be to be the best that we can ever be that one cost you just 120 000 if you want to share them with somebody and if you don't want to share them with anybody it cost you just 200 000 there wow it's amazing it's amazing it's amazing somebody has for the numbers we called tonight no problem at least no one and say what you want on that number from there we will send you the right number in case you made a mistake 0 8 1 7 1 6 0 6 0 2 1 let me hear once again from us our guest speakers dr debbie and um i i is is professor just you here sir let me here look at the empowerment packages that we are rolling out already i want to hear from our speakers and then we open the floor for questions and answers you can begin to type your questions in the chat area so that we can begin to also um prepare to answer you dr debbie ma yes yes i'm still with you uh i'm so sorry what was the question i'm sorry it was not a question it was a question it was not a question look at all the packages and offers and bonuses that we are running out tonight what does it mean to you ma oh oh listen i believe that what you're doing is confirming uh what mrs what dr david said that you're leading a revolution a revolution of ownership a revolution that ends to economic emancipation a revolution that rewards diligence diligence hands will rule laziness um and slave labor a revolution that is a response to the mandate of mankind black white whatever it is as as is the colony of heaven a revolution to our realign um the earth to be paradise governed by peace and prosperity because it is a revolution that unites when the children of babel determined that they were going to the heavens and building as high as the heavens and they had no technology they were able to do it because they were with one voice they were not jostling joel joel too says he's going to raise up an army that will not break right they won't jostle each other they're not jealous of one another they understand the lane of their purpose they are focused like joshua not looking to the left or the right they were able to get to the heavens without technology imagine now that we have wealth is we understand that wealth is in knowledge and uh achievement is through unity and uh it's accelerated when we submit to the to the vision of god for earth so thy kingdom come on earth as it is in heaven so you are leaders of the revolution thank you thank you so much thank you so much thank you so much thank you so much dr we appreciate you ma thank you don't worry we are we are all coming as you are coming to nigeria we are coming to to the bahamas how many people actually don't meet yourself how many people are coming with us to the bahamas this is fantastic thank you fantastic thank you very much professor joe are you there sir yes i'm still with you um honestly thank you so much for this sacrifice we appreciate it sir no no problem we are used to it honestly the series of investments and the other things you have mentioned uh prior to this time i went through your website i was introduced to your organization i think july last said by my elder brother who is also on this platform tonight and um i think uh this is what our government should be doing at all levels uh local state and federal but unfortunately they are not doing it and this is a sector that uh the financial institutions should invest heavily because looking at what you are doing this is a sustainable business that affects global businesses not only that you convert platform for people to have a passive income i remember i started uh in july last year with just for extra token uh today i know the number of extra token that i had and uh not only that you also apart from agriculture you are into a real estate whereby you create opportunity for people to be owners in the estate and not necessarily that you are living there but they can also generate income for the owners whenever they are not around and this is sustainable and my view generally is to recommend extra life to the united nation world tourism organization to adopt this model for nations across the world as a way of elevating poverty to empower people at all levels because you look at the united nation development good the 17 sd um poverty reduction said sd2 is talking about um uh zero and no no hunger or whatever your view and these are the things that our government should be promoting instead of investing in a all sustainable passive income mmm cbs that after three months they will do that you have an address you have location the facility are there and then these are the people are evolving you don't need to break back before you be either investors or investors you have money so you have created a kind of community that government across the world should use this um extra large as a model as a framework for global institution to come and study at this extra life i want to congratulate you and our ceo and all the staff and all the investors and all the participants we are all partners honestly when i wake up every day the first thing to see it will see how much is coming to me because by why am my whole time i receive a lot every day and what i desire every day how can i invest more from next dollar wow yes you have not invested in extra life there are several opportunities from as low as 50 000 naira how much it is in dollar which is a less than 20 dollars you can invest in extra life and right from the fourth day you'll be making some extra income so i want all of all to support this organization i'm looking at it in the next few years you'll be enrolled in the nigeria stock exchange new york stock exchange wow wow wow thank you so much professor we appreciate you sir yes your highness ma yes yes yes yes dr moji um first of all i say you know nobody can tell the story of a place or a people except the main action you must have sat where they sat felt their pain understand their challenges celebrate their achievements only then can you really have a full understanding of where somebody's coming from or where they've been or what they're going through you have said with us how you initially put money and invested in farming and you lost sadly but it did not stop you because you had a vision you did not divert from that vision you were intentional with the vision that god gave you and you went right back in but this time you went yourselves not asking anybody to you want to do it yourself so basically you have put your hands in the plow and in doing that god has blessed you and you're not taking your blessing just onto yourselves you've decided to be a blessing onto others so many others across the world and that is what i've seen in i mean from the very first time i met you anyway and all the discussions we've had i'm a very proud member you know of the of the extra large club and i'm pulling too many of the people in to do the same um i'm also very interested in you know in all the things that you've said from you know i have people that want to sponsor them to come for the the sack training the entrepreneur training you know the scholarships and i'm also very interested in in in the property investment and as i've told you before the finished products i am very interested and it's also not for me i want to empower some people in the uk that i believe they can also gain from it so wow all i can say is more grease to your elbows you know you can rise and shine and um i know we talk about you know the sdg goals which are very good you know set up all the policies that we have um done by the un and all countries are supposed to um key into that and abide by that but we all know that um government is government and who are government people like you and i so the government is not from the sky or from some planet they're human beings and we know there's something called human factor so at times the government does not do what they are meant to do at times even abroad so it's not nowhere is where the government is perfect absolutely not however we as human beings we are as entrepreneurs we as private owners of organizations and companies we using those sdg goals using all the policies we can be self-sustainable do our things ourselves and carry people with us along the way and that's what i've seen that you are doing at extra large you're not waiting for government if government wants to come about fine they're welcome the doors are open but your doors and your gates are really for everybody from farm to fortune and i believe that's where we're going and as my sister dr debbie said and as um um dr ojo also said even the skies don't delimit because what you have put in place is amazing in fact right now because i have another person who's listening in i'm going to introduce you to serial ill ibm sł where all the parents, most of the parents were killed. So they have... Let me just quickly tip in, Ma, that the Minister of Agriculture, as a matter of fact, the wife of the President of Sreloan is partnering with us big time in this World Agritourism Festival. And they'll be sending their delegates on the 11th of July. Next we talk to First Lady Fatima tell her you met her mentor. I mentored the First Lady for many years. I think we're going to have a meeting. I think we're going to have a meeting and I'm making sure you're there, Ma. Yes, and we're very happy to have her with us in Ghana with Dr. Debbie some years before COVID. She's a very dear friend, a very good baby sister of mine. Wow. They are all built to be... Yes, they are all built to be at the one coming up in the UK. in October. Oh, so we're all in Kenya. In Australia. In Kenya. In Kenya. In Kenya. In Kenya. In Kenya. In Kenya. In Kenya. And I know I'll be very happy to also introduce you to another wonderful sister of mine who's a big Motown musician, Miss Gloria Jones, who wrote for Yes. Yes. So she's going to be at the Gala. She's going to be here in October. And she lives, she's been living in Sierra Leone for 25 years, maybe 30 years. Looking up for young people. Wow. And she's very interested in farming. Wow. Wow. Very interested in farming to empower the youth. Thank you so much. So it's a network. It's a movement. And, you know, we're getting there. Yes. And by the special grace of God, it's doable. Yes. It's doable. Yes. And I just want to congratulate everybody on the great. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you, Your Highness. Yes. Thank you, Your Highness. God bless you. God bless you. Some people are asking. I can see some messages popping on. Please don't forget 081-716-06021. And thankfully, this summit was transmitted live also on YouTube. A big thanks to our media team for that, former David and former Samantha. God bless you for coming up with that initiative. So thank you so much. Something great happened just now. You know, as we are celebrating our speakers and indeed every member of Extra Light Farm here, we are people from the United States of Ikoroju. We are people from the United States of Agege. We are people from Ibado, from all over Nigeria. I guess we celebrate you all. And I am proudly speaking to you from the United States of Otta. Otta. We are going to leave. Thank you, everybody. Yes. And we are celebrating our wonderful speaker from Malaysia, Malaysia. Professor Samuel Ojo, thank you so much, sir. We are celebrating our wonderful mommy here. And Dr. Debbie, thank you from Bahamas. Thank you so much. You've impacted us a lot tonight. We are celebrating also our royal highness princess, Maradion, all the way from the United Kingdom. But I noticed somebody came in just quietly now. Ladies and gentlemen, we have in our midst tonight, the honorable special advisor to the Lagos State Government on Agriculture and Food Systems. Please, please, please, please put your kids together for tomorrow. Thank you, everyone. Wow. Wow, wow, wow. Wow, wow, wow. Wow, wow, wow, wow. Wow, wow, wow, wow, wow. That's great. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Bad innovation for you, sir. So can you just say one more. Just say hello. We know you have us on, you have the floor. and we are honored that you're supporting us like this we wish we had this support from you know thank you so much sir for joining us people want to hear your voice hello everyone um thank you for being there i thought i would just sneak in to listen to what's going on but the the golden fish cannot hide sir so i wish you all the best and thank you i we look forward to seeing you on the third and the third of july thank you so much ladies and gentlemen that was the senior special the special advisor to the lagos state governor on agriculture and food systems we are so honored to have you here thank you sir thank you so much uh we have representatives of the of the of the united nations here as well they have asked not that we should not mention their name they are just here to observe what we are doing it tells you that you know extra large is you know we are our matter is beginning to get to where it's supposed to get to so thank you everybody don't forget third of july everybody should be there that all can take up to 2 500 people so there is no limitation if you want to come on the sponsor ticket we have several people who are ready to sponsor others to come excellent is also sponsoring a lot of people but please like i said if you know you can afford it please let's not expend the money on you let's do just for something better for those who can't afford it don't forget oh barista kachi from the nigerian diaspora investment summit is also here tonight oh my god oh my god all the way from the united kingdom of the united kingdom thank you so much uh oh we are so honored i think i just got a message also now we have honorable shumi or this so yeah who is also the special um special advisor to the lagos state government on um don um i'm i'm sorry i need to quickly get the full meaning of don now thank you so much sir in fact we are so blessed tonight we are so blessed tonight um next week by god's grace we are honored to be um we will be speaking to all the high commissioners of the commonwealth nations all right we will be addressing them um live in abuja um by the special grace of god you know you can't just take this for granted god is a move in this place and you need to ride on the wings of his favor that you are enjoying presently um we want to take just two questions as we call it today somebody you have a question um a moderator from us samantha have you been checking the chat area do we have um do we have questions there please anybody wants to ask a question can you just raise your hands and let's just um we don't have any question in the chat area ma okay does anybody have a question just we'll just take two yes we have to call it a day oh yeah please unmute yourself um um okay please unmute yourself and speak this kindly unmute yourself please and ask your question okay please we are waiting for you if you have any question please unmute yourself and speak it is so amazing to be here tonight and i can feel the energy two hours plus and it feels as though we're just 20 minutes into this wow 20 minutes i tell you i tell you i tell you okay please can you unmute yourself and speak please we are taking just two questions please unmute yourself and ask the question thank you okay good evening ma good evening um thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you i came across it from you know faith book and i tried to so my question is that um if i want to join this community what are the processes that i need to i mean that i need to follow and i need to um that i need to follow to be part of this community that's my question okay okay okay so just take this number and tomorrow morning or tonight just leave a message for that number or whatsapp somebody will call you to guide you on how to get started um 080-73-75-2251 and i must congratulate you that for even joining this meeting tonight you're already a part of this family but if you want to take it for that we have just a it i i call you stupid a token amount of just 15 000 naira will make you a lifetime member of extra large a lifetime member of extra large so please call that number whatsapp that number now so that um tomorrow morning they'll call you to explain everything to you and you can also get an account registered on our website and then continue to you know enjoy you know um agriculture healthy food training empowerment programs tourism healthy living and everything that we represent at extra thank you very much i think there's a question on the chat area and that will be our last for tonight yes amazing we didn't intend for this meeting to be this long but i everybody enjoy themselves okay so blessed actually i love farming but the challenge i have is that once the harvest is out and you want to sell to the market people the prices are ridiculous amounts how can you say about this man it's one of the things we'll be discussing on the third of july we've faced it we we suffered that and if you are a member of xology would have heard you know how we overcame that challenge and we are teaching other people to also be able to overcome the same way we overcame we've always said it it's not about just going to the farm to farm when it's time for you to harvest and and start making your profit another problem appears so we we are ready to provide that mentorship we are ready to provide that training you know so that everybody will be doing um you know they will be reaping the the fruits of their labor indeed you know from agriculture so please make sure you are there on the third of july or if you have any of them called out tonight um if you forget all the numbers are you interested in any of the things we said just send your message right now on whatsapp 0 8 1 0 8 1 7 1 6 0 6 0 2 1 somebody's on that call right now to attend to you don't say whether you are interested in the home ownership program you are interested in the yam project you are interested in the scholarship we gave out tonight to 100 people to learn about farming you are an agropreneur farmer before with extra large farms you want to attend the bar moral events just pour your your whatever, your interest to 081-71-6021. From there, we add it to the relevant group that you need to join and give you all the information that you need. Guess what, everybody? Guess what, guess what, guess what? We are having another virtual summit in two weeks' time. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. And that will be on the 29th of June. You can't have to miss it. So, please, everybody should just start getting ready. And we're going to bring some powerful people who are going to be, you know, stepping us up and waking us up from our slumber. Look at what Bahamas is making in tourism. What is Nigeria doing? Look at our brother from Malaysia. Look at all the opportunities that wrote on. What is Nigeria doing? We are sitting on a gold mine and we don't even know it. Let's wake up the giants in us. There is enough for us to enjoy as a nation. There is so is the land flowing really with milk and honey. But we have to know how to, you know, get it up. So, let's wake up from our slumber. ExtraLive is here to help us achieve all the dreams as God helps us as well. Thank you once again. Thank you to all your mere speakers. Thank you to our secret observers from the United Nations. We appreciate you, sirs. Thank you to our wonderful father. Fathers, there are two from the Lagos State Government. Honestly, you just melted my heart tonight. Thank you. I just got a message that somebody is sending me a message that we from Canada too are here. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. This love is massive. Thank you. This love is massive. Thank you very much. Everybody invite 10 people each for the event coming up on the 3rd of July. And the one at Marriott on the 11th of July is another level entirely. If you don't know how to make money, just come to ExtraLive. Through agriculture and tourism, we will all get to the better place. Thank you, my darling moderators. Thank you. I have it over back to you now. Thank you. Thank you so much. So, I saw a message on the call right now saying that the free ticket we gave out for the Balmoral, you haven't gotten a response. Please exert patience. We are processing a lot of messages at the moment. Don't worry. Before the end of the week, you are going to get your free tickets. Don't worry at all. You can still invite people. Share the number. You're going to get in. Just put your mind at first. You will be accounted for. So, we've come to the end of today. Can I see your emojis? Wow. You are. Everybody will meet themselves. You are looking like... Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Thank you. Oh my goodness. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. You have my vision. Please, please, please, quickly say, thank you. I'm sorry, I can see some... Please, please, permit me to quickly appreciate our leaders who are here tonight. We really want to appreciate them, our leaders, extra-like governors and ambassadors who are here tonight. I can see a lot of our leaders are here. We do not take your presence for granted. Thank you so much. And God bless you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I appreciate you, my well-diamonds. Thank you for the government. Thank you. Thank you, ma. Thank you, ma. Thank you, ma. Thank you. God bless you, ma. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, ma. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. For those who will be interested in the event in October, I think we will start announcing it now so that you can start getting ready. Yes. And of course, for those who will be going to Bahamas. Because Debbie has a lot of guests to accommodate. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. We're looking forward to it. We're looking forward to laying the red carpet. Yeah. Did you hear that? Thank you so much. Dr. Nelly Doppos only just lay the red carpet. They actually, wherever I go, they meet me at the plane as I'm stepping out with drums. Wow. That is how detailed she is. Wow. So she understands the African and Nigerian culture very well. Yes. Thank you all. Thank you so much for joining. Thank you. Thank you for staying up to now. Wow. Only at Extra Lightwear. 22 hours looks like 20 minutes. Please give it up for yourself for staying around. Give it up for yourself. We really appreciate you. And we can't wait to see you at our July event at Balmoral Amari. Thank you so much, everybody. Thank you very much. We appreciate you. You're welcome. We give glory to God for the success of this. Yeah. We give glory all to all. We give glory back to God for making this a success. And he that has begun a good work in us by laying this foundation today, he will continue it to Jesus. Let's call us. Amen. Amen. Thank you. Good night. Good night. Love you. Love you. Love you. God bless you now. Good night, everybody. Good night. Love you all. Good night. Thank you. Good night. Thank you. Thank you. Good night. Good night. Good night. Thank you. Thank you all for joining. See you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Goodbye. Thank you. Thank you for joining us. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good night. God bless you. Thank you all. Thank you. Good night. Thank you.