Aranyavas farmstay Jaipur #farmstay & #natureretreat #incredibleindia #naturelovers #agritourism
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MqSgN5NvORE
Travel & Events
 Good evening, friends. All these days we've been doing the updates in the morning. So I thought, why not do it in the evening this time. So here we are at Aranevaas. Today is 18th September. After the monsoons, good monsoons, we've had lovely rains and the plants, trees, really got good nourishment. Here's our Shiv Mandir, Jai Bulanath. I'll walk you through the pathway. You can see the trees on both sides have really grown, come up well. That's a neat tree. That's one of the oldest trees here. About five trees which are the originals and rest, all of them have been planted by us. Here we are. Actually a bamboo tree. That's the Balaji Kamandar. This is Aranevaas. That's a car park. That's the play arena. You can see two kids from the neighbourhood having a game. That's a pathway. Bikes if one wants to ride. That's a villa where we have four rooms, two on the ground floor and two on the first floor. The rooms on the first floor have a balcony as well. In all the other rooms on the front, you can see there's a wide veranda. You can have your coffee, tea or just chat, chit chat. That's the dining area. It's open on all sides. It's hedges. It's a bit, small patch of grass, fodder for the cows. That's our natural pond. So we have created another patch here. Here we will be growing things that would be required in the kitchen. So this will be our kitchen garden. That's the kitchen. Now for our beautiful cows. So here another patch we are making here. This will be a herb patch for salad dressings and multiple things. This is again fodder patch. The cows meet Kanha. That's Nandi. That's Kanha. This is our latest addition. Radha Ma. That's Shiva. Shiva. That's Sitha Ma. Sitha Ma. Ram Ram Bulu Ram Ram Ram. That's Gopi. Gopi is a bit scared. She's just four or five days old now. Six days old. This is Savidribai. So they are tired outside right now because the weather is fine. And that's their inner sanctum. That's the banana circle. There is the wash area. And this is our Desi Chula and Cob oven. We're going to start working on the Cob oven soon. Okay. That's it for now. So I'll take you around the grow area tomorrow morning maybe. Thanks for watching. Bye-bye. Bye-bye. Thank you.