How to identify your soil type | Grow at Home | RHS
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mru1ElmG7pg
Howto & Style
 My name is Barney and I'm the horticultural educator here at Wisley Garden. Today we're going to learn a bit about soil types so that you can learn to get the best from your garden. In this video I will be advising you on how to identify your soil type. With very few exceptions such as epiphytes nearly all plants require soil. From the soil they will get water, nutrients, oxygen for their roots and anchorage into the soil. In order to identify your soil type we need to identify its texture which is the proportions of sand silt and clay in the soil, its structure how those particles interlock within the soil, the organic matter content, the pH how acid or alkaline it is which will all influence the nutrient content. The arrangement of particles in the soil for soil structure provide the characteristics for the root environment. Ideally you want your soil to be half solid particles and half spaces between particles so there's enough air and water for the roots to grow healthily. The particles that make up your soil consist of clay, sand and silt and a dominating soil particle will characterize your soil type. Clay particles are the smallest. Clay soils are moisture-attentive and rich in nutrients, however they tend to be poorly drained, they compact easily and when dry they shrink, when wetted again, they swell. Sandy soils, unlike clay, are very freely drained, they're easy to cultivate and they warm up quickly in the spring, however they tend to dry out in the summer and they're very poor at holding on to nutrients. Silty soils are generally fertile, moisture-attentive yet freely draining, however they do compact easily and they're prone to water and wind erosion. If your soil is a mixture of sand, silt and clay you'll have a loam. Loam soils combine the best of each of the soil particle qualities and they're generally very good for plant growth. You may also have a chalky soil, these are always alkaline, they tend to be very thin, freely draining and quite difficult to work with. Now we've learned about the different characteristics of soil types, it's time to take a pH test. pH testing is very important because it will tell you about the nutrient availability in your soil. These kits are available from garden centres or you can purchase them online and they allow you to do multiple tests. They come with universal indicator for pH test solution, a pot of barium sulphate which will help your clay particles to settle and a testing pot. It comes with a little spoon and you just need a couple of scoops of your soil sample. It's very important to take your soil sample from at least 10 centimetres depth. You will need one scoop of barium sulphate. Top up your testing pot with the universal indicator and give it a good shake and you will need to leave it for a few minutes to settle. After a few minutes come back to check your sample and you will see there's a layer of coloured liquid above the soil solids. This you can compare to a pH chart that comes with your kit and this one is I would say somewhere between 7 and 7.5 just slightly alkaline. This is very important because you'll find in the test kit advice on which plants grow at which pH and because it's slightly alkaline I know that ericaceous plants which means acid loving plants will not do well on this soil so already I'm going to start selecting suitable plants for my garden. As well as a soil pH test it is essential to undertake a texture test so you can identify which soil type you have. I'm going to do a soil texture test on a clay soil to find out just how much clay it contains. First part take a walnut size piece of soil and moisten and get it really nice and wet so the texture test is accurate. Can the soil easily be rolled into a ball? Yes very easy. Will it roll into a cylinder approximately 15 millimetres in diameter? Yes most definitely. Will the cylinder bend into a horseshoe shape without cracking? Yes. Will it form a ring without cracking? Yes. Does it feel gritty? It does. I can feel sand grains between my fingers which means that it is a sandy clay. It might surprise you, your clay may not be quite as clayish as you expect. Once you've identified your soil texture type and its pH you can look up which plants are suitable for your garden. If you want more information on soil pH testing and soil texture testing have a look on the RHS website. whileister means perfectly. about