Creating Abundance in an Arid Climate
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mS5RTgPiR4k
People & Blogs
 Hey, hey, it's Shea Keister and I'm your host and the founder of Casual Cattle Conversations, a global rancher education company that strives to bring honest thoughts and conversations from ranchers and leaders to other ranchers. Be sure to follow Cattle Convos on social media to have more in-depth conversations around the ranching business and lifestyle brought to you. If you are ready to take your operation to the next level and improve your lifestyle too, send me a message about my Rancher Mind group. Rancher Minds are monthly roundtable discussions for ranchers to learn from peers and experts and leave the call with actionable advice to make changes on their own operations. With that, let's see who our guest is today and what experience and advice they have to offer you to improve your own operation. Well, thank you for joining me today. I'm excited to have you on the show. I know this is our first time talking, but I have visited with your brother a little bit. So to start off, would you really share what your background in the ranching space is and how you got started? Thank you for having me, Shea. Basically, I'm a fifth generation cattle ranching in the northern part of Chihuahua, Mexico. Our family moved here in the late 1800s, early 1900s. We've been ranching in this area ever since, going on almost 100 years now. But my personal background, while I was born at the ranch, raised at the ranch, basically this is all I know. When I first started, actually managing the ranch, I was fresh out of high school. I mean, it hasn't been that long. I didn't go to college. I didn't really want to go to college. So, well, the ranch was the second best thing to do. So, I started managing the ranch in 2016. I'm only 24 years old. And since then, we've started with more intensive grazing practices, more regenerative grazing practices here at the ranch. And we've been able to maximize our profits by doing so. How has the conditions of your pastures changed with these holistic approaches? Well, we've been able to increase our carrying capacity by three times, three times as much. So, I mean, that gives you an idea of the quality of forage we have now. We don't give any protein. I mean, it's strictly grass-fed beef. I mean, we don't give any other type of forage, just the grass that we grow. During the winter, we graze year-round. And our area is a semi-arid area. We get from anywhere from 15 to 18 inches of rain a year. But we do have some drought years. Like in 2020, we got four inches of rain. And we could still double our carrying capacity without having that much rain. So, as far as our pastures, I mean, you can see the difference in a heartbeat. And, well, the numbers are there to show that this type of management actually works. And I mean, for a ranch in this area to run as much cattle as we do, it's, I mean, it's, it's one, one in a hundred. So, I mean, that's our, we've seen the benefits. So, what is your, like, stocking right now? Or what does your carrying capacity look like? Now that you, you said you've increased the amount of cattle you can run by three times. So, what does that look like for you? In this area, people usually run from 12 hectares, 12 to 15 hectares per cow per year. We use the metric system in Mexico. Acres would be about roughly 20 acres per cow per year. And we're running three hectares per cow per year, which is roughly about seven acres per cow per year. Wow. So, what, what are your forage types there? What are some of those native forages? Uh, we, we, mostly we have perennial grasses, blue grama, black grama, red grama. There's, we, we've counted up to 20 different types of species here at the, at the ranch. I mean, they're all mostly all perennials. We have very, very little annuals. Um, the high quality forages that keep their protein year round and, and with the right rest period, it, it really helps the cattle eat a better diet. Uh, when, when, when you have, uh, I mean, stockpiled forages, it, it helps their nutrition like you can imagine. So there are multiple different ways to implement regenerative practices when you look at grazing. What models are you looking at? Um, I'm sure you've kind of adapted it to your own ranch and what works as many people do, but really when you say you are implementing regenerative practices, what does that look like for you on a daily basis? Um, here at the ranch, we have over 500 paddocks, uh, give or take the five, all those 500 paddocks, we, we, we make them a year round with poly wire. Everything we use is portable. So it has our, our, our infrastructure is so portable. We can pick up and move wherever we want and at a very low cost. So we build over 500 paddocks a year. We move daily. Sometimes we move even four or five times a day. So it's highly intensive so we can get the best out of the, out of our forage, uh, use it properly and, and rest it properly also. So out of those 500 paddocks, um, we have, uh, a rotation of about 425 days of rest per paddock. So, I mean, our per paddock, we have a, uh, a time period. We use it maybe six hours per, for every 420 days. So our, our rest period is, is, is, is what's making this work. Wow. So you talked about how you're constantly on the move, moving cattle. How many employees, how many people do you have working on your operation to manage this workload then? Um, it's only me and I have a one hired hand, uh, but other than that, we're running, I mean, in between me and my hired help, we're running over 500 cows and, and we have about 200 stockers here at the ranch right now. So there's a, there's, there's quite a bit of work, but I mean, when, when you're organized and since you move them every single day, it cuts down on your, on, on basically, uh, checking the cattle health wise, since you see them every day, I mean, it, it, it simplifies everything. Most people think because of moving once a day, it's going to be a lot more difficult, but honestly, it, it's a lot simpler than moving, moving every 15 days or every 20 days. Um, and, and your paddocks are a lot smaller. So it's easy to get around your paddocks with poly wire, uh, and in a day and, and just, just keep it portable, keep it simple. And well, I don't have that much help, but, uh, we have, uh, we have a well-organized, uh, ranch, well-fueled ranch, I guess. So what are some processes you've implemented to make putting up that poly wire faster, easier, just make the whole process more efficient? Um, what, what we usually do is, is make, uh, instead of having like your typical wagon wheel or, or having, uh, something permanent, uh, basically we go with the, what the, our land gives us. So all our, our, all our fences go off of the terrain. Um, most of our, our ranch is flat. So basically we just build, uh, small squares and then we have water in every single paddock. So the water, it's all piped. We have, uh, a pipeline, a two inch pipeline that goes throughout the ranch. And from there, when we're grazing the animals, we can connect, uh, our portable water trough to, to wherever we need, wherever we need the pipe, the water for cattle. So with that, you know, do you do any like, you know, lease out any recreation activities on the ranch, or do anything on that front, um, in addition to this? Or do you just, I mean, is it just, are you a commercial operation? What does that look like for you guys? Uh, basically it's, it's a commercial operation. What we do, what, uh, basically it's cow calf. And, um, once we wean our calves, we export them to the U.S. Uh, so we export live cattle to the U.S. Other recreational, uh, activities we do, there's a little bit of hunting. I mean, white tail hunting, uh, uh, turkeys. Um, but other than that, it's, it's purely just cow calf. So we might run a little stalkers here and there, but, um, basically just cow calf. Okay. So have these grazing practices benefited, have you seen a large benefit in the amount of wildlife present, um, the availability of hunting on your ranch? Yeah, for sure. I mean, what, what's happening, we're basically building a, a microclimate here at the, at the ranch that is helping, is helping us, uh, with all types of wildlife, biodiversity. Um, uh, we're, we also work with a lot of conservation services, uh, basically any migratory birds that come to our ranch, it's, it's a conservation. So we, we can, uh, take care of, of, of those animals that, that need, need the habitat. And, uh, we've been working with, uh, the Rocky Mountain Bird Conservancy for the past four years, I think. And, uh, basically what they do is take care of, if all the migratory bird species that come from, from the Rockies down to, uh, down to Mexico. And, uh, that's, that's a big part of our, our, our goal here at the ranch to, to at least leave what, what we have better than we, than when we got in. I think that's an awesome point to leave things better than when you found them and something a lot of ranchers try to do. So with that, kind of looking back at, you know, the types of practices you're using, you know, what resources do you go to, to continue your learning? You know, what did that process look like as you got started? Who did you turn to for advice? Uh, first I, I turned to my dad, obviously he, he, uh, he was, uh, when, when the holistic management movement, uh, came to Mexico, he was one of the first pioneers. So, uh, I turned to my dad a lot and, and, uh, also the Savory Institute helps a lot and, um, Ranching for Profit. I'm a, I love, uh, ex-alumni from Ranching for Profit, which it help, helps a lot when you're trying to run a business. Uh, well, it's, it's, it's, you're running a business off of what nature gives you. Um, and, and you're trying to manage, you're trying to manage resources that, that, that can be, be bettered, uh, improved. Um, but knowing how to do it is, is key. And I mean, here, uh, fortunately here in Mexico and Chihuahua, we're, there's quite a, quite a few people that are practicing, uh, regenerative agriculture, regenerative ranching, whatever you want to call it. There's a lot of people here in Chihuahua in my state that, uh, that are actually doing it. And basically what we, we, we all have a group chat and we just bounce ideas off of each other. But, um, any, any type of thing you want to learn, uh, I highly recommend to, to take courses and, and, and learn about it. Well, that's exciting. So what mindset do ranchers need to have when they are starting to get into regenerative grazing and really embrace that style of ranch management? I think they need to change the paradigm first. I mean, there's a lot of, uh, misconceptions of ranching, especially here in, in Chihuahua. A lot of people think it's too dry. It can't be done here. Um, but they're just all paradigms. You need to, you need to change. And, and once, once you start actually, uh, moving daily and get the hang of it, well, there's no better way to actually do it than doing it. And, and I mean, your failures are going to be, uh, they're going to be, um, what's it called? They're going to be, it's going to be like your school. I mean, it's going to teach you how, what not to do. Um, but, uh, just changing your paradigms the way you think is, it helps, has, has a lot to do with, uh, running a ranch this, this way. Well, awesome. Do you have any last advice for those who are interested in improving their grazing methods or any last comments you'd like to share before we finish up today? Uh, yeah. I mean, a lot of people get stuck on, on, yeah, I want to do the change and, but they don't know how to start the change. Um, I would recommend getting, getting a consultant, having someone consult you first. So, so you don't make the same mistakes like I did or, or, or anyone else did. And, uh, yeah, some people might say the consultants are, are, are expensive or they charge too much, but he'll give you a helping hand once you start. And then once you're, once you have a consultant, then I, I highly recommend, uh, uh, keeping everything portable. I mean, there's no sense in, in dumping a bunch of money when, when you can actually do it with portable polywire, portable posts. Um, so, so you're gonna basically be changing one thing for another. You're gonna be changing sweat for, for an improvement or, or changing money for, for infrastructure. So I, I highly recommend just, uh, making everything portable. Uh, the more portable you have it, the more flexibility you have to, to graze wherever you can or, or, or in points of opportunity throughout your ranch. Um, but other than that, I mean, just, it's time to change the way we think, and it's time to change the way we ranch. Well, awesome. Thank you very much for joining me today. I'm excited to share this with my audience and appreciate all that you had to share. Thank you for having me, Shane. And that's a wrap on that one. Be sure to let me know your thoughts on the episode. And if you have any further questions around the topic, take care and have a great day.