Preview of Northeast North Dakota-Northwest Minnesota Online Farm Auction Tomorrow 5/11/20
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mtnnfs50CTQ
Entertainment
 Hey Pete, Dennis Bieliski here talking to you about an interesting auction that we've got coming up. We're calling it the Northeast North Dakota Northwest Minnesota Farmers Auction. We've got a lot of items from throughout our region up here on this auction. Put together an online collaborative auction. And you know we've got so many good and unique items on here we wanted to make sure that we got the word out to you and some of your visitors. Our auction starts with an 8530 John Deere mechanical front tractor, IVT and ILS. Got a DT180 Agco tractor, 2005 model with very low hours. Super clean tractor with guidance and all loaded up. 7240 mechanical front tractor, 9370 Case IH four wheel drive with a 24 speed. Big selection of other tractors including a 7200 John Deere with a loader and so many others. We've got some other interesting items on this auction we want to make sure people know about. There's a Pickett Double Master edible bean combine that one of my neighbors down the road here bought brand spanking new in 2000. Done very low acres. We've got a 9750 STS that's a single owner combine and a 35 foot Mac Don draper head. Got a beautiful selection of semis and trailers. We've got some very nice day cabs. Some extremely clean Timty Ag Hopper trailers. Along with a good selection of older tractors, other harvest equipment, many spring planting items, a good line of tillage and lots of other trucks. We've got a couple of diesel tri-axle trucks. We've got some very nice gas tandem trucks and a lot of other interesting items on this auction. It's an auction that a lot of folks are going to want to take a look at. There's a lot of equipment that they can still use as we're coming into the spring season. So that's the Northeast North Dakota Northwest Minnesota Farmers Auction. The auction opens on the 5th of May and closes on the 11th. It has a lot of good items in store for people that want to check it out. And we'll hope to see them at the auction on the computer. Your next piece of equipment is on MachineryPete.com. Search equipment from dealerships across the country to find what you're looking for. Only on MachineryPete.com. For aえば, this is a Research Boat, to learn how. What money is going to be called? An