The Nuances of Farm Marketing & Finance with Dr. Allen Williams
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mttvlLV_kTI
Nonprofits & Activism
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Our next speaker, Dr. Allen Williams. And this is the other topic that was really requested from last year on marketing. So the nuances of marketing and finance. Dr. Allen. Come on out and close again. Yep, got me off. There we go. There we go. Okay, so we're going to talk about marketing and economics this afternoon. And I'm going to start with this by sharing with you what we do. Now, please, no intents and purposes here to tell you, you've got to do what we do. Okay? That's not what I'm trying to insinuate here. I just simply am starting out by sharing what we do so that you can see, you know, what types of things are possible and how we do it. So first of all, we have quite a few different enterprises on our farms. And I said yesterday and the day before, you know, you heard me say that if you've got an acre, you should never have just a single revenue stream for that acre. You should have multiple revenue streams every year for every acre. And that's one of the core tenets of our farming operations. We think that way and we operate that way. So I'm going to share with you a lot of the different enterprises that we do. So we do a lot of ranching and grass finishing. And we grass finish at scale, we harvest at scale. So we, and in our cattle operations, we do everything from cow-calf to seed stock all the way through the finishing. So we run the gamut. So we have multiple enterprises. So the cow-calf enterprise is managed as a completely separate accounting enterprise versus the finishing enterprise. Okay? So on our books, we sell ourselves feeder calves from the cow-calf operation. And then in terms of us determining profitability of the cow-calf operation, it is based on the price that we sell feeder calves to ourselves for. Okay? But we can't cheat on that. So we sell our feeder calves to our finishing operation for the true value. Whatever the true market value is for grass-fed qualified feeder calves, that's what we sell them to our finishing operation for. Okay? Now the reason I'm sharing all of this is because if you're going to have multiple enterprises, I strongly, strongly encourage you to operate them as separate enterprises and orient your accounting that way. Way too many farmers and ranchers just slump everything together and they have no way of knowing whether any individual enterprise is actually making money or not. They cannot identify their strengths and weaknesses. And for way too many farmers and ranchers, what is their principal accounting method? Schedule F. Okay? There's schedule F. That's about the worst type of determinant you can have in deciding whether you made a profit or a loss for the year. So, again, everything is a separate enterprise even within the cattle operation. They're split like that. We do a lot of pasture pigs. And we do these at scale. And we do this far to finish. Okay? So, just like with the beef cattle operation, cow-calf to finish. And our pasture pork operation, it is sparrow to finish. And on our pigs, we're running them through pretty much every type of landscape that we have. At some point in the year, they're going to hit every type of landscape. So, that means true pasture. They're going to be on true pasture just like the cattle and sheep are out there in the open fields. And they do a lot of foraging, by the way. They move around quite a bit. We also will put them into annual fields and forage them through annual fields. And then we run them through our woods. And we love to run them through the woods for a multiplicity of reasons. First of all, pigs are little bulldozers. So, when I have pigs in the woods, I've got a whole bunch of little bulldozers in those woods. They, in particularly, anywhere that we have like pine thickets or anything that's thick and choked, the first species I'm going to put in there, I open that up and then create grazing, silver pasture grazing for larger species like the sheep and the cattle or the pigs. They do just a fabulous job of taking care of all that brush, all that junk in there, opening the dog things that you couldn't see through all of a sudden. You can see all the way through them. And then with all of their rooting and everything else, they stimulate that seed hike so that you can get a lot of new growth. So, the other thing that I want you to understand is that every species that we have is not just there to be a revenue-generating tool. They are there for that and they're expected to make money for us. But, they are also a tool that we use to build soil, to build biology, to landscape. Okay? So, every livestock species has a multi-purpose for us. They are a landscaping and soil-building tool as well as a revenue-generating tool. You can see them foraging out here. Again, they actually are very, very happy when you turn them into these fields like this. You know, and like I said, they forage very, very readily. We do a lot of pasture land. Hair sheep in our country, the deep south, we're not even going to think about wool sheep. It's always going to be hair sheep. So, we do hair sheep. And, I'll just briefly mention on the back to the cattle. And again, I'll tell you the breeds we use not to tell you these are the breeds you need to use. You use what works within your context. Okay? I'm just sharing with you what works for us. So, in our cattle, we have two dominant crosses. We have a south pole red angus cross. And we do also maintain a seed stock south pole herd. We have south pole red angus cross. And then we also have piney woods red angus crosses. So, they work very, very well for us in our deep south hot humid environment. All the pigs, most of our pigs are in a Tam, Burke, Old Spot mix. Okay? So, that's what we use predominantly on our pigs. On our sheep, we've got basically a catawg base. And we also have a seed stock Australian white flock. And so, we're crossing the tops with the Australian whites. And that's working, again, very well for us. Okay? With what we're doing. We're doing a lot of things. It's giving us the hardiness that we need. You know, in sheep, there's two things. And the wild animals I'm looking for. One is resistance to parasites. And the other is no foot problems. Right? We don't want to treat them. And we certainly don't want to be trimming feet. And we're not going to do that. So, you know, with our sheep, we look for that. And we've got to have the performance and the yield out of it and the end product quality. So, that cross gives us all of that that we need. We manage our sheep. And again, our sheep are a tool like everything else. Sometimes, they're running with the cattle. Other times, they're separate because I want to use them to do something somewhere else. So, at times of the year, they're running with our main cow herd. And other times, they're running on their own. So, it's a mix. We like to run our sheep under a single strand of polywire. I don't want to put up two strands, three strands, or more for my sheep. Okay? So, we train them to a single strand of polywire. That's how we run them. What you see here in this picture right here, they're under a single strand of polywire. We run a lot of pastured layers, anywhere from 6,000 to 8,000 laying hens on average. And thousands of broilers every year. So, we do a lot of broilers. We do a lot of layers. On the layers, we've pretty much settled in on the iso-browns. On the iso-browns, that's the breed of choice that we use. They're very hardy. They're very moderate sized bird. I don't want too big of a laying hen. They eat way too much feed. And they don't forage as well. So, I want birds that forage extremely well. And, you know, but still have a really good lay rate. And they're very hardy and have good longevity. And we have found that with, you know, works pretty well for us with those iso-browns. We did have other breeds that we used for a while. And one of them was the barn velvet. You'll probably see some of those in a picture here in just a moment. We used no electric fencing anymore, electric net fencing for our chickens. And as you can see here, they're just out roaming. Each one of these houses that you see here, they're moved every day to every two days. They're on skids. There's a thousand birds per house. Okay? And in those houses are the nest box, nipple-wide warmers, and feeders, self-feeders. Now, we're cheap. Okay? So, we don't go buy feeders. We take actotes. Again, a dime a dozen. I can pick them up anywhere I want to for free. Used actotes. We use actotes and make our own self-feeders out of those. Work extremely well. And we just found them in the middle of each house. Okay? That's all we have to do. Actually, I should have put a picture in here then. But actually, what we do, so we run PVC piping up through the roof of the house. And all we got to do is pull our auger feed wagon out there and auger in to refill those. Okay? Typically, we can run about four days worth of feed in those toads before we have to refill. So, we only refill about once every four days. Doing that. Okay? But what we do use with our chickens are guardian dogs. Okay? You see one up there. These are three gentlemen that were visiting and touring with us from Louisiana. And I'll talk about that in a moment. We actually have people touring our farms literally every single week of the year. And most of the time, multiple times a week. And it actually is pretty rare that we don't have visitors to the farms almost every single day. So, we welcome people onto our farms. You know, we never turn people away. So, we're always showing people around. But the guardian dogs work very well. So, we have multiple guardian dogs in with the sheep. Well, yeah, with the sheep, but with the chickens. And they protect the chickens against the shark tooth. You know, the shark tooth are things like your bot cat, your coyote, your fox, your raccoons, all that. And they also protect them against the raptors. We have a lot of hawks and we have a lot of bald eagles. And guardian dogs will keep the raptors from taking any chickens as well. They'll look up. They'll see a hawk. They'll see an eagle. And the moment they see one, they are barking at them. And if they see one, they'll fly off and land in the tree over there, overlooking the chickens. They're making a beeline to them. And they'll make them leave that tree and fly off. So, the guardian dogs are really good. The other thing about the guardian dogs, they did this themselves. Obviously, there's no way for us to have done this. They assigned themselves guard duty. Okay? They know when they're on and when they're off. And they know who's on and who's off. And we have a couple of our guardian dogs that when they're off duty, here they come trotting up to the shop. Okay? And we know when we see them like Ella, when we see Ella coming up to the shop, oh, she's off. Okay? And she'll stay in the shop. And then all of a sudden, a few hours later, she'll get up and she'll go back to the check-off. Now, it's on again. You know? So, the dogs assigned themselves guardian duty. These are some of the barn vailers. We have very few of these anymore. We'll sort of talk about. But, you know, there's multiple ways you can do this. These are, does anybody know what this used to be? Those are all cotton wagons. Okay? So, we've taken all cotton wagons. We can pick them up for 100, 200 bucks a piece. And with less than 1500 all in, turn them into a 500 to 600 bird house. Okay? So, a very cheap way to, you know, to make the difference. To make more housing for our laying hens. There you see some more of our, that's taint there. Okay? So, you see some more of our guardian dogs. And again, just a picture of the, you know, the chicken tractor made out of a cotton wagon. We also do turkeys on pasture. Turkeys are actually using as here. We all start out of a stadion relative. Okay? Lament work on thelden. Call that f espera water 길vy up. And if you want to go, they actually do some more little anglers they'll be coming back. Oh, he, he later you finally looked at home where the music is. Oh, yeah, he's done. And there you already looked at that. Okay? That let's try to answer even though. He hasn't had that idea. Okay? And I got an idea. Let's try to Ec kunna. I got to try and get out what, but I opened it and it's basically then just a big sir. How you look up? But how you need the Sharon in? Here's the uh, but what it looked. You know, the chicken tractor made out of a cotton wagon. We also do turkeys on pasture. Turkeys are actually pretty easy to do on pasture. And we do this seasonally. So we hatch in May and then finish out through the summer, early fall, start harvesting in October. So we're targeting the holiday season with our turkeys. And Thanksgiving through Christmas. And we always sell out every year on turkeys. There's never a problem with selling turkeys. And we get an average of about $100 per herd. It's what we sell these for. About $100 per herd. And nobody has a problem paying that. Which averages out to about $5 a pound. Okay. In dressed weight. $5 a pound retail sale in dressed weight. So the turkeys are a real good revenue stream for us. Now, I have to tell you this quick little story though that involves my mother-in-law. So yeah, a mother-in-law story. But many years ago when I first got married, my wife comes from a fairly large family. I had a lot of siblings and we used to always go to my in-law's house for Thanksgiving. And my mother-in-law liked to cook the biggest turkey she could cook to feed all of those kids. Right? So, and this was, like I said, many years ago before we started raising turkeys. So she would go to the grocery store to try to pick out the biggest turkey she could find. And she would go to the turkey bin there. And she didn't trust the weight, the retail weight printed on the package. So she had to lift it. She called it hefting the turkeys. So she had to heft the turkeys to see how heavy they really were. So one year before Thanksgiving, she was there at the grocery store and she picked the turkey up out of the bin. You know, felt it and set it aside. She reached down and picked another and set it aside. She kept doing that until she got to the very last bird. And all the time she was doing this, there was a stock boy standing over there watching her wondering, what the heck is this crazy lady doing? You know, and so she happened to notice it standing over there. And she got to the last bird and she looked over at him and she said, son, did these turkeys get any bigger? And he looked at her and said, no, ma'am, they're dead. This is our egg processing room at the farm. We can process about five of that machine that you see here. So it's automated, robotic, conveyor belt, all that, canber up here. It runs through this apparatus here. So that's your cleaning brushes, your dryers. It has a rail scale. And then the parts are obstructed in the view here. And it has kicker arms, robotic kicker arms after it comes off the rail scale that kicks the eggs according to size into the various trays here for packaging. We can process about 5,000 eggs an hour. Two people is all it takes to process about 5,000 eggs an hour of that machine. So we have one person up front basically loading and canning the eggs, picking any cracks or blood spots off of there. And then one person in the back, putting them in the parts. Okay? So that's our egg room. So we do have our own USDA poultry processing. So we did invest in this. And this has been a very, very good investment for us because it has allowed us to greatly grow the poultry business. And we can process any, you know, chickens, turkeys, ducks, geese, doesn't matter. Any type of poultry we can process through here. And so, so it, we also do some custom processing for others as well as our own birds. So that has been a very good investment. So we do a lot of grass-fed beef. This is what our, this is our beef. This is what our beef looks like. So it's very, very well marbled, very well finished. We do not believe in beef that is not finished. Okay? We want highly finished beef. And we want this on a very consistent basis. So again, these are examples of our beef, what it looks like. You can see that we've got high levels of marbling in our cuts. And we do average. So we do finish every, every week of the year. Okay? So we're not seasonal finishers. We finish every single week of the year and harvest every week. And we're averaging week in and week out, year in and year out, 85% plus USDA choice of prime. And that is with an official USDA. This is not a guesstimate grade or a house grade. This is actual USDA federal grade applying these grades. So here are some of the things that we have found. We get far better and far more consistent finishing year round with high diversity pastures. Remember what I told you yesterday? I documented more than 140 different plant species in our pastures. We have found that the more diversity we have, the less issues we have with finishing or with consistency of finishing or anything like that. Where people have their most issues with grass finishing is with low diversity systems. Okay? Low diversity systems. You pretty much eradicate all of the common issues that most people experience when you have a much more high diversity system. Here's the other thing with high diversity systems. We never have any taste or flavor issues. None. As a matter of fact, it's the opposite. So we not only sell to regular consumer, but we sell to a lot of fine dining restaurants. And our chefs tell us over and over and over again that our beef has this incredibly robust flavor. The flavor complex is just really good. They love it because they don't have to marinate. They don't have to put in sauces, a lot of seasonings. It's really simple for our beef. Salt and pepper and that's it. Don't add anything else or now you're masking the real complexity of the flavor profile. So they actually like it. Plus, they like the fact that there's consistency in the ability to cook and prepare. Diversity, and we've proven this with our research with Dr. Stefan Van Vliet and his team. Diversity in what they're eating out there in the finishing pastures creates significantly greater phytonutrient profiles in the end product. So our customers are also getting far greater nutrient density. And we really don't have to worry about the time of year because we have so much diversity in the pastures that individual plant species maturity is not an issue. That's another benefit of diversity. Yeah, I'm going to have some grasses that are mature and the quality has dropped quite a bit. Absolutely. But we got a whole bunch of other stuff that is really good. All right? So we've got this, when you have that high level diversity, you've got stuff at all stages. So you greatly expand the period of time of the year and you've got really, really high quality grazing. And again, certain species are not going to be high quality, but others are. So some of our pork, again, we want the pork very well marbled. We get our pigs up to about 320 pounds before we harvest them. So we really like that heavier pig and we like that added maturity for that complex flavor profile in the pigs. We also do extensive market gardens. We have quite a few, we call them blocks, outside blocks that we plant, as well as high tunnels. So we run six high tunnels and the blocks that we produce year round. So we've got something growing year round. In between the cash crop, we always have a complex cover crop. And then we'll get either a sheep or a poultry impact on that complex cover crop before we go back with the cash crop. We are no-till in our gardens. So everything is no-till. And we use zero chemicals of any kind. Okay? So no chemicals, no synthetic fertility at all. And it's all no-till. The way, when we have the cover crops in there, what we do is we take silage tarps. When we get ready to prepare it for planting in the next cash crop, we take silage tarps, we tarp it, and it degrades it. The earthworms just explode up underneath there. And after a period of days, it's completely degraded. What was growing there, you lift the tarp up, take it off. Very easy to plant no-till into it at that point. And the earthworms have done a tremendous job of really aerating that soil, degrading that dead plant residue, breaking it down further, and fertilizing it, adding additional fertility to it. We also, we use what we call triads. So when we plant any crop, cash crop, a vegetable, or an herb, we plant in trees. So if we plant a roll of tomatoes, as an example, if we're planting tomatoes, okay, then we'll also plant an herb on one side and probably a leafy green on the other, like basil here, tomatoes in the middle, basil here, red leaf lettuce over here. So we never plant just a single species. That helps to confuse pests and to ward off fumble disease. We have a thought, because we use no chemicals or anything like that, we're not applying chemicals to give away pests or fumble disease. So we rely on biological control of all that. So using a triad, we're planting works very, very well. And we also plant, you see a lot of flowering species. We plant a lot of flowering species that attract beneficial insects in and take care of eating pest insects that might want to prey on our vegetables and our herbs. We do a lot of bees. We have 400 plus beehives out. We scatter these around across the farms. So honey is a really big crop for us. We're, we're marketing a quart at $20, a pint at $10, and we sell the honey out. So that, that's a really big, really big item for us in terms of sales. We do agritourism. So we do, we do some glamping. Yeah, and that's very popular. And then we have Airbnb properties. So we have purchased old, old homes and old properties that we have renovated, refurbished, and do Airbnb. So this is an 1848 property here that stays rented out pretty regularly. The building you see here is in downtown Marion on the square. It's an old bank building. We bought the whole building. The bottom part, we have a commercial kitchen, and this is our event center. So when we host workshops, things like that, that's our event center. Up top is a three bedroom, three bath, fully furnished living, kitchen, everything else apartment. And that stays rented out on Airbnb. For whatever reason, that one's really, really popular. And then this is a 1858 home that we purchased and renovated as well. This has been very popular. We also have a lot of people that use this for weddings. So again, multipurpose, multi-use. So just the interior of that one. So other enterprises. So we have timber. We do woodland grazing or silvopasture grazing. We grow some other specialty crops beyond our vegetables and herbs. We grow things like purple straw wheat, specialty corns, indigo, ginseng, mushrooms, turmeric, things like that. We do raise and sell beef and lamb seed stock and replace with heifers. We have recreational income. We have excellent hunting. So we do dove hunting, quail hunting, deer, turkey, all of that. So we have pretty good hunting income. We have fishing income. We've got 30 plus different lakes and bonds that are well stocked. We have some fishing income and then agritourism. We do producer and consumer workshops that they pay to come to. So these are all paid workshops generating revenue for the farm. And we do ecosystem tours and workshops. So for instance, in one of those, we do a wild food foraging. And it's amazing how many people come in to do wild food foraging. They love it. So we take them through the fields, through the woods, all of that. And they want to know what all is edible out here. What can we eat? And that just blows them away. Okay? How much there really is to eat out here. So that's a big deal. Another big one is bird watching. You know people pay to bird watch. Okay? And because of our regenerative practices, we have drawn in a lot, a lot of birds and many different species of birds. Some of them that you don't see a lot of anymore. And so we have people coming in that will pay for birds. So never underestimate anything. And I'll tell you another quick little story with this. Okay? On our farm tours, we do a lot of, we give them a very sensory experience. And we actually, because we sell a lot of restaurants, we host groups of chefs on some of these tours. And the chefs really love to get in the dirt and do the shovel test and the smell. And they'll graze as they go through our pastures, pluck plants and put them in their mouth. They'll do the same thing in our gardens and all that. So we had a group of chefs out there one day on a tour. And we were going through our pastures and they were plucking things and scrunching them up and smelling them and then putting them in their mouths. And one of them grabbed some dog fennel. Okay? And he took it and scrunched it up a little bit and smelled it. And he said, hmm, man, this smells really good. He said, what is this? And I didn't want to use the term dog, so I just said, well, it's a type of fennel. It's a wild fennel. And I said, really? He said, I think I could use this as a seasoning, an herbal seasoning in my restaurant. And he put it in his mouth and tasted it. He said, man, absolutely I could use this. This would be great for seasoning meats. And he said, can I get this? And I said, well, it's very rare, extremely hard to grow, but I think we can for about $20 a pound. Okay? So never overlook anything. You have more revenue streams than you think you have. All right? So markets, who do we sell to? We sell to restaurants. We sell to select distributors. And when I say that, I'm not talking about the Cisco's and the Airparks and U.S. Food Service. Okay? I'm talking about local and regional distributors that are oriented to our type of product. We do a lot of e-commerce sales. People order over the internet. We pick and pack and ship. Okay? We do a lot of CSA sales. So we have our own CSA. So we market through there. We market through farmers markets. We have some very good farmers markets that are not that far from us that we participate in. We have a food truck with a licensed commercial kitchen. So this food truck actually makes us quite a bit of money. And it's been another very good investment. We run refrigerated spreader vans to do delivery to restaurants and home delivery within certain areas. So the areas that we're delivering to restaurants, we actually also do right to your door home delivery. And those as well. That's worked real well for us. We gather a lot of customer contact and relationships through the farm tours and workshops. Again, it's amazing. If you can get them on your farm and you can get them digging in the soil and seeing all the insects and the birds and everything else, the plant species diversity, they want to buy from you at that point. Okay? So it's critical to get them there to show them this. It's amazing. Guys, as many farmers and ranchers as we teach, the truth is, it's these consumers, the non-farmers, the non-ranchers, and even the kids that get it a lot quicker and easier than the darn farmers do. The farmers want to fight it. Right? They want to fight all of this. No, that can't be right. But everybody else that comes in, they get it like that. And what do you think is the first question they ask us relative to regenerative agriculture? Non-farmers, a regular consumer, what's the first question they ask us? Farmers get farm. Yes. Farm. All farmers doing this. We don't understand. So if you think there's not a market out there for you, that's a proof positive right there. Okay? It's there. But get them there. Now, the other thing, never, ever, ever, ever miss an opportunity to put your food in their mouths. Ever. Okay? How do you sell food? Put it in their mouths. Don't tell them all about it. Put it in their mouths. Then when they go, wow, this is good. They just open the door for you to walk through and then tell them about it. But the first way people judge food is through what? How it tastes. Okay? So anytime we have people on the farm, they get fed. Period. Never, ever, don't feed people when they come to the farm. You want to sell a lot of products, feed them. Okay? We do have a retail store as well. We participate in a lot of events where we can cook and sell the product. We obviously, and not me personally, but I'm not on Facebook personally. I'm not on Instagram personally or any of this other social media personally. So you're not going to find me there. But you'll find our farms. You'll find Understanding Act, Soul Health Academy, all that. I don't manage that because I'm not smart enough for us to manage that. Okay? So we have others that manage that for us and they do it very well. And a well designer, Russ talked about this. But a good website, a good functional website. Okay? We're running through some numbers here. All right? I'm going to give you our real numbers. We're not afraid to share this. So our average wide weight on steer ready to harvest is going to, that's going to great choice enough. It's going to be about 1200 pounds. Because we get them really finished, we average, and again, I got the numbers here folks, the data for years and years to prove this. We average 61% dressing person. Now, way too many that are doing grass fed are dressing out at 52, 53, 55. We're dressing out at 61 because we get them really finished. That'll give us an average of about 732 pound hanging weight, hot carpets weight. Our retail yields will be 65 or whatever we actually usually average, or better than that, but I'm going to use 65 here. So 65% times that hot weight gives us 475 pounds of retail yield to sell. But on top of that, we have bone. Okay? And we sell it. We sell that for 60, or we have about 60 pounds per hour that we can sell the bone. Organ beans, about 18 pounds per hour that we can sell. Do not, do not let these things be throw away for you. Okay? That's real value, and I'm getting ready to show you how much value that is. Don't let this stuff be throw away. So, our cost, if we know these, we run these numbers every day, our cost from live animal birth to harvest is $1,521 for fat steering. Okay? That's what cost to get them from birth all the way to harvest, $1,521. Slower and fab, $825 per head. All the way to the box, all the way to full fit and finish portion cut, everything else. Transport cost, $70 a head. We get them to the plant and the meat back to us. Okay? Package feed, cold storage, shipping, sales, and market, $645 a head. You think this stuff is cheap? No, it's not. You've got to know your real cost. Know your cost. Okay? So, what are our total costs in every steer that we harvest? $3,061. Boom. That's what we pay to get them all the way to harvest. Okay? We're pretty darn good at this. We've done it a long time. And if you're doing it significantly cheaper than that, I want to talk to you. And I want to see your numbers, your real numbers. Okay? Because I doubt you're doing it significantly cheaper than that in real life. Now, here we go. So, we're going to average a minimum of $8 a pound across the whole cart. Minimum of $8 a pound. We've got 475 pounds of that to sell. Not counting the bone, bone, organ meats, and all that. So, that means we're grossing about $3,800 a head. About $3,800 a head. But, I've got bone, I've got organs, and we also do a pet food. If we put in fat, trim, organ meats on the left. Okay? That brings in an average of about another $320 a head. So, our total retail sales per animal are $4120. That gives us a net profit of $1,059 a head. Okay? So, that's what we're doing there on beef. Now, here's how we do enterprise allocation. Okay? So, the finishing company sells to the marketing company. And, oh, by the way, if you are selling food, if you are selling food, not live animals or whatever, but you're selling food, you better far and well have a separate LLC to do that. Never, ever, ever sell your food under your farm LLC. Core mistake. Core mistake. You just put your entire enterprise in the way of liability. Okay? Sell it to your marketing company and your marketing company sells the food. Do not make the mistake of not doing that. It's so cheap and easy to set up separate LLCs and to provide yourself that measure of protection. Right? So, we sell our finishing company, sells our marketing company, these animals at a harvest ready weight, light weight, or a dress for me, excuse me, of $260 a pound on a road. So, our finishing company gets after $1,903 per finished steer. Now, it's owned by the marketing company from this point forward. So, our farm cost of production, remember I said it was $1,521 to get that steer from Earth to harvest, right? So, our farm net profit is $382 a head. Now, the marketing company owns it. They pay $1,903 for that harvest. They put the other things in it, the $825 for processing, the $70 for transport, the $645 for all the other stuff, cold storage, packaging, marketing, no, no, no. They have $3,443 in that animal. For a total gross revenue of $41.20, so the marketing company net profit is $676 a head. Pastor X, I don't have time today to go through an example in all of our prices. I can do that, but I'm going to, I have a bottle of water. Thank you. Egg Enterprise. We set this, because we run 1,000 bird units, we set this up in 1,000 bird enterprise account linking. Enterprise accounting allocation. Because we always know we're going to do 1,000 bird units. We have an average labor rate of about 80%. Our cost per pound of feed is about $0.35. Our cost per pullet delivered to the farm, 16-week-old pullets delivered to the farms, about $8 a month. We pay $20 per hour for labor. And our carbon cost is $0.20. Okay, so you can see further breakdowns here for 1,000 hens. You can see our cost per day, per 1,000 hens, and our cost per dozen, per 1,000 hens. So when you add up all the costs, either per day or per dozen, we average across the board selling our eggs for about $4 a dozen. Now that split between wholesale and retail sales. Retail sales would be $5 to $6 a dozen. Wholesale sales would be around $3.50 to $3.65. So we average about four. So per 1,000 birds after paying labor and everything, feed costs, the whole gamut, processing, everything, about $27,000 per thousand birds net profit per year. Okay? It's not a bad gig. So it's pretty easy to add up. And like I said, we're running an act of 8,000 birds or so. It's a pretty nice little net profit on an annual basis. Again, we market to a lot of restaurants. Presentation is critically important in that regard. Our number one goal of our farms, generate as much debt revenue per regular every year as possible. And I've gone through all the revenue streams that we do, and we're constantly trying to think of new revenue streams that we can manage and we can handle. Again, I'm going to show you a few pictures real quick of our farm tours. We treat them well. So this is the appetizers before the dinner. Okay? So we can let them try a whole bunch of different things here. And we bring in professional chefs to do all of this. And then we have our dinners. And again, we feed them very, very well. You know, these dinners are well-appointed. We want everything to be good. You know, they're not just eating our food. We want the ambiance, you know, the table settings, everything to be good. Because we're representing us. We're representing us. Okay? So when we're out in the fields, we had a pig picking today, right? So we do a lot of those. We also do whole lambs this way. So we do whole pigs and whole lambs on the pits like this. People love this. So, you know, we give them a lot of different options there. Now, right down here, these are jalapeno pepper poppers on the grill. We grew jalapenos in our market gardens. And they're wrapped with pasture pork bacon. So, how much better can you get than that? So, again, just showing feeding them out in the field. On the farm tours, we show them everything on the farm. Nothing's hidden. You know, they get to experience everything. We even do the, in the background there, as a rainfall simulator, we do this. It's amazing how much with consumers and chefs that rainfall simulator really resonates with them. They get to go see all the livestock, the chickens. We work with a lot of James Beard award-winning chefs. So, again, I told you this earlier. The top way to sell food is to put it in their mouth. Now, never ignore the other sellable items from the carcass. Okay? Beef, chicken, pork, lamb, whatever. But I got lots of different bones that I can sell. Maribones, ribs, loxtail, vertebrae, joints. We got all the fat shrimp, the tallow, the cheeks, the tongues, the organ meats, the highs, the tendons, ligaments. All of that sellable. Don't ignore it. Don't let it get thrown away. Y'all know what this is? We have a lot of our restaurants doing this now. Anybody got an idea? No, not all of them. It's a much better fat than all of them. It's a far better fat than all of them. Boy, that's right. That is rendered beef tallow. Rendered grass-fed beef tallow. Okay? We've got our restaurants doing this right now. It's an appetizer dish. So, rendered beef tallow, they infuse whatever seasonings and herbs they want in it. You put a wick in the middle, put it in the bowl, put it in the refrigerator, harden it up, and then when their dinner crowd comes in, they pull them out, light them. These are table candles that double as a bread dinner. They are absolutely delicious. They sell them for an average of $15 a dish as an appetizer. Okay? And what normally happens to beef tallow is a throwaway. We're turning it into a high value item that consumers go crazy over. And after a while, I wake it up, this is good stuff. Okay? I mean, your body just says, thank you, thank you. So, we do a lot of that. What do you see here? Maribone. How many of you have roasted maribone? Oh, my gosh. Folks, if you really want your body to thank you, I mean, maribone. Okay? This is great stuff. So, this is from different restaurants that we sell to at the presentation. We're going to eat organ meats. Organ meats. Okay? What did I say on day one? Remember what I said was the most nutrient dense food we could eat? Organ meats. So, all the organ meats. This, again, presentation matters. This was in an event we did. So, those are steamship rounds. Okay? That are being cooked over an open fire. And we've got the two, you know, sort of bicycle seats there. And you just pedal and keep them things turning. And then in the background, we've got whole brawners roasting over an open fire down here. Okay? That is presentation. Presentation. And people get to see it being prepared and then get to experience it. All of that matters. Hold lamp. Okay? Hold lamp. So, real quick, finish up just a handful of keys to successful marketing. First and foremost, you can't do it all. Either have a family member or hire someone to do sales and marketing. Okay? This is critical, critical, critical. You need somebody dedicated to sales and marketing. And whoever that is, they must know and clearly communicate your value proposition. They've got to be able to tell your story. You've got to know all of your true cost of production all the way through. Just like I gave you for us. Okay? We know our cost of production. They're in spreadsheets all the time. So, know your true cost of production all the way through in this process. Identify and focus on your core target market channel. Do not try to be everything to everybody and sell to everybody. You're not going to do it. So, focus on who your core target market channel is and cater to that. Okay? And don't stray from that. Don't try to be everything to everyone. Train yourself and your sales staff how to communicate. Deliver more to your customer than just product sales. You've got to be the trusted knowledge leader. Find recipes, build ideas, video ideas, new dishes, concepts. I can show you transparency is important. Russ said it. He does it. Check with them routinely after the sales. Okay? You just started your job when you made the sale. You got to follow up. Keep that relationship going. And always be willing and ready to answer their questions. So, last one. Use social media and internet wisely. Okay? Man, do people misuse this. Never, ever, ever get in an argument with anybody and especially a customer over social media. That is a core mistake. Do not, I don't care what they said. Okay? Don't you never fall for that and respond to them back on social media. You never win. You never win. So, don't be tempted in that. Be very savvy about your use or hire someone who is. Use it routinely. Be short, sweet, to the point. High quality, high-def pictures. Short, sweet videos. Don't be verbose. Bullet point text narrative. Don't write these long diatribes. Nobody wants to read your novel. Okay? Everything short, sweet, concise. The more pictures, the more videos, the better. Okay? So, there's some helpful tips and tricks and hints. There's a whole lot more we couldn't cover. Come back next year, I can cover those. So, questions? That's my first comment. We want you back next year. To finish. To finish it up. To finish it up. That's right. Questions? What is your harvest date and the rest of it? Are you paying harvest date and the rest of it? Go ahead, Rick. You hear it? Yeah, very good question. So, what is our harvest age and was that just in? Okay. Yeah, yeah. So, again, we're not seasonally finishing. We're finishing year-round. And now, again, don't intimate that I'm saying you need to be a year-round finisher. That may not fit your context. It fits our context. Okay? It may work better for you to be a seasonal finisher. But for us, we're year-round. So, our typical age is about 24 months of age. Now, I really don't want it below that. Because I'm not going to get in the flavor profile I want at a younger age. So, our pigs, 325 and older. They're mature. Our broilers, 10 to 12 weeks. I'm never going to harvest a broiler in six to eight weeks. Because I won't have the flavor profile. And that's what keeps our customers coming back. Okay? Thirty-five months on the day, 24 to 30. Twenty-four to 30 is really good. You get, you get, and the beautiful thing about grass finishing is that, you know, if I need to trail some out a little bit, meet my pipeline, and I need to keep them all in 28 or 30 months, I can. And I have a part of a darn thing. But if they're in a feedlot on a feedlot finishing ration, they're falling apart on me and dying on me. Okay? The longer I keep them. But on grass, no problem whatsoever. I can easily extend my pipeline in that supply. Exactly. I hear you. Alan, could you maybe go ahead, depth a little more on your e-commerce. Sure. But, if you're in a feedlot. So, you don't want me to keep them all in 28 or 30 months. So, you don't need to keep them all in 28 to 30 months. I can. And I have a part of a darn thing. But if they're in a feedlot on a feedlot finishing ration, they're falling apart on me and dying on me. Okay? The longer I keep them. But on grass, no problem whatsoever. easily instead of my pipeline and that supply. Exactly. Alan, could you maybe go ahead and depth a little more on your e-commerce shipping? Are you, who are you using? Do you ship nationwide? Do you build that price into the cost of the product or does the customer see that as a line item at the end? Okay, very, very good questions. So first and foremost, no we do not ship nationwide. Okay, we ship at best two-day ground ship, that's it. So we always look at our customer base within the two-day ground ship ratings. Here's the deal with shipping food, you know, if you're shipping beyond that two-day ground particularly in the summertime, it gets really, really hard to keep it frozen. Okay, really hard. It's arriving and following. And look, now since COVID, UPS FedEx guarantee nothing. Okay, guaranteed nothing. So two-day or less, in almost every one of us, in a one to two-day ground ship, we got far more potential customers than we could ever service. So there's no need to go beyond a two-day ground ship to build a customer base. So we have our staff, our sales and marketing staff, we're picking, packing, and fulfillment, and all of that. We do use FedEx, but we also have a more regional delivery company that we use a lot. And so I highly recommend that. The honest truth is, if you have a regional company, I would choose them every day of the week over FedEx and UPS. You've got, oh, I got to go check with the marketing folks. I don't even remember their name, because I don't do that on a daily basis, but I can get that for you. Yeah, but I know we have a regional shipper that we use for that. Yeah. Next question. Here we go. On your pasture, you said you recorded 140 species. Are you primarily perennial-based stuff, or do you do a lot of animals? Okay, it's a very good question. And, Barry, I've got to go back and you have one more. I didn't answer. I'll answer it real quick. We build the shipping cost into the price of the product. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. All right. So your question, we are 90 plus percent perennial, 10 percent annuals. So we used to be a lot higher percent annuals and planning, you know, diversity is cool and warm to the field throughout the year. But as we built that perennial diversity, we have found we no longer need to do a lot of annuals. So we've been able to greatly reduce the amount of annual planting that we do, and that's expensive, right? With those perennials, they're always there. I don't have to replant or do anything. So we have really liked the fact that we've been able to move much, much more towards that perennial system on the year rail basis versus the annual. But in starting, we had to use a lot more annuals to just get everything going. that's a lot more that we've had already talked about. Yeah. Hi, is it live? Yeah, yeah. You have a really impressive number of enterprises going on there. Yeah. It's really amazing. Can you...or I got two related questions. Can you give us a sense of the timeline that you saw today and how you got today? And also today, how many key people do you have? You're obviously not managing all that all your work yourself, and maybe you are, but how is it distributed? Yeah, so I left the university in the year 2000. So that's really when all of this started. And I think it was 2002 I started marketing, grass-fed beef only initially. And I was trying to do it all. So I was building paddocks, doing cattle every day, marketing, all that, right? So I was doing all of this. And it quickly became apparent that I needed more help. So, you know, we started hiring people. And the one thing we discovered real quick is that once you build a customer base, a base customer group, then if they're buying one thing from you, they'll buy a whole bunch of things from you. So as we went through the last 22, 23 years, we didn't have to just keep adding more and more customers with every enterprise or product that we added, right? Because the customer base we already had said, oh, I want eggs too. I want growers too. I want honey. I want this, vegetables, whatever. So it becomes easier and easier and easier as you build with your base items first to then start adding other enterprises, other items to sell to the same customer base. Because you become a lot more of what I call a one-stop shop for them, right? And they like that a lot. The less they have to go to the grocery store to get stuff, the better they like it. We now have, we've got 22 people at the Alabama farm, five people at the Mississippi farm. That's what allowed, they're all outstanding people. That's what allows me to do what I do. So I can be on the road, I can do Understanding Agents, Soil Health Academy, events like this, and know that the farms are being well run. So I no longer, you know, run the farms day to day. You know, I have general managers at each farm, that's their job, to run them on a day to day. Now I check in with them every single day, but that's their job to run them on a daily basis and to keep things going. Yeah, but it's a step by step building process. Yes, sir. Next question. Okay, I noticed on your picture there about your, your, the poultry, the electric netting. Do you run the electric netting and move it daily or whatever? Or do you, because then you said the dogs run up to the shed. So, yeah, how does that work? Yeah, so some of those pictures were a little older. And so here's what we do on, on the only place we use electric netting now is when we get new batches of pullets in. And they're a separate house imprinting in that house and all that and getting used to the farm and we use electric netting there. We haven't dedicated it all yet to them. But then they are integrated with the rest of them after that, after they become imprinted to their house and to the farm. Then they're integrated and the electric net goes away. So the big groups of chickens that you saw out there, there's no electric netting. Okay? So those big flocks out there, you know, six to eight thousand birds, no electric netting, just dogs. So we are not moving electric netting every day. You know, that, for that many birds, that could be a whole bunch of electric netting to put up. We're not going to do that. The dogs do that job of protection for us. Yeah. So what kind of dogs do you learn and how long it takes you to learn how people do that? So on the chickens, we're running predominantly Pyrenees, Mokmosh cross. And we train them as puppies. So when they're a puppy, we put them in an open kitchen. We put them in with the chickens. We leave them in the kennel eight to ten to twelve days. You know, we sort of watch them and observe their reaction and all that. And then we turn them out with the chickens. And pretty much they think they're a chicken. You know, and they've imprinted with the birds. And they live with the birds. So they do live with the birds their whole life. With the sheep, we are using, I really like the common doors. And the reason being Pyrenees and Pyrenees crosses like a little bit. Okay. Common doors don't. They stay right with the sheep at all times. Also, Pyrenees like to be really, really, really friendly. Right? And common doors nowhere near as friendly. As a matter of fact, our own common doors don't even want us to touch them. Right? And whenever we come out or anybody else, they'll bark ferociously. They bark ferociously. Now, they never touched a human, harm to human. But I like the fact that they bark ferociously. Because they're big dogs. They look fierce. And they keep people that don't belong out. Okay? But they always stay with the sheep. We never have to worry about the common doors. They're only, and leaving the sheep at risk. Yeah. They do mix fine with the, so the question is, do they mix with the cattle and the sheep? And the answer is yes. We don't have a problem there. Go ahead. I have two questions about your geography. We have a lot of customers and friends in your region. I know it fits, but there is not much there. So, how far, how hard you want to take your beef cows for your poultry processing? But how far are you calling your cow for processing? So, our Alabama farm is located an hour and a half south of Birmingham, Alabama. It's a very, very rural section of Alabama. We haul those cattle all the way to Potsville, Arkansas. Okay? Cattle hogs, all of that. And I don't hesitate to do that. Now, there are some plants that are a little closer, but they do not give us what we need. And that's a whole other presentation. The processing side of things, that's an easy and hour long presentation. But the deal is, you, if you're selling like we're selling every day, you need the fit and finish, you need the packaging, you need the detail to attention. And if you've got a process that's not giving you that, you're going to have unhappy customers. So, we have zero problem putting wheels up underneath our livestock and going hours away to get to a processor that will give us what we need so we can continue to satisfy our customers and build our customer base. So, I don't hesitate to do that. Now, in terms of the sale side, you know, we're running within a, basically a 200 mile radius of each farm. So, the Alabama farm, we're hitting Birmingham, Tuscaloosa, Hudsville, Mobile, New Orleans, all of that without any problem. So, with Mississippi farm, we're hitting Memphis and Germantown and Olive Branch and Tupelo and those types of places within a very reasonable radius. So, every place has a pretty good radius that you can hit. And we just sort of draw a 100 to 200 mile circle around and that's what we target. This is our last question right here. Just a real quick question. About how many dogs per thousand birds are you finding works? Really good question. So, for 8,000 hens, we're running four dogs. That's all it takes. Because they, you know, usually what they do is there's two dogs on duty. And again, remember I said they assign themselves that. There's two dogs on duty, two dogs off at any one given time. So, basically, their own ratio is about one dog per 4,000 birds. But we're running them all together. Boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, right? And so the dogs can easily watch out for them, guard them. And because those birds can roam, the other thing we find the dogs doing is if any group of hens starts to roam too far out from the housing, the dogs will trot out and get them and bring them right back up. So, the dogs are great birders too. They really watch out for them. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Aish Inter Kazakhstan you