Grassroots Beef - Regenerative Farming at Bel & The Dragon
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mVm-rM8hUPo
Entertainment
 We live in a world that existed before we started trying to harvest food from it. What did that world look like? And how do we now try and replicate it as closely as possible, given that we have to feed 7 billion? And it's unrealistic and unfair to expect the consumer to drive the change here. Yeah, 100%. As a group of farmers that came together and tried to figure out how we could link the work that was happening on farm around sustainability with companies and brands like Fullers who want to do more in sustainability. A big bit of where that food comes from is often beef, because it's a really big contributor to greenhouse gases on your menu. There's so many different ways of farming beef. Some of them are very environmentally damaging, and some of them can be very environmentally additive and positive. We have a set of farming standards that all of our farms that supply beef to us are audited against. And that, as a collective of standards, we have chosen to call regenerative farming, trying to copy nature. Beef farmed in a regenerative system tends to use much fewer resources, so they have a much lighter footprint on the planet. The beef is farmed in a system, a broad environmental system. So they're, in effect, used as a tool to improve the environment that they're in. What we stand behind is that the farming approach that our farmers take is good for the environment. It's good for the local community. It's good for the family business. And we'll have an independent company come and check that they are farming to that standard. So we've created a certification. There are six principles of regenerative farming, and we incorporate all of those within our standards. What we do is we have a very data-driven approach to them telling us what they're doing. Beef often gets a really bad rep, which is crazy because not all beef is equal. There's a saying which is, it's not the cow, it's the how. Oh, shit! Mm-hmm. Yeah. No. atual, yeah. Wait, wait, wait, wait. I've been doing a broom... So why don't you grab me sorry? Did. What? People said the stuff that I had no idea. I'm doing aẹ decentralized team this week. So what we sound nothing like before. People tried to get a計測, largive times cup Ikeda because it's the nature of life. And we're partnering with me. People said negotiation lADE without having me. I love working… And I think you're laughing at everything along자 too grupo. I'm doing so they're all interesting because they're taking these masks on nosotros. Yeah, people said they're good luck.