How to Install a Drip Irrigation System for Small Farms (DIY Beginner's Guide)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mxhstmplM-g
Howto & Style
 Do you have or are you thinking of starting a small hobby farm or organic produce farm? And find yourself wondering, how am I going to irrigate my farm? Or perhaps you've tried overhead watering options and rejected them due to the problems that they can cause, such as inefficient use of water or making your plants wet and soggy and thus prone to disease, rot and fungus. Today, I'm going to show you how to install a drip irrigation kit for small farms. We're going to walk you through step by step and show you all the advantages that drip has to offer, from the hyper-efficient use of water to delivering water directly where it counts to the roots of the plants. Today, we're going to install a slightly customized version of our premium drip irrigation kit for small farms. For us, this is going to be a two-zone, 22-row drip irrigation system. To determine the parts we needed, all we had to do was take a few measurements. To determine our mainline length, we measured from the water source to the furthest bed. We did that for each zone. Then, we measured the length of our beds and then multiplied that by two to determine the amount of drip tape we need, since we're going to have two rows per bed. If we have any 90 degrees turns, we're going to include elbows, which we're going to have a couple of those today in our mainline, so we also included two elbows. Any place the mainline ends is going to get an end cap. Each row of tape is going to need its own takeoff adapter, and of course, we're going to need two head assemblies, one for each zone. And that's what landed us on our premium drip irrigation kit for small farms. Then, we made a couple of small modifications to make it perfect for ours. If you'd like to learn more details about designing your own drip irrigation system, check out our video there in the top right. It's a step-by-step guide to easily design your own drip system. The first thing I like to do is organize everything into like piles. Thus, I put my couplings with my couplings, my takeoff adapters with my takeoff adapters, my end plugs with my end plugs. This makes finding them when I need them much easier. Believe it or not, everything we need is right here on the table. We've got our mainline tubing, which is the part that's going to carry water to our drip tape. And just below that mainline is our drip tape, and this is the part that delivers the actual water to our plants. Next to that, we've got our punch. Now, the punch is used to punch a hole in our mainline tubing, so we can use a fitting to connect our drip tape. Up here, we've got some stakes. Now, the stakes are used while you're installing your mainline tubing. You'll use those to pin it to the ground. It makes it much easier to unroll your tubing. Next to that, we've got a couple elbows. For any location, our mainline tubing needs to turn 90 degrees. Just next to those, you'll see a couple end caps. Now, these will go anywhere our mainline tubing ends, so that the line can be pressurized. And then next to those, I've got a pair of couplings. Couplings are used to splice two pieces of mainline tubing together. You're going to need a couple, even if the design doesn't call for it. For example, if you accidentally cut your tubing in a bad place or accidentally damage it, you can use one of these couplings to repair it. And just below those, we've got our drip tape takeoff adapters. Now, how these work is one end gets pushed into the hole you punch in your mainline tubing, while the other end connects to your drip tape. Just next to those, we have what's known as a goof plug. The goof plug is used to fill any holes that you made by accident or that you no longer need with the punch. And just below that, we've got our drip tape end caps. Just like the mainline tubing end caps, these are used to close off the ends so that the line can be pressurized. And finally, we've got our head assembly parts. This consists of our two-zone timer, so we can make this a two-zone system. Now, the timer is optional. You could use just a hose splitter if you wanted a manual two-zone system. We've got our backflow preventers to keep any irrigation water from flowing back into our water source. We've got a couple filters. These are fine mesh filters that will filter out any debris that might otherwise get into our system and cause problems. Our pressure regulators so that we can maintain downstream pressure. This protects our components, particularly our thin wall drip tape from any potential damage from high pressure. And then finally, our hose by tubing adapter. This is the part that connects our mainline tubing to the head assembly and thus the water source. A pair of scissors or cutters also come in handy so that you can cut off lengths of your mainline tubing and your drift tape lines. One tip while you're organizing your parts is to place your mainline tubing directly in the sun. As tubing gets warm, it relaxes and gets much easier to work with. So, what you do is place it in direct sunlight, cut the straps, and then continue organizing your parts and installing the head assembly. By the time you're ready to run your mainline tubing, it'll be softer and much easier to work with. Now that our parts are organized and the bands on our mainline tubing are cut, it's time to install our head assembly. The head assembly is the part of the system that connects all the rest of it to the water source. The first part that goes on is the timer. The timer is the only part in the head assembly that's rated for constant pressure, so it always has to come first. The other parts, the backflow preventer, the filter, the pressure regulator, they have to be relieved of pressure when the system is not in use because they are not rated for constant pressure. Next up is our backflow preventer and every irrigation system that's running from the potable water supply needs one of these. And that's because it protects your potable water supply from potential contamination. One quick tip while you're installing your head assembly components is to check the female side for the gasket or o-ring. All hose threaded components should have one, that's how they complete the seal. Remember, hose threaded parts should be finger tightened, then maybe another quarter to half turn after that, but you don't want to wrench them, you don't want to use tools, and you don't want to use silicone. After our backflow preventer comes our filter. These are fine mesh filters that filter out very small debris that could otherwise cause problems in your drip system. So you'll always want one of these, even on clean municipal water. Then our pressure regulator. The pressure regulator keeps pressure within the system nice and even, and for a drip tape system, lowers it to 15 psi. It's a low pressure solution, so it also protects your parts from high pressure. And then last up is our hose by tubing adapter. All this does is connects our mainline tubing to the rest of the head assembly. And now we're ready to connect our mainline tubing to our head assembly, run our mainline tubing down our rows. We brought a two outlet timer and two head assemblies because this is big enough to be a two zone system. Now what this really means is, is that if we tried to do it all as one zone, the flow rate would overtax our water source. For example, if the flow rate of all of our drip tape adds up to 600 gallons per hour, but our hose bib only flows at 400 gallons per hour, there wouldn't be enough water to feed all of our drip tape. So how we solve that is by splitting it up into multiple zones. We can turn a 600 gallon per hour irrigation system into two 300 gallon per hour irrigation systems that a water source with 400 gallons per hour has no problems keeping up with. If you're not sure what the flow rate of your water source is, it's easy to find out. The video there in the top right will show you how to calculate it. Now, you might be wondering why we have two of each of the head assembly pieces. Couldn't we just put the backflow preventer, the filter and the pressure regulator before the timer and only need one of each? The answer is unfortunately not. Now, the reason is because these parts are not rated for constant pressure. This means that they have to come downstream of any shutoff valves, in this case our timer, so that they're relieved of pressure when the system is not in use. If you'd like to learn about zoning your system and when you should and why, check out the video there to the top right. It's a step-by-step guide to zoning your system and why you might want to. To connect your mainline tubing to your head assembly, first make sure the locking nut is retracted all the way. Then push the tubing on over the barb and then turn the locking nut to secure the tubing on over the barb like this. If you have any difficulty getting the tubing on over the barb, dip the end of it into a cup or pan of very hot water. Be careful not to burn yourself. Leave it there for a few moments and the tubing will soften up considerably, which makes it much easier to push on over the barb. Now I'll connect the other side of our mainline for our second zone, run it over and we'll install our elbows so we can turn our mainline to cover down both sides of our rows. I'm going to run the mainline tubing for each zone from the head assembly down here to the base of our field. There, I'm going to have to cut into it so I can install a 90 degree elbow so we can turn our mainline tubing to go perpendicular to our field. To run our mainline tubing, we're going to take our tubing down here to the very last row. Then, as you can see, it has become relaxed by setting in direct sunlight for a good amount of time. So what we're going to do is we're going to take the top of the mainline tubing and we're going to unwind it and bring it up to our elbow fitting so we can join it to the water source. You can see how easy it was to run the mainline tubing after we've been setting in the sun for a while. It gets a lot softer, more pliable, and easy to work with. And all we had to do was uncoil it, and walk it down to the very last row. Now we're going to go down there, cut the tubing to length, apply our end cap, and then we're going to connect it to the other side of the elbow. So both zones will be connected to the head assembly and thus the water source. Then we're going to be ready to run our drip tape all the way down to the end of our rows. With our mainline ran and capped off, I'm going to go ahead and staple it in place. The kit comes with staples that you can use to hold your mainline in place. Stapling in place will keep it from moving around too much while you install the rest of the system and hold it in place after you're done during repeated pressurizations. Pressurizations can move the tubing a little bit, so the staples will come in handy. To use them, simply push the staple down over the tubing or at one of your fittings. We've got our mainline ran and you'll notice right now it is one solid piece of mainline. But you'll recall this is a two-zone system. So what we're going to do to zone this is we're going to make a cut into the mainline. We're going to connect zone one, which goes down this way, and we'll connect zone two to go this way. Before we install our drip tape, we're going to flush our mainline. This is to make sure any debris that got in during installation gets flushed out before we connect our drip tape. We don't want any debris that got in to potentially clog our emitter line. So to flush the system, all you have to do is remove the threaded end cap, turn on the water, and let water run long enough for water to come from the water source out the end of your tubing and let it run for a few moments. Once we flush this zone, we'll do the exact same process on the other zone. That's because with the timer we're using, you cannot run both zones at once. In fact, in most cases you shouldn't, as trying to run both at once might be too strong for the water source to be able to provide water for both zones. Now that we've completed our mainline tubing run, we're ready to install our drip tape adapters. These are the fittings that will connect our drip tape to our mainline tubing. We're going to install one of our 7mm takeoff adapter valve using the red 345 punch. To do so, we're simply going to punch a hole in the sidewall of the ¾ inch mainline tubing. Try to get it as far on the side as possible, so that way your fitting is more horizontal than vertical. So we made a punch and a spot in the mainline that we don't want to use. That can happen when you're installing a big system. To take care of that problem, the kit comes with what are called goof plugs. And as their name implies, when you make a goof, these will help you plug it up. All you do is push this end of the goof plug into the hole, and it will snap in, and you'll have a spot that's as good as new. Now, we're just going to rinse and repeat this process all the way down, anywhere we want our drip tape lines to be placed. When installing a lot of adapters like this, I find it easier to do all my punching first, and then follow it up and pop in my adapters. All right, we've got all our takeoff adapters installed. Now it's time to run the actual drip tape all the way down our rows. Our rows, are approximately 160 feet in length, so it's going to be quite the roll of drip tape. Since the rows are particularly long, we're going to use some equipment to help us unroll it. It's simply going to be an A-frame with a rod, and we're going to put the rod through the core of the drip tape so that we can just pull the drip tape and unroll it down the row. For the larger farm kits, while it is possible to run the tape down the rows by yourself, we do recommend getting assistance here if you know anyone who can give you a hand. The large rolls come at about 4,100 feet, and that's a lot of tape to run by yourself. So there's lots of ways you can do it. We've seen people roll the roll of drip tape itself. We've seen people where one person holds it and the other person unrolls the drip tape and takes it down to the end of the row. The possibilities are pretty much endless, but we do find it's easier to use a little bit of equipment when the rows get this long and the roll gets this large. It doesn't have to be an expensive piece of equipment. Even a couple pieces of stacked cinder block with rebar can serve well enough to unroll your drip tape. Okay, now that we've got some of our tape run, let's connect it to our takeoff adapter. This works a lot like the fittings we were doing for our mainline tubing. All right, I'll show you how. Simply slide the tape on over the barb and turn the locking nut to secure it in place. With the adapter installed, all you have to do to connect your tape is retract the locking nut on the takeoff adapter, push the tape on over the barb, and then turn the locking nut to secure the tape on over that barb. When installing your drip tape, make sure the emitters in the drip tape are facing up. You can tell where the emitters are at because you can physically see them and the hole, or you can tell by the two white stripes. That end should always face up. And when you're cutting into your tape for any reason, whether it's at the start or the end of your tape run, be careful not to cut into that emitter. You'll be able to see it with its physical presence and the hole where it drips out of. With all of our tape lines ran, it's time to put on our end caps. The end caps go on just like the other fittings we've been working with today. Make sure the lock nut is fully retracted. Slide the tape on over the barb, turn the locking nut to secure it in place. These end caps, just like the end caps we used on our mainline tubing, are also threaded so that you can easily flush your system. It's a good idea to flush your tape system regularly to get any debris that might get inside flushed out the end. The turbulent action inside the tape will dislodge debris and see it flush right out the back. With our tape lines capped, I'm going to go ahead and stake them in place. Now when I do this, it's best to make sure that the stake just goes over the fitting, not over the tape. When the tape pressurizes and fills, you don't want to push against the stake and potentially rupture. That's why we put it over the fitting. The reason we use the stake is to hold our tape in place. Through repeated watering cycles and thermal expansion and contraction cycles, it can get displaced and move out of place. Stakes will help hold it in place for longer. Eventually, it will still get displaced. You'll want to monitor your lines, make adjustments and keep them in place. But the stakes will help prevent major displacement. While you're putting on your threaded end caps, it's a good idea to check the threading at the end of each one as you apply it. Sometimes during transportation, they get jostled loose and better to find out now than when you do your first watering cycle and see water come leaking at the end of it. So while you're putting in your end caps, give each one a little tight and a little test and make sure it's secure. During the first watering cycle, this is the perfect time to walk the system to check for any problems. Check where your drip tape and takeoff adapters connect to your main line and make sure they're not leaking. Check your end caps. Check joints, connections and fittings and check the parts at the head assembly. Make sure all of them are operating leak-free. Then walk your drip tape lines. Make sure they're dripping as they should be from the start all the way to the finish. And that's how easy it is to install the system and enjoy all the benefits of drip irrigation. Your plants will thank you. If you'd like to learn more about irrigating plants with drip tape, check out our Growing Drip Tape playlist right here. If you'd like to dive right in and get started, here's a link to our small farm kits right there.