Pest risk analysis: Why we do it and why it is important
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MXtQ9zVUqI0
News & Politics
 Pest Risk Analysis is the process of evaluating biological or other scientific and economic evidence to determine whether an organism is a pest, if it should be regulated, and the strength of any phytosanitary measures to be taken against it. It is a science-based process that provides the rationale for determining appropriate phytosanitary measures to protect the plant resources of a specified area. Pest Risk Analysis is one of the available tools for agriculture, trade, food security and the environment, as it helps countries to protect their plant resources from pests and fulfill their international obligations. Pest Risk Analysis is conducted to evaluate and manage risks from specific pests and internationally traded commodities. It identifies and assesses risks to agricultural and horticultural crops, forestry and the environment from plant pests. It impacts all aspects of a country's plant protection or plant quarantine program, because it provides the information needed to determine an appropriate course of action in a given situation. It can be regarded as a process to answer these questions. Is the organism a pest? What is the likelihood of the pest's introduction, establishment and spread? How much economic damage, including environmental and social, will it cause? What can be done to mitigate unacceptable impacts? Pest Risk Analysis supports various types of national or sub-national programs including surveillance programs, eradication programs, establishing pest-free areas, and supporting exports of agricultural commodities to other countries. However, the most common application of pest risk analysis is to establish appropriate import requirements to prevent the introduction and spread of regulated pests. Pest Risk Analysis is a useful means of evaluating and informing various types of policy to predict likely outcomes, evaluate efficacy, or provide other insights into policies and programs administered by national plant protection organizations. These should adopt international standards for phytosanitary measures and pest risk analysis as a key part of the decision-making process when it comes to establishing phytosanitary measures and regulations for plants and plant products. National plant protection organizations use pest risk analysis for a variety of reasons. Analyzing risks associated with pathways, including commodities. Providing analytical support for new or revised policies. Much of the work that a national plant protection organization must carry out can be supported by pest risk analysis, from making decisions on how to spend resources, to deciding on phytosanitary measures for imported commodities. Visit the International Phytosanitary Portal at www.ippc.int to find resources on pest risk analysis such as guides, training materials and more. Access the FAO e-learning academy at elearning.fao.org for free e-learning courses. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. You you you you you you you you you