(AI) Artificial Intelligence in Agriculture Technology | Revolutionizing Smart Farming
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=myVcct1mZM4
Science & Technology
 AI artificial intelligence and agriculture technology revolutionizing smart farming in the era of innovation where mind-blowing technology meets the soil a mesmerizing revolution appears deep down under the earth in this era we have witnessed the wonderful doings of artificial intelligence a groundbreaking revolution occurs when artificial intelligence meets the fields on the broad grounds of possibilities by dint of artificial intelligence in agriculture every possibility has changed into a reality and the results are outclassed in the realm of this technology we have seen an enhancement in the growth furthermore there are fewer chances of harming the labor which was a common factor in the past let's have a look at the most advanced AI robotic machines can you guys imagine how this strategy works well it works super duper amazing you just have to put it in the field and enjoy the rest of the part yeah it is this much crazy just imagine you put it on active mode and each plant of your field gets an individual care and observation well what tasks will it do these AI resources are maximized to perfection precision agriculture helps the farmers and the owners of the farms in monitoring the plants individually crop health and ground conditions and keeps you up-to-date about weather conditions such generous information and observation enhance your growth and it does not end here but it makes the wastage minimum and provides you with sustainable farming. Its smart sensors, drone quality and satellite imagery functions combine. As a result, it monitors each plant and farmers pay attention accordingly. It benefits crop health and develops a fast growing in the field. Fruit picker! Well, when it comes to harvesting, we all know how tough the task is. But what if we involve AI here as well? Yes, that's so damn true that here also, we could get help anyway. When we need a fleet of fruit pickers, the Tevel Control Center sends a team of technicians. And guess what? The drone pickers scan the ripe and unripe fruit and pick the perfectly ripened fruit. These drones do not only save farmers precious time, but also maximize growth. This instant picking method has developed a noticeable yield in the agri department. As these drones pick only the fully ripened fruit and as others are ready to harvest, they give them a proper time to grow healthy. moreover, in the past when harvesting was done by hand, there were many injuries seen on the harvesting ground. On and off, laborers got injured by falling from ladders or caught by cutters or scissors. If they survive both, then often they pick a semi-ripe fruit to save their time or increase their basket numbers. So we can say that these AI technologies are playing the next level games on practical grounds. All technology lovers, don't forget to give a thumbs up to this video. VeggieBot We can say that in a few years, AI has become a part of our daily life. They work like life hacks and save our energy and time. Though it has become easy to harvest through these AI robots, however, still there are a few vegetables or fruits that are date resistant to them. Iceberg lettuce is one of them. They look like a challenge to these methods and easily go to damage and get flat to the ground. But now, a group from the University of Cambridge has created a robotic machine named VeggieBot that is trained to pick the ripened iceberg lettuce in a lab setting. However, it works with less speed and the output is not sufficient yet. Anyways, it has demonstrated how these AI robots in agriculture have expanded. The team says if this VeggieBot works right with iceberg lettuce, then it can work great with anything in the future. The VeggieBot is a very important tool to use in the world. While their work and experiments are continuing. Velodrome. Here, welcome another invention of AI that is known as Velodrome. The cruise speed of this is 102 kilometers per hour, and the time of being in the air is about 27 to 30 minutes. It is considered a next level logistics Velocopter. The Velodrome has enhanced the yield in the regions of plant protection, seed growing, frost control, and much more. Commonly, it is a wholly electric utility drone with the capacity to carry an unprecedented payload. It has been designed to complete challenging missions across dimensions of sustainable transport. It can carry a heavy load of about 200 kilograms up to 40 kilometers. Furthermore, the aircraft has 18 propellers and 18 electric motors to face the challenging tasks and to do them remarkably. It is powered by multiple lithium-ion battery packs. But guess what? These batteries take only less than five minutes. Yes, in the blink of an eye. Can you believe this? Exit. From the odyssey of digging the muddy ground deep. Seedlings to harvesting. These artificial intelligence machines work without being tired, reducing the workloads from men's shoulders, and developing the overall performance and efficiency in farming procedures. This machine automatically produces path planning based on the farm's geofence and machine limitations. The most considerable benefit of this machine is that it can be used directly from the box, which means that you don't need any special software or installations in your phones or at your homes. As you can see, it's a great tool. Yeah, that sounds great. It provides a ready-made ecosystem that saves the soil from getting too compact. This use of AI in agriculture has made farming a more profitable business worldwide. It allows workers to plan all vital factors at the beginning of the season. Algorithms are built in the cloud to the mechanical precision of this AI machine. It has improved the quality and in some cases also improved the quantity of the total production. Hey, you curious eyes, don't forget to tell us your favorite ride of AI in agriculture. John Deere Autonomous Sprayer. It is an American company that prepares agricultural machinery that works with AI and performs mind-blowing results. This AI machine works with two drones. One comes into the field to scan the weeds. When it has done the procedure, it automatically returns to its test box and shares the weed details. Its flight time with full battery is almost 30 minutes. When we talk about its low battery or its tank needing to be filled, it goes back to its test box. Its landing pads automatically open up and battery gets charged automatically and the tank is also filled the same way. How magically it works! In the John Deere test box, all process is done with water in the farms of maize and cotton. Moreover, this AI machine contributes its efficiency to control pesticides and diseases in the fields. Additionally, its function of spraying from the air allows fields to get better on the wetland. AI robotic machines are playing a next level of mechanism in agriculture. These AI tools have enhanced the yield worldwide and reduced the burden of farmers. Additionally, they also have made them acknowledge farming in a significant way as they have technologies in their hands in the form of mobiles. For more videos, subscribe to our channel and enjoy more similar videos. Farewell, fellas! For more videos, visit www.fema.gov.au