100 Players Simulate Ship Civilization in Project Zomboid
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MzHY3fBi2_Y
Gaming
 In one of the biggest social experiments ever done in Project Zomboid, I tracked 100 players on a floating city. And with only 1 life and limited resources, how will they survive on here? Will they create governments, form alliances, and try to work together? Or will they neglect their survival, turn on each other, and opt to bring the fate of every player on the ship down with them instead? Only time would tell as the event began. Go go go go go! Wow wow wow wow! Harvesty events, oh my god Harvesty! The game speaking! What's up, what's up, let's go in here together. Hello. No way, I just got bit. I don't know, I'm just going this way. Sprint down! No no no, go back, go back, go back! Don't get bit of it. At the start of the event, all 100 players quickly realized that this floating city wasn't as safe as they might have thought. Because this ship was completely overrun with zombies, and it was up to the players to try and fend for themselves. Bojangles for president! Game speaking! Holy shit! Oh there's zombies! Oh my god! What is happening? Look out! I'll save you! Bojangles will protect you! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! Get off me! Get off me! No! No! Get off! No! No! After noticing so many players dying alone to zombies, a lot of the players started to try and work together, forming various groups to increase their chances of survival. And soon, one of the largest groups began to form, looking to be the sole authority on the ship. This was the law. A group who after looting the only gunspawn on here was gathering more and more members by the second. Hello everyone! I was a veteran in the war, I'm willing to help out! I'm just an old man, but my body is strong! Disregarding that, having a well-stocked authority like this was important because the players on the ship were given only one task going into this, to hold an election. Now while it will be completely hosted by the players, there was one thing that the elected player would receive, and that would be the captain's hat, providing anyone who wears it with power. And while it wasn't specified exactly how at the time, the players knew that this hat would have a massive impact later on in the civilization. And while that might be a good reason to try and win, it also put a huge target on your back. But there was one law member who didn't mind the attention, because he had some unique ideas to bring to the ship. This is Bojangles the Clown, a player with a mission to legalize cannibalism on the ship. While I'm not sure if this would be the best plan to get elected, I will give it to him that is a pretty bold campaign strategy. And he was seemingly confident in his success when he was interviewed by a player named Sam. Alright Mr. Bojangles, I got a simple question. What is your main plan? I think a big problem we're going to run into on this ship is a lack of food. So if we legalize cannibalism, the problem really solves itself. Oh okay, okay then. What do you plan on doing with the security? Yeah, so if we just disassemble the government, I think we'll run into a lot less problems with the government. While Bojangles wasn't really wrong about the government, maybe he'd have some different ideas for the economy. Yeah, if we just don't have an economy, it can never go down. Well, with one of the only actively campaigning nominees wanting to have basically full on anarchy, it wasn't looking too good for the players on the ship. And on top of that, after gathering more players, the leader of law, Baked Bean, took it upon themselves to already start preparations for the election. Alright, let's all follow Sheriff Baked Bean. I don't know where we're going. Sounds good. Hey, where Sheriff's going, I'll follow. So many people moving. This might just lag the server by them just moving as a group. That's crazy. What? For our election? Yo, yeah. Oh yeah, this is it. Oh yeah, this is it. Everyone quiet. Baked Bean is the sheriff. He's the leader of law, so he's the sheriff. First thing we need to do before we start deciding on judges and shit, we need to try to contact the other groups and get them here to this location. With that plan, the law started to do just that, gathering as many players as they could to the courthouse for the election. But I'm not sure if all players would be receptive to a clan taking up authority of the ships so quickly. Harry party everybody to the courthouse. You're going to have elections everybody. You guys look like uh... Yes sir. Yes sir. Shit, it's the feds. What's up, feds? Hey. Hey boys. Oh, hey. Don't consent to illegal searches. Yeah, oh yeah, let's check this door here. Fuck 12. After already getting blatantly disrespected, even with the brewing discontent with law, a few other members started to let this newfound power get to their head. Is there food in there? Hold on, let me hop right in there. What's going on man? Okay, yep, maybe I will just leave. That sphere is quite threatening. You have a nice day. Oh, pretty old. Oh, am I not allowed in there? Holy shit. I'll walk in. Hey, who's this guy? Hey, hey. I'm just a law man. I'm just a law man. Maybe I will not go over there. Yeah, maybe I won't. Hey, come here. Come here law man. How about, how about, no. Hey, whoa, whoa, whoa. Yeah. Are you threatening me? No, you come here holding a weapon? That's a little threatening. I'm just saying. I'm not going to come over there. And if you take another step, I will pull out my shotgun. I'm threatening you because you said come here now with a weapon in your hand. That was accident. Okay, well, I'm still a little on edge. You know what I mean? It's not a threat. I'm just saying. Be on your way, amigo. Okay. You already made your threats. Okay, okay. After needlessly threatening a small faction, the law members were kind of digging their own grave at this point. And then, for some reason, after a large number of players actually showed up to the courthouse, the law decided to do this. Where is this? Guys, where the hell is this? Where the hell is this? This is a great warehouse. Now they're saying it's in 30 minutes. Bro, 30 minutes? 15. I'm out 15 in charge of this. This is a shambles. Yeah, no, the law officers are doing a terrible job at this. We need some actual order and the law is not doing it. With the players already getting fed up with law's actions, a new faction was forming. One wanting to be free of this self-proclaimed authority. Sprinter down. Sprinter down. All right, I'm making a faction. Hey, listen, people. We're going to represent the free folk of this ship, okay? That's our name now. We're the free folk, okay? The free folk. Okay. The free folk. With the free folk formed, after being outspoken against the law, they started to attract players who showed a similar discontent for authorities. What is that? Look at this truck. It's in really good condition. Hey, who is this? Who's this following us around? Well, I heard you guys weren't happy with the law and like, I really hate those guys. Well, who decided they're in charge? That's what I don't understand. It's people just taking control, you know? They set the time, we have the elections, they set the conditions, they choose the location. Like, what are we even doing here? This is not democratic. Yeah, and that's what I'm going to speak on. I can already tell you, you're a great speaker, Peaches, I trust. Now, Fancy Orb was just talking about Peaches. A member of Free who intended to run for captain. While you might think it's hypocritical for the free folk to recognize law's authority by participating in the election, the free folk had a strategy to use this election for their advantage against the law. Look, do we want to win this election? Yeah, we want Peaches to be at the top of the food chain, okay? But listen, we gotta remember at our core what we are, okay? We're the free folk. So Peaches, if you win that spot, we get rid of these fucking, we don't want any people representing the law in our ship, you know what I mean? That's just, that's a way to make corruption. That's ridiculous. He's a dude, thing like the law is corrupted. That's what you're trying to say. Who made them the law? They just decided on it. If that's not corruption, you tell me what is. But we can't let them run a corrupt election without us present. Yeah, you're right. We need to be there. Alright, let's make our way to this election. Now, strategizing to go against the authority of the ship was dangerous with only one life, especially since law had most of the guns, but the free folk had values that they wanted to stand by. Let's make sure Peaches is elected first so we can ensure the freedom of the people on this boat. We don't want any corrupt lawmakers determining what happens. We're heading to the courthouse which is right over here. Don't forget, vote for Peaches is a vote for the people. Leaving free to continue on to the courthouse, before the election begins, we have to talk about this. This is a collection of all the propaganda that was circulated before the event by the players advocating for themselves to be elected for captain. Past that massive amount of Bojangles propaganda, you see a lot for a man named Henry. Now, Henry was a leader of a pretty small group who was actively working with law to get the election going. And as he had his back from someone close to law, he had a pretty in-depth plan for the economy if he had one captaincy. What is your main plan? Well, first of all, I think that we need to invest in security. There's already a police force going on so make sure that we have a good communication with them and they're well funded. And I'm planning for actually economic changes so we're gonna be like, you can have a business, you can have like an industry, you can have whatever you want. We're gonna make sure that we can actually have the hospital for people, we're gonna grow crops in there in the gardens, and then people can trade stuff for food from the gardens. If we do that, we'll be able to actually have a good economic system. While those were a lot of promises to uphold, at least Henry had a plan. Unlike Bojangles, who wasn't having the best time trying to gain support. Ahem! Hello, it's me, Bojangles the Clown. I'm running for boat president, vote for Bojangles. Things will change or they won't. That is all, thank you. I don't like the sound of that. After not gaining any support from his fellow law members, he then left the law faction and opted to join a group who would be a little bit more accepting of his vision. At least that's what he thought. Bojangles, you wanna join us? Hell yeah bro, of course I wanna join you. We're gonna run the best fucking bar on this side of the ship. Hell yeah. Faction tag bar. Oh, oh, oh. For the bar man, we gotta be able to serve the clients man. Now look, I'm gonna run for boat president. I have an idea. I'll vote for you. We can have infinite food at this here bar. All we gotta do is elect me president, I legalize cannibalism, and then we beat people up behind the bar, we cook them, and we feed them to our patrons. I don't know about that. Okay, it was just an idea. I was just floating an idea. It was just an idea. It was just an idea. I don't know. Oh, it's cra- Yeah, that's crazy. Why would we do that? That's crazy. After getting his idea shot down by his new faction, it wasn't looking too great for Bojangles. But I will say, as time went on, the players really started to notice the limited resources of the ship. In the last Civilization, I trapped 100 players in the mall, and just the grocery store in there had more food than all the ship combined. My point is, it didn't take too long for players to get a bit lenient on their morals and start to actually listen to Bojangles' message. We're starving! All I'm saying is that with the food situation, we might have to vote in Bojangles for the cannibalism. Let's wait for these guys. We can do what we want. But regardless, it was time for this election to begin. And while you're watching this, just note, this was entirely run by the players. So if one single person started attacking randomly, this could end super violently. And even though they were unhappy with them, the players still put their trust in law to keep them safe. And they also had to put their trust in a man named DL Clever, a random volunteer who was picked by law to lead this election. No weapons in the courthouse. Who decided no weapons in the courthouse? We need to be able to defend ourselves guys. Yeah, I'm really confused. Did someone just put themselves in charge? Hey guys, let's get this organized. Can we go ahead and holster all the weapons please? Who is that? Why is he in charge, huh? Okay, so I would like to bring up anyone who would like to run for election. I believe Henry would like to run. I believe there's a certain murderous clown that would like to run. I don't know if he is alive. If we could go ahead and have the first person who would like to speak. Don't worry about the power. Guys that are just coming in, please holster your weapons. Hey guys, show the due process some respect, okay? We're here to have an election. Let's stop yapping, okay? This boat needs to be free of all this chaos. All right, so first candidate is going to be Henry. Henry, if you would like to say your piece. Fellow supporters and friends, fellow citizens, words cannot express how much I am honored and feel to stay here before you as your potential leader and foremost as your public servant. If I'm elected, I am to occupy one of the most important and sacred positions, if not the most important one. And I am responsible for all this, but the responsibility lies all on your hands. And for everywhere you look, there's work to be done. The state of the economy calls for action, bold and swift. And we will act, not only to create new jobs, but to lay a new foundation for growth. Now, there are some who question the scale of our ambition. Now wrap it up, man! Come on! Who suggest our- Anyways, so we're gonna make like an economic system. We're gonna have like the police working and all. We're gonna like get all that registered. What about the food? And the food, the food, I'm gonna get that right now, citizen. The food, we are going to get the entire garden and we're going to plant there. And, and, and I'm not done yet. Food! Get out of here! Someone else! You are done! You're done! We're not time for this! Come on! Those who commit crimes are gonna get punished. Thank you. Thank you. That's so easy. Please look at him now. Settle down, settle down, settle down, settle down. Thank you, Henry. That was a great speech, Henry. That was a great speech. And I'm sure these people care about the economy deeply. But I hear a new sound in this courtroom and it is the grumble of tummy. The tummies grumble! Yeah! Yeah, they do. Yeah. I have a solution, ladies and gentlemen. We've been on this boat for not a very long time and our tummies, they be growly and there's not a lot of food in these fridges. But you look around and what you'll see is a lot of food walking around on two legs. Bojangles votes to legalize cannibalism. I'm sorry. That's the shit. What are you doing? I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. After proposing to legalize cannibalism as his main point, it didn't go too well for Bojangles. But this also heavily affected the next few candidates, because all three of them decided to have their main points just to be refuting what Bojangles said. Ladies and gentlemen, please do not vote for Bojangles. Fuck freedom. Fuck anarchy. I want to live. Food needs to be free. This is a basic human right and murder cannot be allowed, nor cannibalism. Hell yeah. Everyone has brought very good points. I do agree with some. Probably not the clown for obvious reasons, but everyone needs food. We're all hungry. This is about survival in a unison. Vote for captain, not cannibalism. So if you're with me, please vote totally not breathing. Just fuck it. Vote me. That's it. By basically saying the same thing, all three candidates didn't stand out relative to each other. But there was one more candidate who didn't give a speech yet, who was the last chance for this boat to have a true leader that would actually motivate the people. People of the boat, lend me your ears. And all I've heard in this time is that there is a police state request. There's a cannibalism request. This is nonsense. We need to organize. I am here for you to bring you together. To work as a common man next to each other. To bring success to this boat. To bring peace to this boat. To bring food to this boat. Thank you. Vote Peaches. After giving an inspirational speech like that, Peaches could have managed to stand out to the players. The only way to know for sure was to see what the players would decide with their votes. But having 100 players come up with a way to elect people was taking time, giving someone an opportunity to test the security at the courthouse. I've got the names all jotted down. We'll do a head count once we get started. All right. Here's what we're going to do, guys. Can I get everyone in the back room? I could just have all the candidates spread out and then we group around the one who we want. Oh yeah. Yeah. Okay. That's a good idea. All right. All right. That's the point. Yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo. Yo, someone's getting stabbed. Yo, yo. Someone's fighting. Yo, yo, yo, yo, yo. Yo, yo, yo, yo. AZ for Law is attacking. It's the man with the demon mask. Wait, hold on, hold on. He had a Molotov. Check his body. He was about to throw a Molotov. Oh. He was about to throw a Molotov. Oh, he did have a Molotov. A hundred percent. He did. He did. With that attempt to Molotov the courthouse getting shut down by a law member, it seemed that the players were right in trusting them with authority, which caused the feeling around law to lighten up for a moment. Oh, he did have a Molotov. A hundred percent. He did. He did. He saved us all. Oh, man. Good job. He saved us. Did Macy save our lives? He saved us. This one kill could be the action that saves Law's reputation with the players that were still resisting authority. But during this pretty large distraction, another player was making moves. Moves that might change his entire election as a whole. I have no idea where I'm meant. Everyone, Henry and Emerges have decided to run this together and join leadership. So if you're voting for Peaches or Henry, join the room! Peaches and Henry had joined together, which meant the only person who actually laid out a plan was now paired with the best speaker among the candidates. And with the election starting now, let's see if this change would make a difference. Can I get all the candidates to come into the side room here? Everyone else get behind the pews and we will do a head count. Anyone voting for Captain, please come over the bar. Captain for Captain! Captain for Captain! Captain for Captain! Booo! Booo! Booo! Booo! Booo! Booo! Booo! Booooo! Booo! Aight thank you! Thank you! Everyone voting for Kyetsu, please come over the bar! Thank you! Hey, why are you voting for Kyetsu? Hey, I'll tell you what I'm going to tell you. Anyone voting for not breathing! Anyone voting for not breathing! Please come over the bar! If you're not breathing, please come over the bar! Come on! Come on! Come on! You made a right decision, Sition. I'll probably be happy in my life, bro! Please! Please! With Captain being the only one who got a sizable amount of votes, there were still a lot more to go around. It was possible that some players just didn't want to participate. But anyways, let's see if anyone would be able to beat Captain. Starting with everyone's favourite cannibalistic clown. Next would be Bojangles! Everyone voting for Bojangles! I have a feeling no one's going to go across. Whoever goes over that bar. Oh my god! Anyone? Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! After literally getting no support, there was one last chance for the players to vote. Finally letting us see who the captain of the ship would actually be. If you're voting for Henry or Peaches, please come over the bar. At the same time, we both at the same time. Everyone voting for Henry and Peaches, come over the bar. Come over the bar! It's a little bit of a telly. People! I think there's a clear winner. I'm not gonna lie. Yeah! Yeah! Yes! My account! Let's go! The President! Actually, I guess it's co-presidency. Would be Peaches and Henry. Let's go! Yeah! Yeah! Yeah! Yeah! Everyone, our first task is to organize into farmers, scavengers, foragers, and start figuring out how to build our homes, get our food supply. It's not gonna be quick. It's not gonna be easy. But when we work together, many hands will make light work. I like this guy. Yes! Listen, listen, listen everybody, okay? There is only one hat. This hat will mean you're the captain. Whoever has the hat is the captain. Peaches and Henry, please take the hat. Whoever takes it, it is theirs. You are the sole captain. Deal with it. Henry! Let's go Peaches! Are you ready? Are you ready? Are you ready? I'm ready Peaches! Oh Peaches! He's the captain! Let's go! Let's go! Come on, Nick! Let's go! Let's go! With Peaches becoming the captain, this could be the beginning of a civilization of prosperity and peace on the ship. But this would only be true if everyone respected the captain's authority. But one man was insulted by the election. So much in fact that he wanted revenge. Not only on the captain, but on the people protecting him as well. Hello friends! Hello, man! What's going on boys? Hey, yo! Mr. Paul, I need a heavy slab of beer. Alright, come on down! I'll take you to the bar right now! Let's fucking go, dude! Let's fucking go! Oh boy! We got beer! Woah! What a place it is! Yeah, it's nice, huh? It's a beautiful place. Let's do a cheeky trade for some beer and meat, bro! What kind of meat? You can't eat the zombies you eat. That'll make you sick. I've got some shrimp! We've got a piece of shrimp! You got shrimp? Yo, throw it on the barbie! Throw it on the ground! Where'd you get shrimps? I found it! No! No! No! No! Oh, man! Take him upstairs! Somebody clean up the blood! This is what you wanted! Alright! No! Get this pinball machine out of my fucking way! I kind of feel bad! No, no, no, no, no! Don't feel bad! We gotta eat! Our tummies are hungry! You can't feel guilty about it! We should bring people up here! We should bring people up here! We should bring people up here! We should bring people up here! We're doing what we have to do! If they had just elected me president, we wouldn't have to do this! We could have eaten criminals! After brutally murdering two law members, Bojangles was not only becoming a problem for the Law Clan, but for the entirety of the ship! But he wasn't the only issue that the players on the ship would have to deal with right now! As at the entrance of the ship, something much, much larger and more dangerous was forming! And the walls, they're coming! They're coming! How many are there? A lot? Nah! There's a lot! Get out! Oh shit! There is a lot! Where's everybody else? They're pussies! They're not fighting! I feel like we got abandoned by our leadership! We're the ones who are doing all the work! We deserve to be leaders here right now! Seriously! Don, do you agree with me? Oh my goodness! This was a massive horde! One that would require teamwork from multiple groups on the ship, and one group did step up, proving themselves yet again to be trusted as the authority. With the Law leader Baked Bean calling for their whole faction to fight this horde, this was pretty unexpected to see from them, as they've been unappreciated by most of the other players on the ship up to this point. But even with all of Law helping, this was still a huge horde! And despite having most of the weapons and guns, the Law weren't invincible. We gotta fight these zombies! Defend the ship! Defend the ship! This fucking zombie horde, boys! Good god! Fuck! Don't fall out of what this timeline is fucking doing! No, the captain! The sheriff! The sheriff! The sheriff! The sheriff! The sheriff! Oh fuck! Fuck no! Oh no! Oh no! No! Oh no! Oh no! Oh no! Oh no! Oh no! Oh no! Oh no! Oh no! Oh no! They lost one! If you couldn't tell what happened because of how quick that was, that was the leader of law Baked Bean dying to the horde. With their leader dead, the members of law were pretty instantly starting to lose their organization. Who's the leader of law? Uh, Baked Beans. Where's Baked Beans at? We don't know. Yeah, I was heading to the front of the ship for the horde. I think Baked Beans dead. I think the law is stepping up and uh... Baked Beans is dead. Yeah. Oh shit! Yeah, Sarge is dead. He's at the foot of the stairs. No! He died valiantly. He's on the front front line. My brother! Who's the leader of the law now? Who's the leader of the law now? Who's the leader? Who's the leader? We're lawless now I guess. With law losing two members and becoming lawless, the players at the entrance started to quickly lose control of the horde. We gotta get his flag. Oh, law man, we gotta get the sheriff's flag. Where is he? He's at the bottom of the right stairs. I have to get my brother down. I'm already bit so I mean... Too many. I just don't have anything cause I'm so hungry I can barely swing dude. We're not leaving you behind Sarge. Yo, watch out! You're getting hit! Watch out! I'll get Sarge's body! I need food! I can't fight like this! That's all we have. We have to fight. There's no point in that. Protect the board! That guy goes. Protect the board! Protect the board! Left in peace. With the player dying while attempting to recover Baked Bean's body, and with so many others dying to protect the safety of the ship, it'd make you wonder, where is a newly elected captain? Well instead of fighting on the front lines, he was completely safe, talking with his co-captain at Free's base. I just wanted you to know that things haven't been going so great so far. If there's any point that I pass on, you have to live on our message. Of course. But we will not lose this hat by force. Guys, guys, listen. All this political red tape is fine and all, but we need to get some shit done, okay? We're trying to survive out here, so... No, hey look, we were waiting for the Horde to be done with, and then to downstruck people to start farming and building. Now while it's good to not risk dying as a newly elected captain, Peaches was not giving a great first impression, not even trying to lead taking down the Horde, and it wouldn't take too long for players to notice this lack of help from the ship's leadership. It's like the general not on the front lines, because look now they're losing people! No! The capt- uh, is anyone gonna call them out? Like, the captains are not helping, they're not directing. They need to be on the front lines. Hey, I need- I need more on these stairs. You getting overrun, man? Uh, no, I'm dead. You good? Jarrus? No! Another one, no. Let's collect his body. Let's bury it somewhere nice. Officer, these people again! Bit! Get on the front lines! Get away from Sarge! Captain, there's gonna be Horde! Sarge, no! I'm scared! It's okay, we're with you buddy. Listen, the president might not help you, the captain of the ship might not help you, but we will! Now, this person leading the defense is a man named Sarge, who is actually taking charge and leading like the captain should be right now. I got bit. We can cut it off if it's on your arm. Yeah, it's on my hands. Alright, we gotta get a saw. Come with me, we'll help you out. Everyone listen up, we gotta find Wizard of Saw. He got bit on the hand and we need to chop it off so we can survive. Hey! What's up, Sarge? It's good to see you still alive. We're trying to find a saw, do you have one? Someone got bit on the hand. I don't have a saw. Everyone use the stairs as a choke point. Stay on the front lines, people! You can do this! We're all in this together. Now, Sarge had actually given a speech during the election, and during that speech, he said this. I'm an old man, but I'm a voice for the young. We will work together and we will get through this. These corrupt lawmen, they'll try to take our freedom from us. Going from calling the law faction corrupt to spending 10 real-life minutes calling out to players, attempting to find a saw to save one of their members, Sarge was continuing to look like the leader of the ship really needed if the captains didn't step up and help. But after the players taking on the horde decided to literally firebomb the zombies, burning the bridge leading to the ship, the remaining zombies became a lot more manageable. And that's finally when the captain showed up. Everyone to the meeting, Hoff! There's no more horde! Everyone to the meeting, the horde is done. Get to the courthouse. The horde is done, get to the courthouse. The horde is done, get to the courthouse! To the courthouse, everybody! What are we doing about the food situation? I'm starving here! That's what we're gonna meet about! We're gonna talk about it and get it done! You can't- don't eat the zombie meat! I'm not gonna do that! I hope he's got a real plan for this, or people are gonna start eating each other real quick. Although I know who's first up on the list, guys. Peaches, where were you at? They're running to defend! We assigned people to that horde and everyone split up. Everyone went to their own groups. So we're gonna talk now about how to work together. Listen, all of us voted for leadership, and I get that. But it means nothing if we're just going to devise into our separate groups and do our own thing. We need to start working as a team, because if we don't, it's just gonna be everyone for themselves. Everyone pointing fingers and everyone killing each other. I have a question for the presidency. Where were you when the horde came? Uh, we- everyone said, hey, captain, stay in this house and we'll go deal with the horde. That was exactly what we were told about. Can someone tell me who told them that in here? Who told them that? I lost good men out there. I can't believe that. A real leader would lead from the front. We all deal with that. We've all lost people. Now we can either sit here and argue into oblivion, or we can actually get food, get buildings, and make it happen. We need a leader that actually fights with the people, not hide in a fucking house. Bojangles, we need a two-piece-stick. Now that's something I wanted to address. Bojangles, please come forward. Now Bojangles, tell me, are you full right now? Have you, uh, had your fill of food? Am I full right now? I had a few zombie steaks. Uh, they were not very filling. I didn't feel very good. And, uh, we've been scavenging. We found some crickets below deck and we've been eating those. Oh, so just crickets? Crickets? Mostly crickets and zombie meat, yes. Yeah, what's really interesting about that is crickets don't scream, help, help me, I'm a human, I'm dying. Who, uh, who said anything about that? I have an idea. Does this answer the question about you fighting with us? We take no fuck this administration, let's go. Look, and just like that, you guys don't want to work together. You want to do your own thing. Yeah, fuck the president. Fuck all of them. Let's go. Brother hid in a room while we were fighting them. That's, no. What? They used the excuse, oh someone told us to stay there? Yeah, bro, this isn't like the fucking presidency of the United States, man. This is survival. We're all on the ship together. What the hell is that? We need someone who's gonna prove that they'll fight for the people. Absolutely insane. Now, these people who just left early were part of a group named Ira, who weren't the only ones who were willing to openly speak up against the captain. I'm sure you're not happy with the starvation. And I'm sure you're not happy with being called to meetings constantly. I'm thinking we need a more liberal government with the people in power. I'm thinking our captain needs to appoint people. The hell? In every group. I thought that's all the heck. We just appointed a farm team. It's very working, I'm afraid. It's been two minutes. Let's see how it goes. I don't think protesting is the solution for now, but if it gets any worse, then I think we should- Don't worry, Sarge. Bojangles will be captain by the end of the day. Before someone like Bojangles takes the captain's hat by force, Peaches really needs to step up his game and prove himself worthy of this position. But speaking about the hat, as I said, there were advantages that came with owning it. But it was still a long wait until the captain would benefit from them. But for now, Peaches was benefiting from something else, which was actually Henry. Before I mentioned that Henry was the only one with a plan in the election, and now we were finally seeing his plan come to fruition. Yeah, let's go. We got this. We're going to farm. You guys can choose any of the places you want. Back one here. We'll do a couple. We'll do a couple. Yeah, you just gotta remove them. You gotta feed the people. Man, I'm gonna tell you people are not happy, man. Only so much you can do, Henry. Yeah, I made like a dozen people pancakes earlier. Ran out real quick. Yeah, I want. There were some good pancakes though. Yeah. They were so fluffy and delicious. I don't know. This was the beginning of an actual farm on the ship, led by Henry and operated by a clan named the Grass Gurus, who had a pretty monumental task of trying to feed 100 already starving players with farms that wouldn't yield food for hours. How could the players survive this hunger crisis with barely any food left on the ship? If only there was something that the players could eat that was easy to make, tasty, and affordable. Well, let me introduce you to this video's sponsor. Factor. Factor is a meal delivery service that provides you with fresh, never frozen, ready to eat meals that take just 2 minutes to make. Letting you get back to the more important things in life. Also, Factor has over 35 meals to choose from each week, combining multiple different meal and lifestyle preferences like calorie smart, vegan, vegetarian, and even keto diets. With plans ranging from 4-18 meals per week, you can have already prepped meals delivered right to your doorstep. So there's no need to experience the dangers of going too far outside. I personally tried Factor myself, and honestly the convenience of having meals that taste better than anything I could make while being cheaper than going out to eat is worth it in my opinion. Especially for people like me whose most used kitchen appliance might be a microwave. Go to go.factor75.com and use code HARVESTJAN50 for 50% off and free shipping on your first box. Click the link in the description or scan the QR code with your phone. And thank you Factor so much for sponsoring this video. Coming back to the ship, since he couldn't just order food to be delivered, Henry was working hard to lead the start of an actual sustainable food source for his people. And even though he was trying his best, Henry's efforts to fix the hunger problem were not even being recognized by the players. Yeah, supposedly Henry stands for peace and prosperity, but I honestly couldn't believe it any less. I don't believe the authenticity in that. What is your opinion on this situation so far? People are gonna start eating each other man. 100%. Yeah. 100%. Isn't there also just cannibals too? Like somewhere? Probably. And we had, there was those people you told us about, Massey stalking people with baseball bats, so. I think they're in bar now. Speaking about the cannibals in bar, they were actually trying to take advantage of this food situation, luring desperate players into the bar through any way that they could. Yeah, frying up a storm in here. Bojangle cooking. What you think is gonna taste better, people or Zambi's? Damn, there's only one way to find out. You think I'm gonna have to think it's better? I'm thinking there's a lot of free meals walking around on this ship. Yeah. Oh yeah, definitely. Now I'm thinking we all go around to the- I think we need to go, uh, I think we go find someone to bring back here. That's exactly what I'm pro- exactly. Yeah, that sounds good. That sounds reasonable. Dinner served, boys! Hello friend! We've got food at the bar! Oh, food at the bar. Assemble at least, anyone. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey, what's up? Uh, it says, uh, disoriented. Starting to hear sounds, maybe eating that meat wasn't such a good idea. Oh, brother. Oh, shit. Do you- you- Oh. What does that mean? They're all upstairs. Oh, they're all upstairs. Here, come. Oh, yeah. No, I'm not turning. We gotta eat people. Yeah, we gotta go. We gotta get it fresh. We gotta kill people. Okay, yeah, maybe I'm leaving. Yeah. This is the bar. Hey, no, no, no. Come here, hey, hey, come back! Yeah, I'm good. I have a shotgun. He knows too much. I don't think you want to approach me. No, no, no, we're cool. I would like to be left alone. We're cool, bro. I'd like to be left alone. I'd like to be left alone. It was just a joke. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Just- I- I- yeah. That's not good. He knows too much. Fuck. After letting a player escape from their trap, the bar clan were getting a bit sloppy and letting other players know that they're actively trying to kill people. But with most people on the ship currently starving, I'm not sure if anyone would really care, as more players turned to cannibalism to survive. But some players did care, and stood for their morals even if it meant they would die for doing so. Listen. Hey, come over here. I can give you this, okay? Listen. It's gonna cause some stuff, okay? But it's survival of the fittest. You just might hear a thing or two, that's all. Oh, oh, it's delicious. D- did you guys eat- What do you say? Brenna? Brenna? Brenna? Don't worry about it, okay? We're keeping the free folk alive, alright? Are we supposed to be like dead? They were already dead, Brenna. They were already dead, okay? So why are you disrespecting their pets even more? Listen. Brenna, do you wanna die here? Do you wanna die on this fuckin' boat? Okay? Cause you're gonna die. I- no, I- I don't. Then what are you gonna eat, Brenna? Then what are you gonna eat? I'd rather starve. Well then you will starve. And- and can I just say, I don't want you to starve, Brenna. I don't want you to starve, but somebody's gotta keep us alive so we can live on. How dare you fush in our king. Come upstairs, come upstairs. I'm gonna- I'm gonna shower about a knife. Where's the knife? I need that. Hey, where are you going? Hey, hey, Brenna, get here! Get back here, Brenna. Get back here, don't walk away from us! We're gonna have some fuckin' problems, Brenna. Brenna! Don't you fuckin' walk away from us, you hear me? You can't just run away like that, Brenna! Hey, we do got some problems! Brenna's turning against us! Brenna's turning against us! Kill Brenna! Kill Brenna! Kill Brenna! Kill Brenna! Oh my god! You guys are literally gonna kill me for not wanting to eat a dead thing? Holy fuck. Get Brenna! Kill Brenna! What are you doing? Get your ass! Brenna's trying to turn against us! How dare you betray us, Brenna! What? Brenna was trying to turn against us! Brenna was working against us! Take the body, quick! What? What were they doing? Seriously? Unbelievable. Let's go. Unreal! How do you know? Keza had just murdered someone from his own clan named Brenna B. A player who joined Free at the start because they were a clan wanting to be free of authority, but apparently not a clan where you can freely express your own concerns or opinions. The worst part about this is Brenna was someone who actually cared about the players on the ship as they were a part of the initial horde defense, only stopping when they were on the absolute brink of death. And now, any future that they had on the ship was taken away from them because of the actions of one man. But if you remember, the captain Peaches was also a part of Free. So, is the captain on board with this? Well, after that murder, Keza then spent the next 10 minutes trying to convince his team that Brenna turned against them. We were down there talking to Brenna, explaining how we need to get some food, we need to go downstairs, and Brenna was like, I don't know if the Free Folk are really on board with what, like, basically implying that the Free Folk didn't have the same vision. And so he said, what do you mean, Brenna? You can't talk about that. Then Brenna starts running out of nowhere, and Fancy and I are like, wait, Brenna, come back, we wanna talk, we wanna talk. And then she swung on us, bro. She swings at us. What? And naturally, because of the setup, she couldn't do anything. And I was like, then Brenna's not on board with the Free Folk. While that was pretty much a complete lie, this wasn't the only time Keza and his goon Fancy Orb targeted a player on the ship. As they had someone from another clan in their sights, and they weren't hiding it this time. We just talked to Free, and I think they're after you, I'm not 100% sure though. What are they after me for? Uh, cause you're killing some people. Killing people? You know, something like three guys. Oh, no, I wasn't killing people, we were fighting zombies. Yeah. I might have accidentally hit them. I know, I believe you, but that's what they're looking for you for. Yeah, you're gonna have to talk to Free to, you know, lower 10. Yeah. Yeah, thanks for the heads up. I'll talk to them, cause we were out here fighting all those zombies, clearing them out. Honestly, I wouldn't talk to them yourself, I'd have one of your guys who talk to them, cause I don't want them to kill you, you know? How aggro were they? They weren't, uh, wholly aggro, but they did say that it's a common enemy at the moment. Now, Free was already acting aggressive towards this law member named Macy, which was honestly pretty justified, because it looked like they killed one of Free's members. But Free wasn't coming after just any member of law. Yeah, I'm trying to get my group together, so, cause right now we're kinda scattered, a lot of my guys died. Do you have like a chosen leader or? I don't think so. I mean, right now I'm gonna group everyone together and figure that out, but I wouldn't mind leading. If anything, I guess I'll be the interim leader. After losing their leader baked beans to the Horde, Macy had opted to replace them, becoming the new leader of the ship's authority faction. But with this ship being so small and cramped, it'd only be a matter of time until Macy bumped into the members of Free, which would be a real test if the new leader of law could actually deescalate the situation, or let it turn into an all out war. Oh, hey Macy! Hey! Hey, what's up? Hey guys! You are welcome, spiky ass person. Oh, Macy, how you doing? I've been seeing you're doing a lot of killing in the chat, what's going on with that? That was because we were fighting here, there was a lot of lagging, so I might have hit. Oh, the lag, right. Oh, an accident, yeah. I think I remember seeing you killed two people. Some one accident and then they died of a zombie. I think I remember seeing you killed two people. All of those people were my friends. T-Mew. That was here, that was here, they died here. He died to a zombie. Yeah, well, do you have any of these buddies or like, yeah. It's amazing that you killed them, so I just want to know what happened. If I, the way the game works is if I hit someone and then they died to a zombie, it'll say I killed them. Oh, so you weren't even here is what you're saying. No, I was here fighting the zombies, accidentally hit them. Oh, so you were here when he died. We all were, everybody was put in trying to kill zombies on the street. Yeah, a lot of people died. I guess there was no witnesses other than you guys, I guess? It was all of law, it was a bunch of other factions, it was a lot of chaos. That's the only one. Oh yeah, just any one in particular? I'm gonna tell you something right here, all right, shut up. You killed one of my friends, all right, and that's the second time I've seen you kill someone in the chat. And just let you know there are other- I, I, I, I not killed them. Shut up, Maisie. A zombie killed them. There are other factions who are seeing this and are not happy with this decision. Other factions who are here fighting. So why don't you just watch it? If you wanna go speak with Peaches. If you wanna go speak with Peaches. If they're not here, if they're not here, I will bring you to Peaches. Go, go speak with Peaches. Go, go speak with Peaches. Go, go. I already spoke with him. Fancy, Fancy, relax. Sorry, he's, alright. You're getting away to aggro, man. He was very close to Timo, you say, so. After that confrontation, it was pretty hypocritical of Keza and Fancy Orb to call up the faction that sacrificed so many of their own lives to protect the ship while the free folk were waiting safely in their base. But I am surprised that they were actually able to come to reason, especially their leader Keza, who seemed to usually opt for murder or manipulation. However, there was something that happened that would change their mind pretty quickly. Yeah, wait, hold on, Keza, really quick. I just, I just want it said, I, I did not kill Timo. I accidentally hit them. A zombie killed Timo. What? Fancy? What happened? Fancy! What happened? What happened to him? Why, he just, oh, here, here, back up, back up. Don't, don't, don't lose the body. He just died! Come on, guys. Just, just like Keza. What happened? Captain! A group of. Captain! Yeah. He just died! Oh my god, he just died! I don't know what happened! Who is that? No, Fancy, my friend! He just died! Who is that? Who is that? He is a triple metal heart rare Nobel Prize, and my best friend, and he's dead! Peaches, he was just, he was talking to that Maisie guy, and then he just died! He was murdered! I don't know what to do. He was murdered by Maisie! I can't murder! He killed him! He was murdered by Maisie! Yeah, Maisie! Well, he was talking to Maisie, and then he was dead! Well, that doesn't mean murder, he could have had an infection! Well, what do you think happened to him, huh? Of course, after mysteriously losing his goon, Fancy Orb, Keza took this as an opportunity to yet again try and manipulate the members of his own clan. Because there was no way that he was sure Maisie killed Fancy Orb. He could have starved, died from an infection, or had been inadvertently killed by all of the zombie meat that he was fed by Keza. But the question is, why would Keza do this? Was it out of the hatred for authority that he preached at the start, a way to try to prop up his own faction, or out of a cynical desire to see this all end in flames and anarchy? Whatever it was, Keza was a real danger to the piece, and it'd only be a matter of time until his words caused real violence between groups. Speaking about violence though, before Keza could continue to try and manipulate peaches, that same player Rotz that almost got eaten by Barr before had finally found his way to the captain to try and warn him, but a Barr member was not too far from the captain when he explained this. I was looking for food, and Barr pulled me out to the side, and they were like, here, come in here. And then I tried to run away, and they were like, he knows too much. Get him. They're a little aggressive. Barr is too much of a problem. Let's be careful. Hey, Syllabic, do you have anything to say about- Syllabic?! Oh, no, no, no, no, no. It's not gonna take this long. A little bit different. Oh, shit. Yeah, that's kinda what it tastes like. Guys, they're fuckin' onto us. What are they onto? The captains are- Talking to people. Oh, Bojang. Hey boys. Bro, they're onto us. They know, man. They know that we're cannibals. I don't know why you guys keep talking about it. Just gotta lay low, man. So, the clan that already murdered two players, attempted to murder another one, and had a member that literally had their whole candidacy revolving around legalizing cannibalism, somehow didn't want the word to get around that they were cannibals? I don't know what they were expecting would come from all this. On top of that, during the initial confusion around Fancy Orb's death earlier, a bar member named Fish decided to do something relatively insane directly in front of the camp. I need to go talk to Macy about this. President, I'll take him. I'll go give him a proper burial. Yeah, Mr. President. Is Macy at their base? Where's Macy? I don't know. I don't know where they went. Where? Okay, hang on. Macy! Oh, oh. This is- Bro, wait, did you take it? What the fuck? Keza, where is he? Where'd his body go? Where the hell did his body go? The bar clan took it. What? What the fuck? They can't do that! He said he's gonna get him a proper burial. No, he can't take out man! Where'd he go? Now, stealing Fancy Orb's body from right in front of Free was daring to say the least. This would not only shift the sights of Keza and Peaches on the bar, but also start to cause some arguments regarding what to do about this. Nah, Captain, you can't let this stand. You can't let this stand. They stole my friend. We're gonna find him. We need to find him. We don't want him carving up my friend. What do you want me to do? You want me to magically just make him a burial, Captain? I don't want him to carve up my boy! Listen, I think you're gonna have to move on from this. What'd you say to me? I think there's more pressing matters. We can not just move on from this. I think there's more pressing matters. We can not just move on from this. I think there's more pressing matters. We can not just move on from this. I don't care about the whole boat! I care about my dead friend! While it's justified to be mad about losing your friend's body, as Sarge mentioned, it's arguable that the captain should divert all of his focus to this one issue. But that's why the captain had Henry as his co-captain. Right? Well, amidst the whole hunger problem on the ship, Henry decided to sustain himself with maggots from zombie corpses. In doing so, he sustained an illness. And paired with him still starving, things weren't looking too great for Henry. There you go. He's uh, shit, shit, fuck. I'm not feeling very well. Oh no, Henry. What happened? Uh, no, no, I was hungry. I ate some maggots. Oh, no. I don't think I can die from that. I'm not doing very well. It's not very presidential of me to die like this, so. If I'm gonna die, I gotta die in style. Help me! Fuck! In the meantime, Henry died from eating the maggots! Oh my god! What? Henry is dead. Isn't he like the second, uh, that was the second in command. Oh shit! I got it. What's going on? Oh no! Henry died! Peaches, Henry died. What?! He ate a maggot and he died from that. That's what I was told. I was told he died from eating a maggot. What the fuck?! I don't know. I really don't know. He's dead. It says in chat. Where is Henry's body? I don't know what's going on right now, but you're the only captain left. This was a pretty tragic death. Instead of properly feeding himself, he decided to focus on getting the farm set up to feed the other players on the ship, and now he was dead because of it. And so, with Henry gone, Peaches was now the actual sole captain of the ship. And speaking about Peaches, with Barr and Law Leader Macy both targets of free and a massive crowd in the center of the ship, it'd only be a matter of time until the captain got word of this crowd and started a conflict. But something would come up that would save this from escalating. Where the hell? Barr! Hey, the captain ain't dead. Look at him right away. Hey, Peaches! Hey, Peaches! Hang on, hang on! I found her! What happened to my friend Fancy? I, the only thing I think what happened is he had a deep laceration, removed advantage, and walked away and died. So the next event is starting now, okay? Oh shit. You know your directions in zone, boys. Shut up, Harvest! I'm in this! Shut up! Shut up, Harvest! Now this was me talking to everyone in the discord stage announcing the next event. While it's not the greatest timing in regards to this conflict, this event was livestreamed on my Harvest Z channel so we had a schedule that was already set. Also, if you like to play in these civilization events yourself, join the discord in the description below! They're completely free to play! All you have to do is apply for the event pass in this channel using the bot that we developed just for these events! We also have two community servers for our discord that are PvE with PvP zones, including frequent large scale events that just like these civilizations push the absolute limits of zombies, such as our seasonal last stand events, Spifflecon, and much, much more! Thank you to everyone who joins our community and let's see what this event really is! The south side of the ship, there are around 6-8 hatches that are opening, okay? Once you go down there, there's a big open compartment with a bunch of food, guns, ammo, and everything that you need right now! Go, go, go! Everyone! Go, go, go! Listen, we cannot hoard! I have little nothing! We cannot hoard! We cannot go in yet! Are they going too far? They're all on this side! We're gonna close off this bridge! While a good amount of players were having difficulties finding the hatches, it didn't take too long until some found their way to the cache! Fuck it, we ball! People are playing! Oh, they're down there! The first ones are dying! Oh, shit! But I feel like it's asking to die! Are they gonna start fighting for it? Guys, I found it! Kietzo found it! IRF, I found it! Why are you telling people? Don't tell people! Yeah, I'm in! Get to the rooftop! Get in the houses! Oh, Jango's gonna get a katana! How's it going, guys? What did it even look like? There's still stuff in there, man. Go in there. No game! Oh my god! Now, with everyone checking out the loot down here, you'd expect a fight to break out with a massive amount of new weapons being picked up. But instead, the players seem to act friendly towards each other, including this man named Ricky Lang, who helped the same bar clan member who stole Fancy Ord's body before. Y'all got a found bag? I'll trade him! No, you have a needle and thread? Do you need stitching? Yeah, I need stitching! I can stitch you. Where you at? I'm in the shipping container down below as well. It's Ricky Lang! Ricky Lang can do the stitching. Where you at? Oh, right here! I'm right here! Got you! On my left forearm! It might just be... Yeah, I appreciate you, man. Thank you! My pleasure, dude. You'll be right as rain! Now, Ricky Lang is the leader of the Grass Gurus, the same group that we saw before starting to farm to help with the hunger crisis. This was yet another example of this group acting selflessly to help others, which you'd see them continue to do later on in the event. Anyways, because of the influx in food to all players on the ship, this brought them some time to not worry about their hunger, and instead to focus on still being pretty friendly to each other, especially this group in particular, named NCR. You be looking great, no one! Hey! Yeah, y'all look cool! What? I don't have an arm, how does that look cool? Huh? It looks so cool! It's so cool! It looks so cool, man! I think it's pretty cool! Goddamn, Scylla, that's a nice looking spaz on you! Honestly, spaz is one of my favourite shotguns. There's like no hate on this entire bullet, everybody loves each other. Everybody's being pretty friendly! It's cool! Now, this friendly NCR clan was a group located in the bridge of the ship, led by a man named Captain. They were a relatively small group that generally avoided the conflict, and were trying their best to just survive, like many other smaller groups on the ship. But similar to the Grass Gurus, even during that hunger crisis, they were willing to help feed the other players who were in need. Oh, I lost your hand! I'm sorry to hear! Oh damn, what happened to your hand, bro? I got chopped off. I'm sorry to hear that. Oh, yeah, that is horrible to hear. Mainly because I wanted it chopped off, but I was also at the front. Oh, damn. That's where I lost my hand, too. Yeah, same story, man. But hey, you know, if you're in need, we're trying to make some pancakes right now if you want. We can offer you some. Hey, it's Captain! Hey, it's Captain! Guys, I'm dying! I'm actually starving right now! Wait! Get down! I'm gonna drop some zombie meat. It's up to you. If you want it, you take it. Hold up, wait! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Get some pancakes. Get some pancakes. We're offering. There was a pancake on the ground. There was a pancake on the ground. Yeah, well, if you ever need something, we're here. We can help. Seeing groups selflessly help each other like this was just refreshing compared to all the violence that we've already seen. And back at the post-cache meeting, the Groots were still acting friendly towards each other. But they did discuss something that was pretty important. Also guys, Henry died. Yeah, we saw. Peaches is still in charge. I haven't even seen Peaches. Is he doing anything? Yeah, no, I saw Peaches a bit ago. He's with Free. Recon Botts was right. Peaches was with Free. Checking out what Groot Planet started under Henry's leadership. Look, we see, we have a fireplace, we have a barrel, we have food growing. We're fully sustained. Me too. I see what you guys are doing. That's cool. That's amazing. I just don't know what to do. Peaches seemed a bit lost after losing the person who had all these plans for the ship. And while it's sad that Henry wouldn't be able to live to see this place truly thrive, the least Peaches could do is to take action. And live by the words he said to Henry when they first won the hat. You know, I just wanted you to know that things haven't been going so great so far. If there's any point that I pass on, you have to live on our message. Of course. But we will not lose this hat by force. After losing his co-captain, Peaches was determined to keep this hat safe. And the first step that he decided to take was to go after the Bar Clan. Now this was pretty dangerous because his cache event supplied a lot of players. Including one player in particular. Alright, I got a little room over here in the back. You guys got guns? Where? I got AK-105, there's an AK-47 here. Nice, I'll run it. But even though Peaches knew that this cache distributed many guns around the ship, he was still committed to calling Bar out for their actions. Is Peaches the president? Yeah, I think so, that's why I've been- I mean, for our president, he's kind of inactive. I mean, excuse me? Excuse me? Inactive, did you say? I did just say inactive, yeah. Yeah? Oh, that's crazy because we have been sitting here strategizing, building, farming. Where have you been? They've been being cannibals, that's what they do. No, okay, well, I'm not a cannibal. Okay, I got that shit straight away. There's a lot of stuff going around about this. I'm sure you're going to vouch for that. Maybe we just in bar. Listen, hey, hey, right, let's get one thing straight, okay? I have not eaten anyone, okay? I have, I've walked around- Why did you say it like that? It sounds kind of suspicious. Wait, wait, can you vouch for your whole clan or what? Whether or not they do not eat people, I do not know. I've encountered a couple of years, and I don't think any of you have seen me eating people. You know, I ain't got no problem. If anyone's bit, I am carrying cures. I'll help anyone. If you've been bit, I will help you. Well, just understand that, like, I know it might seem like I'm inactive, but walking around this entire place, strategizing, organizing infrastructure, it takes a lot of effort. Then show me. I will help you. Wait, wait, wait, wait. I would like to be a help. Let me help you. I know. We have a farm that needs wood right now and an axe over here. Everyone, you can see that we have started this farm here, and Guru Clan has been doing a lot of work on that. They're looking for wood. They're obviously looking for a little bit of help sawing things, shovels, you know, things related to farming. I mean, if there's a group that you guys want food from, this is where you can help. Well, that went a lot better than expected, and it was mostly diffused by the Bar Clan member, not Peaches. But why was Bar suddenly acting nice? Well, back when Bojangles originally joined Bar, he was shot down by their looter XCOM on the cannibalism idea. And since that point, the faction has kind of been split. One side for cannibalism with Bojangles, and one side against it with XCOM. You could even hear it in XCOM's reaction to Bojangles murdering the law members. No, no, no, Glenn's cool! No, no! Whatever you guys thought. But with the majority of his faction basically infected by this cannibalism idea, XCOM decided to be patient, and wait to see if there would be an opportunity to get this cannibalistic clown out of his faction. Speaking about the clown though, he had some former law members that were potential supporters of his come by the bar to speak about a plan that they heard of. I heard you guys were talking about getting rid of the current person in charge. Uh, that's not me, but I heard that too. That was a rumor. Yeah, I heard that. That was not our rumor. I mean, look, I'm not saying Bojangles would be a great Boat president, but Bojangles would be a great Boat president. I'm just saying. We all went down there to fight the zombies, and the administration sat back and hid in the fucking building, but we died like dogs, okay? Yeah, that's bullshit. That's how it actually went out. That is why I'm walking around with one arm. Typical fucking politicians. Typical politicians. That's it, Bojangles for president. That's it. Bojangles for president. Bojangles for president. It just makes sense. It just makes sense. Bojangles is for the people. That's right. I want- Speak the truth. You know what's different about Bojangles? I don't even like money. I can't fill my pockets, friends, because I'm not wearing pants. While Bojangles was plotting to assassinate the captain and take the spot for himself, there was another player who was planning an assassination of their own. After seeing Peaches make peace with Barr, Kezza knew that he probably wouldn't want to take action against Macy anymore. So, for whatever reason, he decided to take this self-proclaimed vengeance into his own hands. Window, window, window, window. Let's go. Porch. Oh. Down the street. Come on, come on, come on, come on. Yeah, let's go check out some good wood off. Dammit. Wait, actually, hold on. I just- I just- I just walked in. You've got Mag and Ruff up here. Yeah, we need to go- we need to go do something, uh... Listen, listen to me. Macy's gotta pay, Fish. Macy's gotta pay. I was fancy of the last words where you killed my friend, even if he didn't do it. Even if he didn't do it, Fish. Macy's gotta pay. Braun died. I had to put his body down over here. Fuck. I guess we'll- we'll have like a walking service. I just wanna, you know, show my respect for Braun. He'll have to wait, I think. Yeah, things keep happening. It's hard to have time. Man, I'm starving. I'm starving. Okay. Any some water? Is it by high in a second or something? Does anybody have an arm? Yeah, where is everybody? Screw violence. We're one faction! We have made peace, we are one- one people! Wait, Captain. Captain. Captain, call me real quick. Woah, fuck! What is- Woah, woah, woah, woah! Come on! Captain, call me real quick. Woah, woah, woah, woah! Go to the front! Go to the front! Go to the front! Go to the front! Macy's dead! Damn it! He was the leader of all. Why did Indiana kill somebody to like put him to a second? Indiana killed Macy. Who just killed somebody? I didn't kill anybody. What? Oh, it's- What? I didn't kill anybody, I was right here. Nails. Yeah, Macy just- Dude, who just shot Macy? Indiana. Who is Indiana? I saw more of the angles over there. Who the fuck is Indiana? I haven't even seen Indiana. Okay, look, if anyone sees the name Indiana- Ha ha ha ha ha! Ha ha ha ha ha! Ha ha ha ha ha! Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha! Oh well well well Macy. Doesn't matter what you did or didn't do, fancy Orbs' legacy lives on. If you couldn't tell by now, Keza was the one who killed Macy. And due to a glitch with the game, Macy was shown to be killed by someone named Indiana, who wasn't even close to the gunshots when it happened. And due to the spot that Keza chose, because of the isometric point of view of Zomboid, no one could see him kill Macy, so Keza would seemingly get no consequences for this murder. And now the person who saved many lives at the courthouse during the election, fought valiantly against a zombie horde, and took up leadership of the Law Thatction after they lost their leader was now gone forever. How does this keep on happening? How do the evil players on the ship somehow always escape any punishment for their actions? Well, there was one man who was capable of changing this. A man who was arguably undeserving of his position at the start, but now was determined to finally be worthy to be called Captain. Peaches, are you going to be on the front lines this time? Yeah, I'm here for it, baby. Yo, Peaches, I think Bar's planning to get cool. Why are you asking? Bar? Because we're here for the front line. Oh, are you? Because it seems like I've heard a lot of shit about your clan and what you've been doing to people. You've been doing nothing. They're planning to cool. Yeah. Yeah, sounds like trying to kill me. Yeah, yeah, yeah. You know what, Bar, why don't you get, honestly, I've been trying to bring people together, but I know which you are. I know you're throwing shit. Come on, Bojangles needs you to talk to. All right, all right, who am I talking to? Who am I talking to? The Captain. Captain. Okay, hello, Peaches. It's me, Bojangles. Bojangles the Clown. You might recognize me. Yeah, I know you do. It's been brought to my attention. The citizens of this boat, they're concerned for their safety. Every time the boat is invaded, you hide in a building while they put their lives on the line for you. Okay, here, Bojangles, let me tell you something. I've had 35 people run up to me and tell me that your clan is eating people and killing them. The only reason why anyone doesn't feel safe on this boat is because of you and your clan. It is all your team that has been sitting here causing destruction and chaos and causing fear of the people, stirring the pot. You tell me that I have sit here and hide in a building I have been structuring farms, foods, buildings, construction, trying to make us succeed and what do you do? Nothing. Nothing. I united people. You've united cannibals. This was not the same Peaches who hid in a building during the zombie horde. This was a new side of him, one that sounded like the leader that he was elected to be. In calling out the most dangerous clan on the ship, calling this a risk for Peaches would be an understatement but Peaches knew what was likely to happen. They're planning to kill me. Okay, they're trying to kill me. They're gonna fucking kill me. Lol, I'll do my best. I'll die for you, man. I hope you guys know I want you to be successful. Thank you, Peaches. Whatever happens, Peaches, we're not gonna let you die. In consistently choosing the morally correct path, Peaches had won over the majority of the players on the boat. They knew what was likely to happen and would honorably pledge their lives to keep him safe. But in doing the right thing, he had unknowingly opened an opportunity for himself. One that could change the course of an altercation with Barr. It's a big one. Oh, hey, he is Peaches. He is Peaches. He doesn't speak for us. I think he's friends with Bojangles. Hey, no, he doesn't speak for us. I'm the leader of Barr. I'm the leader of Barr. We're trying to work together. We're not trying to work against you guys. If you want to work with us, then you need to kill Bojangles. Is that what we have to do though? Yeah, because he's just gonna kill me. None of your name. If removing Bo from my group can solve it and give my people peace, then I'll do it. XCOM pledging to remove Bojangles from his group was massive. But that'd only be the case if he stuck to his word. But being pretty much out of options, Peaches would just have to trust him and try to come up with a quick plan. Now, the only way they thought this could work is if all of them were in a big group so Bojangles couldn't run. But with enough space to target only him and not accidentally hit each other. The only way this could work was to somehow get Bojangles to comply. And luckily enough, XCOM would help with that. Love it. How about we show you the location? Hey, where's Bojangles? Hey, where's Bojangles? Wow, there's a whole lot of suspicious attention around me. Yo, Bo, Bo, you gotta solve this. Yeah, what are they mad about? He's right here. Oh, I see Bojangles. He's right here. He's right here. There he is. Let's call it down on comms. Let's let them talk. Sure. Because he has that tinfoil hat. Never mind, sorry. So, Bojangles, I will put my weapon away if you put your weapon away. Bo, put your weapon away. Sure. Get in a big circle. Big circle on Peaches. Now, listen, Bojangles. You have brought a bad name to the entire Bar Clan. You have- We have heard your terms. Listen, you will listen when I speak and I will give you a chance to respond. But this is no longer Mr. Nice Peaches. All I've heard all day since I joined this clan was that you've been hurting people. You've been eating people. They found human meat in your base. And then, not only that, you gave a bad name to the entire Bar Clan. And X over here tells me that he's not up with that. That's not the Bar Clan. That's not what they stand for. And with that, I heard your interpretation earlier. I heard you say that you wanted to wear this hat by the end of the day. Not acceptable. Now everyone, for one second, tell me, has this man made you feel scared? Yes. Yes. All I know is you can't be trusted. And with that being said, X, we made a deal. Wow. Wait, do I get a turn to speak or...? Oh, you're a bit late. Excuse me, sir. Excuse me, sir. Thanks. I don't even know. I don't even know. I don't even know. I don't even know. I don't even know. I don't even know. I don't even know. I don't even know. I don't even know. I went down the stairwell. Bojangles was on the run from seemingly everyone on the ship but there was one person who was actually willing to help him. The same man who stood up for him against Peaches before. Sarge. So, as Bojangles continued to run, Sarge ran after him but for whatever reason the voice chat was bugging out from all the people running around. And so, it was up to Bojangles to try and figure out that Sarge was there to help him rather than hurt him without any communication. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. What are you doing? What are you doing? What are you doing? A duck killed Sarge? What? What the fuck? What is going on? He was the only person who was fighting for the people. Sarge! They killed Sarge! Why would you kill Sarge? Oh my god. Are you serious? Sarge was a fucking hero! Bro, guy was a hero. He helped me cut my arm off. Like, he's the real one. Bojangles hadn't murdered Sarge. While it might be justified because he thought he was getting chased, he had more than enough time to figure out that he wasn't there to hurt him. It seemed that throughout this whole event, Sarge was really there to just help others, even if he disagreed with them. And sadly, in an attempt to help Bojangles, he just put himself in the wrong place at the wrong time. Does anybody know what's going on? I just see people gunshots death. I'm gonna tell you right now, Sarge was a real one. Bro, Sarge helped me and everybody else during the event. Like, he helped me cut my arm off. We have to find two out. He was a fucking hero among peasants. Like, I don't know what's going on anymore. And so, after literally killing the only person who was willing to help him get through this, Bojangles was now truly alone. But for some reason, he was in luck for once. Because the kill feed glitched and showed someone else as killing Sarge. And so, he'd seemingly get away with yet another murder. But this wasn't the end of Bojangles' luck, as he wasn't the only outsider lurking underneath the boat. I had, I got like, I got like an army of people chasing me. They just put like a kangaroo cord on. Did you guys see that shit? Yo, join us, dude. Okay. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Send me a, send me a fucking link, bro. Cause that was fucking nuts. I had people stabbing at me and shit. Hold on. Good. Holy shit, it's Bojangles. I had me to the group. I gotta form a big faction. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I had me to the group. That was nutty. I got out with my life. Now, why did this group just trust Bojangles after what just happened? Well, this IRF group that he ran into was one that didn't really interact with many other groups. Because they chose the base under the ship. Leading them to not really know what was happening above the surface. But some of their group members did just see what happened with Peaches. So, why didn't they care about that? Well, to an outsider, it could just look like a flat out portrayal. And while Bojangles did have some pretty concerning opinions, that's where his manipulative tendencies would come into play. I'll let you in, buddy. But you just gotta promise me. You gotta cut the cannibal shit out for a bit. We got food for you, buddy. I was never a fucking cannibal. I just legalized cannibal. There's fine points to my policies. I watched the meat, fucking human meat. Who? Who did? Whatever, dude. You believe in forgiveness. Y'all are fucking jeez. I thought I was down here by myself. I was about to go down swinging. All right, gentlemen, we'll take you to our home. Welcome in. Thank you, thank you. Let's go. What's their gun situation right there? Uh, with this amount of guns we have now, I think we should be okay. I mean, you got, you got fucking Bojangles, baby. You got Bojangles now. I'm blessed by the dark gods. Oh yeah, I had to shoot the shit out of this guy. He was chasing me with a cooking pot or something. Oh, sh- This is fresh. Yeah, this dude was chasing me with a club hammer. I had to fuck him up. He didn't deserve it, but cool. Wait, this is Sarge. Bro, he was chasing me with a hammer. Like, what am I supposed to do? Well, thank you for taking me in, Key. I appreciate you. You found me at a time where I was at my lowest, you know, chased by half of the fucking boat. Yo, they backstabbed me. Did they? Yeah, bro, that's how they dropped me out of the faction and like, they sold me out, bro. With Bojangles now a part of a new clan that he was actively manipulating to his side of the conflict, how are things going up top? Well, after failing to kill Bojangles, Peaches knew the risk this pose having a loose cannon like this murderous clown around. So, he sent out a few spies to try and see what Bojangles was up to. Man, everybody's trying to kill me. I don't even know what I did. All I can ask is that if I do die is that you people remember. You remember what we stood for. We stood for being here. Of course, Peaches. Here's Captain Peaches. What's up? Did you do your mission? It's complicated. I saw Bojangles. Okay. Because we don't wake up too bad. Somebody was chasing him. He had a gunned him down and he escaped. I followed him. He didn't seem to see me and I noticed that he was with a large group. Is that a fucking pistol? It wasn't any of the groups in the alliance so far, but they didn't seem to be hostile to him. Yes, I'm insane. My bad. It was a military group. And who was that? Um, it was a yellow tag. Hey man, look. I've never seen a yellow tag. There's going to be lots of threats. All I know is if I can convince the majority of you that I stand for the right message and that we stand together, that's all that matters. And if I die, well damn it, you live on. But if we come together, we can survive this. This was pretty sad. Peaches is being targeted by players like Bojangles for doing the right thing. But people wouldn't forget this. Which would actually help Peaches out in the long run. Anyway, speaking about coming together, EtzCom and the rest of Bar had actually joined a group called SK. Which was a small group that was slowly growing as they were offering to take in the lost players from all the other dissolving groups on the server. But with Bar and this new clan, if Bojangles or the IRF tried to target EtzCom or any of the other previous members of Bar, he'd be targeting all of SK. But regardless, the IRF would mention something that would make them get on the move a lot quicker. We were well liked so we heard a lot of conversations. We need to talk to Peaches because he's the captain and they have a trader coming. And we probably can get some stuff traded. Now, this trader event that the IRF was talking about was an event that was just announced to all players. What they were told is that there would be a smuggler coming onto the ship and whoever had the captain's hat would be the sole person spoken to during this interaction. So, this would be the first time the captain might actually benefit from the hat. But there were also others who would obviously want whatever power this hat would give the captain for themselves. Which of course included Bojangles. Who would in turn bring all the IRF. But to be clear again, the IRF did not know the full story when it came to Bojangles. He was manipulating them from the moment he ran into them under the ship and had no intention of stopping doing so. Bojangles, do you have any idea why they want to kill you? Like we need to know. They think I'm a cannibal which is crazy and no one's ever seen me eat a person. He kills multiple people. A lot of it is rumors in here so. Listen, listen, listen. Would somebody who just killed people carry around a copy of the constitution? I hate you. Also, I'm going to try to talk to Free-in-law. Yeah, why don't we? Because I gave law food. Because I have Bojangles word. Because if you keep him fed, he's not going to eat people, right? Look, look, look, look. Okay, let's move out. Get some guns. Alright, let's go. The IRF were now on the move to quote unquote talk to Free-in-law to discuss the apparent wrongdoing against Bojangles. While they were at fault for blindly trusting someone like Bojangles, they were just trying to do what they thought was the right thing and helped someone in need. But now they believe basically everyone but Bojangles was evil and they were on their way to meet with the captain. But Peaches wouldn't be alone. Oh, so we're not going to go and fight with everybody? Do you have a gun? Yeah, none of us have guns. Do we want too hard to defend the captain or take it for ourselves? I say defend. Taking for ourselves is not going to do us any good. It's going to make us look even worse. Yeah. I think we're fine. So far we've been peaceful with everybody. I think we stay peaceful. Yeah, let's go help. Yeah. You know, let's get down there. Let's go. We will personally defend the captain. Just like guys, it's really risky. Like, do we want to take the risk? If we die, we die heroes. Yeah, we die heroes. Let's not live as cowards, let's die heroes. NCR wanting to protect the captain even if it meant they'd die for it showed how much the people respected Peaches up to this point. I mean, he went from being the captain that hid to the one that the players would pledge your lives for. But since NCR lived in the bridge building of the ship, with word getting around that Bojangles might hunt Peaches, he was hiding in there. But it wouldn't take the IRF too long to figure that out. Law? Uh, it's just me. You're cool with Bojangles, right? You're not gonna hurt him? No, that's not that I'm aware of. All right, good, good, good. Thank you, Law. Let's go talk to Peaches real quick. Wait, wait, I haven't seen Peaches. Law, are you guys protecting Peaches or what are you guys doing? Peaches is hiding. I have not seen Peaches. I think he's in the command room up here. I've been looking for him. Let's go look for Peaches and have a talk with him. We need to know what the captain is. I can check where he is. I don't know. It says he's up near the prison. It says at least one of them. All right, to the prison we go. Let's go. Bojangles is outside. What? Look, IRF, they're outside right now. Peaches! Peaches! Yeah, uh, we're there. No, no, no, no. Where's Peaches? We're not trying to harm Peaches. We want to have a diplomatic conversation with Peaches. Yo, Peaches, come to the roof maybe, just for safety. Bojangles, kill outside. Where? Where we going? Come with me, Peaches. I'm gonna protect you. I'm gonna have to go upstairs. You went upstairs? Peaches, we're not gonna hurt you. Hold on, we're not here to hurt you, dude. Relax. He's in the big blue building. He's in the big blue building, I think. I don't like this. I'm not gonna lie. It's not looking good. This is for... This is for the survival of that man. Peaches is being fucking like... Peaches is being fucking weird. He's being skeptical of that dude. We just gotta be ready. We gotta be ready. There's a shitload of people looking for Peaches. They're coming to kill you. Clever, is he up there? I'm gonna talk to him. I'm gonna talk to him. Let me talk to him. Everyone get in here. Let me talk to him. They're all upstairs. Hey, hey, we should deescalate. Why are you guys... We're not gonna hurt you. I came to talk. Peaches, talk to me at the window. I'm downstairs. I'm at the first floor. Oh, motherfucker. You're on the first floor? All right, gentlemen, gentlemen. I'm going downstairs. Just wait, okay? I'm trying to diplomate. Like about what? Hey, he's upstairs. He's up here. Wait, Peaches is upstairs. Why is Peaches fucking weird? Yeah, bro. Now Peaches is fucking weird. Next event is gonna begin. Can the captain please make their way to the bridge? All right, there's nothing happened to you. Fuck it, come on. Come on, buddy. Out of the way. We need to talk first. We need to talk first. Just go to the... We need to talk easier. Peaches, come... Let me talk to you later. Let me talk to you later. NCR, follow up. Wait, what? You got any water? NCR, pull up. He's running. He's running. Going down. Going the way I'm supposed to go. Bro, bro, he's running. Peaches is running. No, he's going where they were told him to go. They're the... AIRF, regroup first floor. Regroup first floor. Motherfucker. Through some sort of escape rope, Peaches had somehow escaped the entire IRF and was already on his way to meet the smuggler. But this escape didn't come with zero consequences. Shit! Someone died! Holy shit! Someone just fell over and fell to one! No, he fell! No! What the fuck? Holy shit! He's dead! Uh, what the fuck happened? Bro, he just jumped off and killed himself. No, no, it was uh, our one-armed friend. What's his name? Uh, Melloy? Melloy. No! Yeah. Holy shit. We'll grab him and bury him right out here. We will, we will. It's a shame. He was a good man. Melloy? Oh, that's... Oh no! As NCR said multiple times, they would lay down their lives for Peaches. But after losing one member of their already small group, would they stick to their word? Well, it wouldn't take too long to test their word, as after this whole interaction, the IRF were already planning their next move. We're not going to get a better opportunity than this. Okay, hold on. What are you doing? Okay, Peaches was being a dick, told us he was downstairs, avoiding us completely. I don't think he deserves the captaincy anymore. Hell no! He was disrespecting me. They're all going to be down on the bridge. We all position ourselves on the top. When they get down there and everyone's sorted, our guys are out of the way, let's just open up. Alright, let's do it. Let's go. The IRF were planning to gun down the captain, but for what? Because he didn't want to stay for a sketchy meeting? It felt like the IRF thought Peaches was some sort of parasite that they had to get rid of, but the real parasite was standing right beside them this whole time. But there was no stopping this now. The smuggler was making their way to the boat and the negotiations with the captain would soon begin. Alright boys, we're going to get ourselves on this little ship here. Alright, alright. Take them out boys. Sprinters, sprinters. The sprinters first. Zombies are dying. I wouldn't stand there if I were you, dude. No way, idiot! Sir, I suggest you to move! Alright boys, get building. Get back you fucking mind-man. Now listen boys, we're going to be joining these people on their fair ship. Let's be hospitable. Now, these were the smugglers and mercenaries. I'll explain more about them as the trading commences, but these were real players with unscripted roles who were being brought into the civilization. They had only one life and were mostly players from previous civilizations. But with the captain finally arriving to the bridge, let's see how these negotiations would play out. Alright boys, go ahead. Hello. Oh, back to the bridge. I'm the captain of this ship. How are you? Well, uh, we need a good body to talk. Definitely not. He's like, we're going to be so nice to the bottom of it. Uh, we'll go into here. Please give us some room guys. Yeah, I feel a little bit, uh, a little bit crowded in here. Let's get some room. Let's get some room. Let's get a little room. It's just, I thought it's been rather cramped. We've been sticking together a lot. So how can I help you, smuggler? Well, you see, I got myself and five other boys, and uh, those boys are very hungry. They're bleeding me dry. We need some place to stay with, uh, with food and people. Well, I can tell you what, you found it. Uh, we just started a nice farm, and obviously you can see we have a lot of people here. Well, I'm willing to trade my boys' help as well as some guns. Okay. Who pepped you? Oh my gosh. I would accept that. That's a reasonable term. I love peckings. Alright, well, I'll go get my boys. Because it might have not been too clear to explain this deal simply, the smuggler was looking for a place for his five mercenaries to stay. But the problem is that they all had high thirst and hunger traits. So, in return for letting them on the boat and fulfilling their needs, they'd be willing to offer their services to the captain. And while getting five guards for food and water seems like an easy trade for the captain, this was one of the benefits from the hag, which helped make up for him having a target on his back ever since he got elected. But trading the limited food they had for guns wouldn't sit well with all the other players on the ship. Especially one group in particular. Alright, where's everybody else? Alright, they went under. They went under. They think we're going to ambush them. Hold on, hold on. It's not safe here. Dude, are you sure about this? People might hate us. It's very safe. We need somebody to talk to the trader. Do any food on you? Peaches. Where the peaches go? I have... Come downstairs, come downstairs, come downstairs. IRF, come here, come down, come down. All right, follow me, follow me, follow me. Under, under, under. IRF, come under. IRF, come under. They're offering food for weapons. That's what the peaches just agreed to. Food for fucking weapons? Yeah, he's starving out here. Let's let him know what we think about that trade. Yo, peaches, if anything happens... Whoa, whoa, whoa! Whoa! Good boy! Captain, I'm shot! I'm dead, boys. Yo, IRF! Is Peaches gonna die? No! Oh, Peaches! I got Peaches, I got Peaches! Go, go, go, get out! I fucking killed him! I killed him, I killed Peaches! Peaches is dead! I'm coming, I gotcha! Peaches is dead! Peaches is dead? You're okay, you're okay. Captain's dead! What the fuck? What the fuck? Peaches died. Peaches is dead? Is he on the map? Can you see him? Peaches is dead! Oh my god, there's so many people dead. I know, Peaches died. V is dead, Major is dead, the NCR might be dead. We're gonna look at the map. I'm looking at the map. I'm looking at the map. How many of them have we got left? It's just us. This was a massacre. Under Bojangles' influence, the IRF chose the bloodiest path they could in an attempt to quote unquote help the players on the ship. And now many people, including the captain, were dead. But was killing Peaches and all these other people really helping anyone but Bojangles? That same Peaches who led the players better than anyone else, redeemed himself from his small mistakes and was willing to risk everything for the safety of his people. They're gonna fucking kill him. I'll die for you, man. I hope you guys know I want you to be successful. Thank you, Peaches. Whatever happens to Peaches, you're a good man. And he was a good man, but now he was dead due to the will of one man and the naivety of another. I'm not sure if you're dead. Guys, that was so fucked up. I was there. I heard that there was going to be an ambush by Bojangles and his crew. They just opened fire on everyone. Killed our captain. It's awful. I didn't even see his body. I dropped the fish. Very important question. Does anyone know who got the hat? That's a really good question. I think it's up for grabs, honestly. I didn't see who took it. Because whoever has it is now the new captain. I will not pledge allegiance to that captain. And so, with Peaches gone and the hat now up for grabs, it was clear that it wouldn't give the captain any respect from the players. But it would still give the captain something else. As I said at the start, the players knew that this hat would have a massive impact later on in the event. But what they didn't know was that soon this one item would have the power to control the fate of every player on this ship. Not only in this civilization event, but in an entirely separate one as well. This will be explained in more detail later when the players are actually told about this. But for now, just know that this hat was still very important. And just the potential power the players thought it could have was already going to their heads. I'm good, I'm good. Holy shit, dude! That was good! What happened? Guys, let's clear it. Good! Let's clear it. Jesus Christ. Where's the captain's hat? All right, who's got my new hat? Who? Where's the captain's hat? Give me the captain's hat. I got his body. I got his body. I got his body. I got his body. I got his body. I got his body. Give me the hat. Back off. Back off. Back off. Back off. We lost chips. One small sacrifice, man. Is anyone hurt? We gotta hold the funeral for chips. We lost fucking chips, man. No. Chips? It's worth it. Does anyone have trousers or something? We were starving and the man was trading food for fucking weapons? Yup. Yeah. Wait, why doesn't Bojangles have the hat? Yeah, why doesn't Bojangles have the hat? I think captain. Yo, anybody, they got a gun die. Holy shit. Kietzo had taken the hat, becoming the next captain of the ship. But this obviously upset Bojangles, which Kietzo decided to just straight up ignore. So yet again, Bojangles felt betrayed and would want revenge. But he wasn't the only one wanting revenge on the ship, as the players knew Bojangles caused Peach's death, and there was one man who was determined to not let him get away with it. Well this is messed up. We voted for a president at the start but we all knew this was gonna happen. In the end we all knew he was gonna die. Hey guys. Yeah. Look, we all know this Bojangles is getting out of hand. This is going insane. We need someone who will stand up. So I am saying this with a heavy heart. Take my stuff. I'm going to go out. Wait, you can't do that. No, Gengar, you're gonna die. I will end this tyranny once and for all. No, this is so sad. Stop, you don't know how to do this. By the way, she's not coming. I know times have been tough, it's a little sad. But I am going to sacrifice myself for the great Orgut. I know that a god above, our lord Spiffo, will save us. This is a sacrifice that must be made. We all remember you. Good luck, Gengar. Spiffo watches over you. Good luck, Gengar. Gengar was going to sacrifice himself to kill this clown once and for all. But who was this guy? Well, Gengar was a part of a small clan named the Cruz Crusaders who respected Peaches and actually voted for him during the election. And now he was on a solo mission to try and avenge his death. But Gengar wasn't the only one looking for revenge, as the IRF would soon find out how the players really thought about this coup of the captaincy. Yeah, I know the old man was delivering. Oh! Oh! Oh! Watch out, where are you? Run, run, run, run. Back to base, back to base, go back to base. Hey guys, let's go! Wait, Free, what the fuck are you doing here? Wait, why is Free here? Why is, why is... Better start talking real quick. Just let him go, let him go. I need all of you over here. Okay. Let's talk and consolidate again, okay? Alright. Oh, grenade? What the fuck? Hold on. Was that a grenade? No, no, no, it was just a click of a rifle. Oh, okay. Just a click of a rifle. Oh, okay. So fucking scary. Right now we own the boat. We own the boat at the moment. Gentlemen, gentlemen, I just want to tell you guys, good job. Good job on all that. Good job on giving each other's backs. We only lost one man in those chips. Granted, he was a rookie, but we still need to bury him. Let's go, let's go bury him. Give a speech on the bridge. Oh, shit. That's so fucked up. Why are there sprinters? There's like zombies in. Lemon, lemon. Lemon. Oh, lemon. Lemon. Those guys pointed at me and made me leave the faction. The military guys, they all surrounded me and told me to leave the faction. I think we need to get rid of them, Captain. Those military guys, they gotta go. The ones that Peaches led onto this boat. Where are they? I don't know where they're hiding now, but I think they need to be taken care of. The military guys that the IRF was talking about were the same mercenaries who were brought onto the ship before. And during that whole massacre, the IRF had killed the smuggler who brought them in, which did not make them too happy, rightfully so. With the mercenaries having their sights on the IRF, more and more players got more confident to go after them, letting the IRF slowly learn that what they did pissed off more people than they might have expected. I got that Molotov. You got two left-handed. I got one, I got one, I got one, I got one, that's fine. I got Avenger Peaches bro, that was my, that was my fucking goat. They're bad, they threatened one of our guys. We own this ship now, own this fucking ship. Oh shit. End the rafters again, end the rafters. Brute, brute. Come back, come back in, come back in. Fuck, we gotta make a plan. Let's make a plan. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, we're okay in here. We're trying to kill our whole faction right now because we killed the traitor. We killed the traitor? Yeah, he was talking to the captain when you shot him and he got killed. Oh, that's awkward. Guys, I think we should get out of here. The IRF were finally starting to realize what they have done to the ship. It's kind of crazy how they were being so careless with their positioning and acting like they didn't just murder a ton of people including the elected captain. But there will be another problem forming for the IRF as someone would attempt to take control of the mercenaries who is continuing to follow the pattern of manipulating anyone around him with power to benefit himself. Come with me, come with me guys. Are you all up here? It's a lot safer back here, you see. Now listen, here's the nitty gritty, okay? You're lucky you've fallen into the right place, okay? Because this guy right here, I have been keeping this ship alive, okay? I've been finding food, I've been keeping things running, okay? So you guys are in great hands. Did you run us down, or the factions, who's friendly, who's not friendly, who's your enemy? Okay, listen, IRF, poo poo, L, no, no, you don't want them, okay? They're nasty, all right? Obviously. Especially Bojangles the clown, he's a filthy little, greedy little clown, he tried to kill the captain. In IRF, maybe 5, 10. Is that a shoot on side, clan? No, there's more like 15. Yeah, you see IRF, I think we shoot him. We'll shoot in IRF immediately. They killed our goddamn boss, we're not standing it. We're taking the maps. Of course we're not taking them, but what's the bureaucracy in this? Whoever wears the captain's height is the captain of the ship, or? Listen, you don't strike me as the kind of guy to see a hat and go, that's the leader. The gods that be may determine the captain's hat important, okay? And we can take it off their dead bodies, okay? At the end of the day, that's what matters. Listen, your leader needs some ammo, okay? I need some ammo, because I'm gonna help you in this fight, all right? Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, don't fall into this guy's trap, okay? He's got a sharp tongue, he's got a sharp tongue. Now, with most of these mercenaries being from past civilizations, they have experience dealing with people like Keza, and so they wanted to deliberate a bit more before choosing whether or not to stick with him. What do you think we should do? What do you think we should do? I don't know, I don't know. Do you trust them? I think so. Uh, not really. I trust him, but he's got a strong tongue. Honestly, whatever, first things first, we need to take down that group, I forgot the name, I-H-R-R-F. IRF, they're going down. We take them down first, for now, and then after that. We'll try three for now, just so we don't shoot them by accident. Yeah, yeah, yeah. We should probably, let's go find Keza. Alright, invite us. Hey guys. Oh, that's great to hear. I think we're gonna achieve great things together. And of course, Keza was now in control of the most dangerous players on the ship, and they were pretty well kitted because this was supposed to benefit the captain, but now they had their own free will as actual players to choose who they'd like to follow. And talking about players to follow, after the massacre, a lot of the players who lost most of their group were finding themselves lost on what to do on the ship, but there was a group who survived the massacre, who was willing to help anyone they could. We need to regroup our two groups, which ours is not much left, and we need to find a plan, all of us. I don't know how much longer I got at me. Yo, reconning no one, they're already meeting about trying to build a big faction to take out IRF. What? Killed peaches. Oh, we're down. It's only us two left. I need medical attention right now, I'm badly hurt. Hello friends. We're joining SK. We're forming a bigger faction to kind of combat what's going on. Are you guys joining in with SK? Yes. After he gets to healing, I'll join. Settle everyone into SK and then we can move forward with that. Okay. It was an honor serving under you, Captain, so it's time to get SK. Yes it is, it is. And so, with NCR and the remaining members of law merging with SK, this was the second group that was ready to take on the IRF and avenge all those they lost. And they weren't planning to attack the IRF separately. It's been apparent that we both have a common enemy. We want to eliminate them. I want to propose that you guys join us so we can fight as a whole united rather than separate and possibly kill each other to friendly fire. We settle this battle and then we talk about joining together, okay? No problem. Maybe you guys can rush in there and then we'll come in and support you from behind, okay? That's teamwork makes a dream work. I am on board with that idea. No problem. No problem. That works. Let's get going then. Let's get going. Let's go. With SK and Free now working together to take down the IRF, it wasn't looking too good for them. But was violence really the best way to settle this? Well, it seemed that the IRF was leaning more towards peace rather than war as they continued to migrate around the ship. I think I need to establish who I am as the captain, okay? I'm not going to make promises I can't keep. I'm going to keep as many people alive as I can. But I'm going to make a number one rule here. Sorry, Bojangles. No cannibalism, all right? No cannibalism. We stick by our morals. We don't eat each other. We respect the debt. We do not want to be just like the infected. That's the whole point of us living. We should try to make friendships. We can definitely make peace with NCR. No, NCR is still alive. Let's go make peace. Let's go make peace. If captain's reasonable, if we can talk to him. With the IRF now settled on peace, while it's nice to see that they had a change of heart after murdering so many innocent players, there was one thing that Kietzo still didn't realize. Just because he had the hat and called himself captain didn't mean that he would gain the players respect. I mean, his group committed a literal massacre and he expected something he wore on his head to somehow stop any retaliation from him. And so, him and his group continued onto the courthouse with intentions of making peace, completely unaware of what was about to come. Where are we going again? The courthouse. Courthouse. And Bojangles, like what happened? Oh, I don't even know bro. Did you kill Peachy? Huh? Yeah, well he uh, directly. Oh, Bojangles is downstairs. Oh my god guys. Down the stairs. Hey, come out. Bojangles. Hey Lex. Bojangles isn't gonna do anything. I'm captain. I'm captain. Everyone calm down. The captain is here. You're good. You're good. Oh, they're good. They're good. They're good. What's up? Other side. Other side. Other side. Other side. Other side. Other side. Some calm down. The captain is here. You're fine. Captain's here. Captain's here. Bojangles, go pay. Oh, it's just... Oh, it's just... Rock, two, three shots of you. What the fuck? Oh, I'm trying to try to catch. Yeah. Yeah. I'm trying to catch. Yeah. Oh, I'm trying to catch. Yeah. I'm trying to catch. I'm trying to catch. Oh, it's shooting me. Oh, fuck. The guy gets... Get on me. Oh, no, just go back, go back, go back. I'm back down the street, I'm back down the street. I'm hurt, I'm hurt. I'm dead. I'm gonna die. We all know Bojangles is getting out of hand. We need someone to withstand us. I will end this tyranny once and for all. Fucker. Oh, shoot. Bojangles is dead. Bojangles is down. Get up here. Go, go, go. I got shot. Go, go. Just keep going. Keep going. Yeah, back up. Back up. Back up. I killed Bojangles. You did good, Gengar. You did good. Bojangles. Good shit, Gengar. But I'm gonna die now. No, wait. No, let me look at you. No, Gengar. You did it for me. You did it for me. I did it for you. You're dying for you. You're dying for you. For you, Gengar. Spiffo. No, Gengar. Spiffo watches you. Gengar had done it. He killed Bojangles and avenged not only Peaches, but the dozens who were killed since his death. But now he was gone, sacrificing himself for the greater good of the ship and to end the life of this cannibalistic clown. And as for the IRF, they were falling apart, losing a large majority of their members to this ambush, finally getting a taste of what they'd done to the other groups on the ship. A lot of people have died, man. A lot of people have died. Guys, I just- I was tired of peaches. Oh, I'm in! I'm in! We gotta go, we gotta go, we gotta go, we're getting shot out again. I didn't mean to turn this into a battle royale. I just wanted to get peaches off of it. It's not your fault. It's not your fault. It's it. Guys, do you guys have food over here, please? We'll open fire on us. We don't have any food. I'm sorry. The only food we have is growing right now. Fucking Vulcan's dead. No. Fucking Vulcan, Indiana's dead. I took the captaincy, but at what fucking cost, man? Even though the IRF are feeling remorseful for what they've done, the attackers weren't giving them a break at all. But they had chose this path of violence, and there was no turning back. There you go. We're moving the bullets. Oh no! Why'd you move? Techno, don't move! What the hell? So who is that? Psycho, no! Psycho, no! Oh my god, bro! What's the plan of action, Captain? What are we- Who needs the best? I need my boy Techno alive. Watch out, Molotov. Who is against us and who's with us? I don't understand. I don't understand. Everyone let's just get underground. That's not even safe. It's not safe. It's not safe. It's not even safe. Are they underground? Underground is not safe. I got you. We got you. We got you. Are you okay? I'm shot. I'm shot. I'm shot. I'm really fucking bad at you. You guys climb down the sheet rope right now. Climb down the sheet rope right now. Follow me. They coming. They're coming. It's SK and the Rock Sky. They want to kill IRF. I see one of the yellow guys. Frenchman. You see him. He's limping away. Where? All the way to greenhouses again. No, my boy French. My boy French. Fuck! They're going for French. They're going for French. Frenchman. We gotta go say French. Fuck it. Fuck it. I cannot leave him behind. I'm fucking dying for French, bro. I'm dying for French. French. Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. No, you can't die. You cannot die and you know that. I'm here. I'm here. It's just us three. The original three and then we got some groups along, but we gotta go. Nice. Someone killed rocks. That was the guy throwing mollies at us. Okay, I got you. Fucking fulkin, man. Dude, I'm sorry. Dude, we lost too many people on this. I know, I'm sorry. You know, all my old factions are dead. Everybody. Now, while you might judge the IRF for what they've done to others, players losing the friends they made while trying to survive on the ship was still sad. But this definitely wouldn't be the end of players dying, as there was yet another problem every player on the ship would have to face. One that might be impossible to stop at this point. I think when we took in all those people, they kind of took all the food. Fuck. Yeah. Guys, we got a problem. We got like tons of flaming zombies and it's raining so now it's time to kill me. Does anyone tell us that you're gonna die? If you're gonna die, do I mean I don't think we ever found one. Watch out! Watch up with fire! Fire! Fire! Fire! Okay, well. Fire! Fire! We're gonna look at the bridge. I'm sorry! Oh my god! We're gonna see what we can find at the bridge. There's so many zombies down here though. Yeah, yeah, way too much. Way too much. Help me. I can't really do that. I think this place is lost. No, we just need to extinguish the fires. We don't have the water for that. I have the fire extinguisher. Oh, what the fuck? Never mind. Cover me, buddy. I'm trying to get you. Deal with him. Deal with him. Get this guy off me. Fucking god, bro. There's too many. There's way too many. Bio, stand back. Stand back, Bio. Bio, stand back. Gather everyone and head to the... Bio! To the entrance of the boat. Bio! Go to the... Stands me! Run, Bio, run! Stand still! Run, Bio! No! I've got the roof! Stop it! No! No! No! No! No! The ship was being overrun by flaming zombies and no one seemed to care until they started losing people. And since they were too focused on their war, the players had just let the fire from the Molotov spread around the ship, leaving no real way to stop it now. But the flaming zombies wouldn't only affect SK as they distracted the IRF at a time where they needed to be as vigilant as they could, leading to some unforeseen consequences for their group. We gotta move. I'm putting my money at the bridge might have stuff. Shit, shit, shit, shit. Hold on, people over there. They're good. Wait. P's. Can we just do it? P's! No, no. Come over here. Get over here. Are you guys chill? Don't come around. No, you're good. You're good. Come on. Come around. Come around. Come around. Sure. I'll put my spear right here. Yeah, yeah, yeah, you're good. How many of y'all are left? Just us, too. I got it. Just us. We're trying to find water, supplies, and get ready for the next event. There's more of them. Hey. Where are these zombies coming from? You don't hear they're... Hey, DM, does anybody have any food for the limit? Ah! Who's shooting? Gunshots. Gunshots are a little scary. I think I got hit. I'm going back to the courthouse report. I'm running away. This is fucked. This is beyond fucked. There won't be a boat left to fight on. They didn't want peace. Okay. Well, there's no boat left. This place is fucked. Half of it's burned down. Guys, I am going to die. I am too. Right now. Oh, dear. I just think if you guys want to hide the captain's hat, I think this captain's hat just causes too many problems. Maybe fucking burn it. Can we just burn it? Gentlemen, I'm about to go. I'm about to die. But please hide the captain's hat. Do not let anyone else get this captain's hat. It causes so many problems from the beginning. It was a pleasure serving with all of you. It was a pleasure playing this game with all of you. This is it for me. Hey, man. The treasure was online. Lucky key. Oh, no. Oh, fuck. Oh, jeez. Alright. Hide that fucking hat. Nobody gets that shit. Yeah, yeah. Take it. Nobody gets it. Fuck. Kya Tso was gone. And even though you can judge him for the mistakes he's made, he had good intentions in just trying to help others. But helping the wrong man ultimately led him to his death. And now the IRF wanted to hide the hat that they sacrificed so many lives to obtain. I mean, as I mentioned, this hat would have the power to determine the fate of all players on this ship. But that wasn't announced to the players yet. And so, respecting Kya Tso's wishes, a member of Guru named Lemon that was with the IRF decided to do this. Actually, I have an idea. Put it on the corpse. Just a random one to hide in the closet. This one right here. Put the hat in here. Can I drop Kya off the edge right here? No, I don't think so. You really want to drop Kya off the ledge. Lemon. Can I open? No. There it goes. I was saying drop, not drop. There goes the hat. Without even knowing what it does, Lemon decided to jump overboard with the captain's hat, which could have unknowingly sealed the fate of every player on this ship. But that was only the case if no one knew the location of it. Because someone could remove the wall and build out to the hat. And the only people who knew the location were the final three members of the IRF, who actually decided to take a stroll around the ship, finally being free of the physical burden of the captain's hat. But they weren't exactly free of any retaliation for their past actions. This way. Who's that? Who's that? Who's that? Who's that? Who's that? Who's that? Who's that? We can't be affiliated with you at this time. We're dead. Everyone's dead. We're done fighting. We're different people. Oh, you're not fighting with SK? No. We're done. We're done. No of our people are dead. We're fucking done. We're fucking done. We burned the captain's hat. SK read his band. No more captains hat. We fucking hit it. Hold on. Hold on. Hold on. Hold on. Wait. Shit. Shit. Shit. Shit. Shit. Shit. Shit. The IRF will live forever. The IRF will never die. See you. Hello. Hello. It's not a very good time. Everyone's dead. Everyone. This is the end bro. This is the end. Okay. They are here. I'm dead. Oh shit. I got shot. Run away. Don't get shot. Wait. Why me? I'm not. It's for me. They are here. Why me? Please not me. Not me. I'm not. I'm just. I've done nothing. I've done nothing. I'm dead. Ah. Get the fuck out of here. Okay. Just don't sh- I'm dying. Oh god. I'm absolutely dead. I'm dead. I'm dead. It's been a pleasure Goony. It's been an honour man. Goodbye Goony. I'm dead already. I'm glad I can remember you man. No. Because of his wounds caused by the mercenaries, this player named Abel Eptic decided to eliminate himself from the event. As I said before, the mercenaries were dangerous, but now it seemed like they were just killing players for the fun of it. And their actions would affect players real emotions. Because after the IRF member Frenchman bled out, there was only one member left. And that was a man named Jimmick. They're all dead. Oh my god. I don't keep fucking mad anymore. Fuck this shit. Fuck. Fuck this shit man. Fuck it all. Now, Jimmick was understandably upset as he's had a pretty tragic experience on the ship. First by joining a faction named Dead, then losing all of his fellow members. Then he joined the IRF and lost all of them as well. It's sad to see someone going from surviving with his friends to watching each and every one of them die around him. And now, as the only person on the ship with knowledge of where the hat was located, he knew he had some powerful information. And soon after the last of his friends died, him and everyone else on the ship would learn through an announcement exactly how powerful the hat really was. So, the final event is going to be announced right now. This final event will involve the captain's hat. So, whoever has it right now, you have two choices, okay? You can either leave out the front bridge with five people of your choosing and they get extracted into another event with their skills, their items, their factions, everything. Okay? They go into a new event. Or, you can either stay on the bridge with five other people and everybody else can extract. And you need to be on the bridge in 30 minutes. Okay? There will also be zombies that are spawning on the ship and on the bridge. Good luck with that. And hopefully this is a nice twist. After hearing this announcement, you might think that extracting into another civilization wouldn't be that exciting. But they'd also enter it with all their skills and items, giving them a huge advantage against basically anything that would try to kill them. And now, Jimmick knew that he could save everyone on the ship or even just save himself. But, would he? I mean, as I said, the hat could be retrievable with a sledgehammer or a well-placed molotov, if someone knew the exact location. But why would Jimmick try to help the players who killed both the groups he was in? Sure, you can argue that Jimmick's groups didn't make the best decisions, but from his POV, all of his friends were dead. And now, with 30 minutes to decide and the ship slowly getting overrun with zombies, he had a decision to make. Save the ship, save himself, or let it all burn. Jimmick is here. There he is. He's walking on the street. This is literally the one guy who knows the location of the hat. He tells somebody. Come on. We need to start searching. We just need to find that hat and give it to whoever, but that hat needs to be found. Who has the captain's hat though? We have to find the hat. That must be... Oh god. Wait, does no one claim the captain's hat? IRF has it still. It's up north somewhere. Oh. They hid it apparently. It... Fucking fucking... Yo, Jimmick. Huh? Do you want to come join us? Uh, sure. Fuck it, dude. Can I get like a faction invite? We're all friendly. There's loads of us up too. Alright, cool. I'll be there soon. I'm not telling them that. I could go to fucking hell. Yeah, Jimmick. Come and Daniel at the alleyway. Come and Daniel at the captain. Oh, shit. Thanks, dude. The person with the captain is... IRF is most likely the captain. We have to do a final push to find them. They're gonna try to expel through the land bridge, guys. And I'm not trying to go for the... Wait, they don't know where the... Let's see. Hey, can I be honest with y'all? I'm pretty sure IRF is dead. All of them are dead. All of them? All of them. Then who the hell has the captain? I don't know. They're hiding. I think they're hiding out. They're waiting to... They're trying to wait it out, I think. I'm cold. Chili all day. No, sir. Oh, there must be. I was gonna make a camper. Guys, let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Woo! Oh, yeah. How do they know? Yo, do you need any protection for zombies? I mean, I have nothing else to need. Nah, I'm good, dude. I got too many hours in this game to die. I'm not gonna lie. Yeah, I'm just gonna walk about because... I mean, some guys at the bridge and stuff, I'm just waiting for something to happen, seeing as, like, literally no one knows who's the captain or who's her. Yeah, I don't know. Hopefully we find the hat. Fucking suck to lose this FAO. Hey, do any of y'all have water? I might be able to cook something up for us. Uh, there's a pot of water I saw. We're all gonna die if we don't get the captain's hat. Hey, if we die, at least... Do you want a good meal before you die? Here's a canteen of water. I want to survive. I don't want to die. I want to find the damn captain's hat and survive. Yeah, let's keep looking around, I guess. They killed my friends. They're all gonna die for that. I don't want to let these murderers survive. They don't deserve to live. At this point, it seemed like Jimmick had his mind set on just toying with the remaining players on the ship, but if he got the hat, he could still leave by himself through the bridge, dooming the remaining players. And it looked like that might have been his plan. Fuck this man, I don't want to die. Hell no. Can I even... God damn it. Oh, he's trying to sheet rope. I don't have enough sheet rope. Wait, he is! He's gonna do it! Jimmick was attempting to climb down and get the hat to save himself, but realized he didn't have enough sheet rope. And instead of rushing to find sheet rope, he still aimlessly wandered around, seeming like he still hadn't made up his mind on what to do. But even if he was planning to save the ship or himself, as time went on, the amount of flaming zombies was increasing pretty drastically, and most of the players were starting to lose hope that they'd ever find the hat, leaving some to come up with a solution of killing players to see if anyone was hiding it in their inventories, quickly devolving the ship into chaos. I gotta say, there's something really sad about seeing everything all dead and on fire, when we were trying to just rebuild life. I think we failed to rebuild. I think we failed. That's kind of what I'm thinking. Oh, it's over. Yo, it's Guru! Don't shoot! Don't shoot! Me-medic! I need a medic! Oh, you're fucked. Y'all killed me. You killed me. Oh, fuck. We're never gonna find it. Run! Run! I'm... I'm... I'm... I'm past them. Vernon, get down, get down. There's no zombies. Yep, they're right down there. They're fighting as well. Let's go help. Too many, too many, too many. I'm inside, inside now. I think this might be the end of the road, my friend. It's not. It's not. Well, if it is, I couldn't have picked a better friend to die with. Everyone's fighting for themselves. They're not listening. What have I said this whole time? Is if we just work as a team together, we could do this. I have seen the strength of many men, and I've seen the massive farms. There is a way to success. But everyone fights for themselves. The mercenaries were killing everyone on the ship to try and find the hat in any way that they could, murdering innocent players and whole factions who just wanted time to say goodbye to their friends before the entire ship was overrun. They even turned on their own faction, killing Keza and completely wiping the entirety of the Free Folk. But the one man who knew the location of the captain's hat was somehow still alive, and he had one final thing to say to the people who killed all of his friends. Hey dumbasses, it doesn't matter. Wait, someone's calling us a dumbass. Someone's calling us a dumbass. Killing me won't do shit, dumbasses. It's over. The hat's gone. We're not. Nobody said we're going to kill you. We're trying to escape the zombies. We fucking got rid of it, dumbasses. None of you will leave it. Oh, it's a badass, dude. You're all fucked. Yep. I'm dead boys, I'm dead. Fuck! I don't give a damn. I don't give a damn! Dumbasses! I win! Fuck you all! You're all dying! It's over! And Jemmik was right. It was over. As the flaming hordes continued to kill the few remaining players on the ship, there were soon only two left. The leader of the charitable NCR clan and a past member of the ship's fallen authority, the Law Clan. I'm not letting them eat me alive. I'll jump first. Me neither. I will too. I won't become one of them. Let's go up top. I don't think there's anything down here left for us anymore. I told my men that I would die before they would. I wouldn't let them die. I think we did the best we could with what we had. Sometimes the good people die at the hands of bad, whether it's fair or not. But we tried. My god, we tried. For what? For a chance at civilization. I think everybody's gonna do the same thing we are and choosing to end it on their own terms. They always said the captain goes down with the ship. Share a final strawberry with me? Yeah. Yeah, I will. Cheers, mate. God. Best strawberry I ever had in my life. Last one too. I kinda wish I had a bullet left. It would be a little quicker than... I guess it's all the same. This is high enough. I don't think we'll feel the thing anyway. It's been an honor, my friend. It has been. Goodbye. Oh, God. I go out in the glory of God. Come at me, you bastards. Long live the NCR. Long live the captain. Long live the ship. Fuck me. No. No. I tried. I'm sorry. And so, with the last remaining player on the ship eventually getting overrun by the Horde, the event was now officially over. Every single player and group was dead. Groups that had so much potential to build something functional on the ship. What could have happened if it didn't all fall apart? Would Peaches have continued to improve his leadership and led the ship to long term prosperity? Would players like Sarge, Rikki Lang, Recon Box, all who wanted to help others have a society where they could do so in peace? Well, now we'll never know because of the actions of a few players who wanted chaos, and ended up bringing every player and the entire ship down with them as well. But while this event had come to an end, a new one would soon begin. Set in a place that might be familiar. The bigicked space is even more escape. Yeah, it was spectacular. Maybe those names are sealed possible for the bank. Get a world warehouse. I can visit the main camera with your special appointments of what NYU Damage is and that guys will visit their best. But if you really don't need, say, he watches it. Really great. I dare to adore you. donner him really well because of you as usual. Single herramient that forever increased.  perorope, equity and last had they?