Working on a Farm | OmoBerry | Farm Songs For Kids + Kids Learning Videos + Rhyming Song
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MZNQBvKxlCo
Film & Animation
 Omu Berry Imani, stop that pig! Kelsey, I'm not a pig wrangler. Kulay, I need some help! I'm not a pig wrangler! But Chia and Maka and I are trying to collect 3 dozen eggs for Farmer Dilley. And so far, we only have 11. Omu Berry, help! How do we get all this farm work done before the sun goes down? Hold your horses! Err, I mean, pigs! Help is on the way! We're working on a farm! Oh, we're working! Working on a farm! Kaka-dooloo-doo! Kaka-dooloo-doo! The roosters said it's time to move! Get up and go as the day begins! Work the land until the day ends! It's hard work and toil in the soil! It's hard work in the soil! Working on a farm! It's hard work and toil in the soil! It's hard work in the soil! Oh, we're working, working on a farm Oh, we're working, working on a farm Find the hens, count the eggs How many dozen did they lay? Feed the horses, clean the stock Stack the hay up to the sky It's hard work and toil in the soil It's hard work and toil in the soil Working on a farm It's hard work and toil in the soil It's hard work in the soil Milk the goats, milk the cows Churning butter takes hours and hours Herb the lamb, shear the sheep Woolly fur makes socks for feet Plows and tractors, picks and hoes Planting seeds in rows and rows Give them water, then wait and see Watch what sprouts from tiny seeds Oh, we're working, working on a farm Oh, we're working, working on a farm Pick some broccoli, pick some kale Pick enough until you fill your pail Pick some berries, pick some fruit We pick until the owl goes hoost Charge for hills, pick someatching open Pick some berries, pick some fruits Since母宮, pick some Martine You're working, working on a farm That was so much fun! Watch it again and see if you can read some words. And sing along! Imani, stop that pig! Kelsey, I'm not a pig wrangler. Kunle, I need some help! I'm not a pig wrangler! But Chia, Maka and I are trying to collect three dozen eggs for Farmer Daily. And so far, we only have eleven. Elmo Berry, help! How do we get all this farm work done before the sun goes down? Hold your horses! Er, I mean, pigs! Help is all the way! journal music plays Oh, we're working, working on a farm Oh, we're working, working on a farm Got to do the doom, got to do the doom The rest is just time to move Get up and go as the day begins Work the land until the day ends It's hard work and toil in the soil It's hard work and toil in the soil It's hard work and toil in the soil Oh, we're working, working on a farm Oh, we're working, working on a farm Find the hens, count the eggs How many dozen did they lay? Feed the horses, clean the stock Stack the hay up to the sky It's hard work and toil in the soil It's hard work and toil in the soil Working on a farm It's hard work and toil in the soil It's hard work in the soil Milk the goats, milk the cows Churning butter takes hours and hours Herd the lamb, shear the sheep Woolly fur makes socks for feet Plows and tractors, picks and hoes Planting seeds in rows and rows Give them water, then wait and see Watch what sprouts from tiny seeds Oh, we're working, working on a farm Oh, we're working, working on a farm Pick some broccoli, pick some kale Pick enough until you fill your pail Pick some berries, pick some fruit We pick until the owl goes hoost It's hard work in the soil It's hard work in the soil Working on a farm And we are working, working on a farm It's hard work in the soil Working on a farm When we are working, working on the soil It's hard work in the soil Living on farm And we are working, working on the farm And we're working, working on a farm Working on the farm Oh, hi friends. Thank you for watching and singing along. Make sure to subscribe so you can be first in line to watch your next episode. You can join our fan club too. To get cool stuff like what I'm wearing, visit our online store at umalberry.com. If you want to get your artwork featured in our episodes, tell your grown-up to contact us today. See you soon!