AgDay: Slower Sales for Farm Equipment & New Precision Technology
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N2szaOFyiOk
Autos & Vehicles
 In this morning's Machinery Minute, the Association of Equipment Manufacturers released its sales report for March 2008 showing slower sales for farm equipment. Two-wheel drive tractor sales were down more than 21 percent compared to March 07 and down more than 20 percent year-to-date. Four-wheel drive tractor sales were down 17 percent from last March and down nearly 5 percent year-to-date. However, self-propelled combine sales were up nearly a third compared to March 2007 and up 28 percent year-to-date. AEM says retail sales followed the seasonal upward trend for March, but sales numbers are lower than the previous three and five-year averages. The Trimble lineup of precision ag and guidance technology continues to grow. At the National Farm Machinery Show in February, Ag Day spoke with representatives about this year's newest technology. Trimble unveiled the integrated FMX display. The system offers a 12.1 touch screen that's a third larger than the previous versions. Trimble sales manager Sid Sifkin explains some of the improvements. We've worked really hard to integrate two GPS receivers. These GPS receivers work together when we're working with autopilot, with true tracker implement steering, or with scrapers for leveling. So the FMX is completely capable of doing autopilot with one receiver and either scraping for grade or implement steering with true tracker. So again, a lot of flexibility comes by having two integrated GPS receivers. Tell me, what kind of functions does the FMX display offer when it comes to planter row shutoff? Planter row shutoff is really, really an important part of our business. And one of the things that we've done is being able to show this demonstration whereby we can shut off individual row sections as we entered into a place where we've applied or planted before. And you can kind of see we're shutting off our coverage map going through the field. So we can control up to 24 rows individually with the FMX display when combined with the True Count air clutches. Trimble made two acquisitions in the last quarter of 2008 as it purchased True Count Incorporated and Rawson Control Systems. For more specs on the FMX display, check out Trimble.com.