How to list farm equipment to rent on MachineryLink Sharing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n4cmD4xqObI
Education
 Listing equipment on Machinery Link Sharing is easy. Simply choose a piece of equipment, fill out the specs, upload a few pictures, and set a price. Here we will take you through that process step by step. In order to get started, first log into your account. Then click List Equipment in the upper right-hand corner of your screen. On this screen, give your equipment listing a title. Typically, the equipment make, model, and type. And describe it in as much detail as possible. Next, fill out your equipment location. If you have the ability to deliver the equipment to the user, either as part of the rental or for an additional fee, check the Transportation Available box and indicate any shipping instructions. Select a cancellation policy, and you're ready to proceed to the next step. On the next page, enter the make, model, year, and any additional details you feel are important about your equipment. You may also indicate whether you are willing to provide an operator for the equipment. In the box labeled Rules, you may specify requirements for use of your equipment. In the Frequently Asked Questions section, accessible on any page, we've provided some examples of typical equipment use rules. The more information you provide, the better. Detailed listings allow renters to make more informed decisions and decreases the amount of questions or concerns a customer may have. Next, upload a few photos by clicking the Choose Photos button. Typically, we recommend a picture of all sides and at least one interior photo as well. Also, make sure to choose a featured photo. This is the main photo for the piece of equipment. After you have uploaded your pictures, you will set the daily rental rate for the equipment, assuming that the user will utilize the equipment 8 hours per day. The overage rate is only applicable to equipment with an hour meter and allows you to bill for use over the included minimum rental of 8 hours per day. Equipment without an hour meter will be billed at the daily rate. Finally, you can block off any dates that your equipment will not be available. For example, when you'll likely be using the equipment for your needs. Once you finish, click Save and Publish, where you will be prompted with another window to agree to the terms and conditions, and then click Publish once more. After this is done, your equipment is ready and available to be rented. You can promote your own piece of equipment by sharing your listing via your preferred social media apps. The more people that see your listing, the better. The more people that you would be interested is to follow the supplies they have l Uh- adamant Navy 4öhls. There are many designs that represent all of our projects MV10 and elders that want to be built. For crear urban Sell floating equipment they live for year opposing port decks! Or any other festival events, we'd love to shine. Fabihkurkurוח networks were one of our projects. Además, there will be a Pictureoo Logo space. Here is an opportunity for those incrediblefolg