The Ai robot transforming agriculture
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N5apVty6Ipc
News & Politics
 Meet CLAWS, a robot created to make the future of farming more sustainable. The prototype is designed for two main tasks, weeding and crop monitoring. It's a combination of artificial intelligence and robotics, and its makers say it can get into the tough spots when farmers or other equipment cannot. Nobody really wants to go through a field weeding on a really wet, windy, cold day, so why not give it to a robot? PLOS stands for Concentrated Light Autonomous Weeding and Scouting. The robot was designed by Earth Rover. It uses patented concentrated light technology to eliminate weeds, without damaging surrounding crops or soil. James Miller is the CEO of the agriculture tech startup. So the best way of describing it is a schoolboy with a magnifying glass. So it concentrates the light onto a small focal point on the meristem, the growing point of the weed, and delivers a small pulse of energy, which is enough to kill the weed. On the left is what the field looks like, and on the right is what CLAWS sees. It takes an individual photograph and assesses the crop beneath it, identifies the crop, protects that, and then identifies the weeds around it, and says they're enemy, I'm targeting those. And that all happens in a split second and starts shooting at the weeds. Miller says this method is more sustainable by reducing greenhouse gas emissions that could be released during soil disturbance. To help monitor crop health, CLAWS is equipped with eight built-in cameras. It collects real-time data using AI computer vision, which is then sent to Earth Rover's Farm Control and Intelligence System. The information allows farmers to make timely decisions about the health and growth of the crop. CLAWS runs on battery and solar power, and operates autonomously in different terrains and weather conditions. Earth Rover has plans to deliver units to customers for testing in 2025. Commercial availability is slated for 2026. E And став forest improvements in the project is in the inicio لعند Time to dispatch of the revisedzers based on the left wing management system. biking Let's experience it!