How to Grow Carrots in Your Garden: Harvest & Seed Planting Examples - All the Steps!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n5vZjrr0g5Q
Howto & Style
 Welcome to the rusted garden homestead. This video is all about how do you grow carrots. We're going to do a harvest so you can see what you're going to get and then I'm going to go over with you how to basically direct sow carrot seeds. They're best sown directly. You don't want to grow transplants and then I'm going to show you how to use a sheet of cardboard to help with germination. Carrots from the time of germination can take about 70 days to mature and you can buy all kinds of different carrot sizes meaning round carrots, short 4 to 6 inch carrots or longer carrots. I have heavy clay soil. I like growing carrots that mature to about 6 inches. It really makes a difference. Carrots here have been growing since April. It's June 15th. They can take up to 21 days to germinate. They're going to do a little bit better now with germination because it's warmer. They do best in the cooler temperatures but you can grow them through the summer and then you can grow them in the summer into the fall again. So let's just get to the best point really is the harvest and this is I believe it's a Danvers variety carrot. This is what I want so I'm going to really go in and harvest all the carrots. They're going to be different sizes. Well I just broke one. You don't want to rock these back and forth. You want to loosen the soil maybe use a shovel then pull them out straight so I have to get the tips out of there. But that's you know pretty nice. Let's see if we can get a couple more. Just gently try and pull them straight up. I mean look at that. Beautiful. You do have to loosen up the soil a little bit so if you're you know subscribing to a no dig style. And these are planted pretty closely together too. If you're subscribing to a no dig style that's fine and it does make sense but sometimes when you're growing root crops you definitely want to loosen the soil. Let's pull a couple more out of here. So you get the idea. This is everything that I've pulled out. They look pretty good. Your carrots upper growth looks something like this and you can actually use this in cooking. I haven't figured out how to use it yet but people do use it. If your carrots stay in too long these are all beautiful they're going to start to flower and they have wonderful flowers. They attract pollinators. You can see some more examples here. That means that I've had these carrots in here a little bit too long. You don't want them to get to the point where they're sending out a flower just like in here or it's going to change basically the texture of your carrot. You want to pull these out when they're crisp, crunchy, sweet, not after they've started to flower. I mean just look at these. I mean if you have clay soil it can be hard for the growing tip to really work its way down and you get you know twisted carrots which is not a disease or a problem. They're still very very good but we do want to loosen the soil. So let me pull these out and we'll get to planting or direct seeding carrots. Just wanted to show you an example of the spacing. About an inch apart is pretty good and it's an inch going in both directions. I do plant in a square. If you have disease pressure or insect pressure with your vegetables sometimes it's best to do long rows. So I would just do you know a carrot a carrot space like that one row right next to it another row. But I would put a bigger space in between so that you have more airflow. Birds can get in they can look for insects. So just depending on what kind of problem pressure you're getting in your garden. You may want to do a square like I do or you might want to do rows. But the distance about an inch. Carrot seeds are small so right here two drop next to each other rather than you know thin them down to just one. I leave them in there. They're much smaller. Sometimes they do fine. They push each other out of the way. Grown by themselves you know well given more space sometimes they're a little bit bigger. It's really up to you how you want to do it. Again spacing's up to you. If you put two close together this could happen. Kind of a cool garden sculpture. Perfectly edible. This is going to make it to Instagram. That's a pretty good carrot harvest for that small space. We'll go back to that in a second. Again I believe they were the Danvers variety but a four to six inch carrot. They did really really well. I tried growing some round carrots. Don't really like how they produce. Not really worth it to be honest with you. I mean it's just not big enough. They were growing the same amount of time so I'm going to get rid of this variety. I'm not going to grow it anymore. I tested it out. I don't like it. Really wasn't worth the time. But these four to six inch carrots are beautiful so that's what I'm going to plant back into that space. And here was the space. Not you know not a lot of room and I got a good amount of carrots out of there. Now we're going to loosen up the soil. First thing you want to do is any organic granular fertilizer. Doesn't matter what it's called. There's all kinds of different names. Tomato, pepper, you know fruit, leafy green, blooming. It doesn't matter what type of fertilizer it is. It's just an organic granular with N, P, and K represented. You're going to put down pretty heavy handfuls. Something like that across the surface. And we're going to loosen the top four to six inches because those carrots want to go down. So I don't want them hitting, I don't want them, you know, hitting tough soil where they get curled up. Those are pretty straight. I'm happy with that. So you're replacing some of the fertilizer with organic granular. If you had compost, I would throw in two shovelfuls, mix it into there. That will be perfect for your carrots. So let me loosen this up four to six inches deep and then we'll get to planting. You want the organic granular to get really mixed through that top four to six inches. It's loosened up. Soil's really dry. That's going to be one of the keys. You need to keep moisture in here, especially for germination. That's how we're going to use the cardboard over there in a second. When I was digging in there, I found the toad, which is a good sign because they eat problematic insects. But it might freak you out a little bit when you're, at least it did me, when you're turning the soil and you see something jump at you that you think is soil. Looks pretty good. I am going to add in a couple shovelfuls of compost that I make. Just give this a little more N, P, and K, but mostly to just help retain moisture in here. You really want your carrots to have that moisture. Add in my compost and, you know, if you have it, use it. If you don't have it, you can skip it. You can just set it up, you know, like I was showing you. So spread the compost across there and then I just go through, quickly mix it in, break up any chunks or anything like that. If they don't break up nicely, just toss them out of the way. This is going to really have, well, this is really going to set up the soil nicely for growing carrots. And I'm just going to do that across the whole bed. This is how I like to plant my carrots here in Maryland. I'm in Maryland Zone 7. Carrot seeds don't like to be pushed really far into the earth. So just a light finger hole about an inch apart. My row of carrots consists of two rows. So carrots down here, carrots down here, I consider that one row. If you don't have a lot of disease and pest pressure, maybe start the next row right over here. Give it a little bit more space. If you feel like you have problems, start your next row over here. This will give more space for airflow, for birds, you know, different animals to come in and hopefully tend to your garden for you. Birds will do that a lot of times with worms and other problems. So this is how I like to set it up. The other thing is that's an easy four to six inches of loose soil. So yeah, sometimes you do have to dig and turn your garden. You didn't wreck anything in here. As your soil gets better and better, maybe you don't have to dig it or turn it. But especially when you're planting seeds, sometimes you have to loosen up that top four to six inches. All right, let's get to dropping the seeds. The carrots I'm growing are part of the Rusted Garden Scan and Grow Collection. If you turn this over, there's a QR code. Scan it. It'll give you planting instructions. And these are the Danvers Half Longs. Carrot seeds are really small. They look something like that. And I've planted two. I don't know if you can see them, but I planted two per hole. I will thin them down to one. And I did a row here, a row here, and a row here. And that's a lot of carrots just for this little space. Carrots, like I was saying, are best grown really early spring into early summer or later summer into the fall. Now that it's June 15th, if the soil bakes from the sun, getting up to 80, 90, 100 degrees, the carrots aren't going to grow really well. So I'm going to show you how to use cardboard to help them get off to a good start, germinate, keep the soil cooler. They prefer to germinate when the temperatures are below 75 degrees Fahrenheit. But I'm also going to use shade cloth. To keep the soil cool. And this way I can get some carrots over the summer. But if it's too hot in your area, this video will be great. Come later August, you can plant your carrots and you can grow them into the fall. So now that I have two seeds per depression, about a quarter inch deep, I'm just going to lightly cover them over. And then we're going to soak this whole area down. The soil is pretty dry, even down to that four to six inches. So I really want to water in this area, water in the seeds. With the higher temperatures, 80, 85 degrees, this would dry out really quickly, within a day. The heat from the sun is going to warm this up, like I was saying, to 90 to 100 degrees. We're going to put cardboard over this. That will keep moisture in there. That helps speed up germination of the carrots. And what you have to do is, for the first really seven days, you don't need to worry about it. Carrots just don't germinate that quickly. But after seven days, you want to peek under there. And when you see any germination, that's when you want to remove the cardboard. And maybe do it every other day after that week, just so you're catching them just when you're breaking the surface. Remove the cardboard, keep them well watered. You might have to water every other day. You may, maybe you can get away with watering every three days. It's really going to vary. But you want to keep moisture in here. If you want to subscribe and follow me, I'll show you how to use shade cloth. Right now, I have sunflowers all around here, which are actually going to help keep this area a little bit shadier and cooler. But I use shade cloth during the summer to really manage down the soil temperatures, so that sometimes I can grow cool weather crops. And it also keeps my tomatoes and peppers from shutting down. And again, if you follow me, I'll show you how I do that. So the carrots are in. Let's get to watering. We're not going to feed these anymore. That's plenty of fertilizer in there with my compost with your organic granular. If you wanted to, you could water them in maybe with a fish emulsion, you know, one shot deal, be done with it. But just let the carrots grow after that. What they're going to need is water. Watering is a question I get asked about all the time. And I can't give you an exact answer because it just varies depending on the temperatures, your garden, how big the crops are. So because we just put seeds in, we want to be careful we don't blast the seeds out of the planting area. But we really want to soak in this whole area. And I'm going to do this in real time so you get a sense of how much water I'm putting down now. Remember, we're trying to get this down to, you know, a good four inches, six inches into the soil. That water will be waiting there for the carrots. When seeds germinate, they send a root down straight, typically first. That root looks for water. The green comes after that. The root system's all set up and it can support all that canopy growth. And I'm going to go a little bit longer. Water is the best friend to your garden. And we tend to underwater. You can't really overwater these seeds. The soil is pretty good. It's going to drain past them. It's going to drain deeper into the ground. You know, we might sometimes over worry about overwatering. So this is a great soaking. Now, water's there. It's to depth. Sun comes out. It's going to dry that top one or two inches right where the carrot seed is sitting. That's why you have to come out every other day and just make sure you're watering all your seeds that you put out there to keep that water in that top one inch, two inches while the seed germinates and sets up its root system. The next thing we're going to do is cut up some of this cardboard, lay it down here, soak it, and that's going to keep that top one inch, two inches nice and moist through germination. This method of growing carrots really works for me. I recommend, you know, you use these as principles, you know, test them out, change them up a little bit to fit your garden. I'm only putting down cardboard on two thirds. I want to see how the other row does without cardboard. I always like to experiment in my garden. You may have to soak this down a couple of times. You want it to soak all the way through to the point that it's no longer rigid. And this is, of course, going to dry first, but it's going to protect the seeds from the baking sun. It's going to keep moisture in there. And remember, after a week, check this pretty regularly so that you catch it as the seeds are germinating, remove it. And that's all you really have to do to grow carrots. The half longs are wonderful. Please check out my seed shop for the Scan and Grow collection. And please subscribe and follow me. I'll show you how to grow just about everything you can in a garden. And I'll show you how I use shade cloth. You can see some of it back there over my broccoli. I'll show you how I use it over the summer to keep pepper plants and tomato plants producing. Thanks for watching.