Farm Robotics Challenge Team Meeting with Tend 3-18-25
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N5W8HNN8Pyo
Science & Technology
 fourth webinar. We think this one will be really valuable as teams working in the land category to learn about a potential software tool you might be able to utilize on your projects this spring. So I am going to hand the conversation over to Tomer and he's going to talk about the TEND software farm management tool, really comprehensive tool for farm management. One of the first to have an AI powered tools for crop planning, task management, record keeping, inventory management, everything that you'd need to manage a farm and now you can also command a fleet of robots apparently. So he's gonna go through that and tell us about it and Tomer we're happy to have you on the call. I will stop sharing and you can kind of take over from here. Excellent. Thank you so much, Kelly. I just wanted to check, am I audible well? You sound good. Okay. And you can see the screen, right? I can see you. Okay. So let me see if I can share it. One second. Okay. Double checking is my screen visible the slide deck. I am just seeing the participants here. Okay. I get a confirmation from someone that we are visible. So, okay. Strange. Let me change my own view. Thank you guys for joining. And welcome to this quick webinar here. So we're going to be talking about... So first of all, let me introduce myself. My name is Tomer Petal. I'm a product specialist at Tend. What is Tend? Tend is a leading farm management software for modern growers. And we have with us here, Marcelo from Farming G, which is the manufacturer of the Amiga robots that you guys are using in your projects. And I'm going to talk about how both of them work together to increase automation in the farm and also how we implemented it and share with you the implementation or a way to use this implementation in your projects as well. So yeah, a quick word on the agenda here. I'm going to introduce you guys to the Tend platform first. Then I'm going to show how the Amiga integrates with the Tend. Then I'm going to describe the cloud-based API that we've created to control the Amiga and how we can use it, how you guys can use it in your projects. And then we'll do some Q&A and talk about next steps. So Tend... Let's start with Tend. Tend is a software used for farm management. One of its highlights is the ability to perform crop planning, generation of farming tasks, being able to manage those tasks, track those tasks, and a lot more things that a farmer needs. So I'm going to jump right into a quick demo here and show you what this looks like. So when a farmer uses our software here at Tend, typically they start by describing their farm assets on a map. So this is our test farm in Santa Cruz, California. So this is our test farm in Santa Cruz, California. And what you start with usually is by mapping out your fields, wherever you grow crops. And that's done using this tool here. You add a growing location. I've already added a couple of these for the demo here. The other thing that I added is beds. So within each field there are going to be beds for growing the crops. Okay. And I also added what you'll see here, you'll see these green lines. These green lines are paths for the Amiga. Our Amiga is currently stored over here. The robot. So these are paths that tell the robot how to get to the field and then how to exit the field and go to its original location, the storage location. The next thing a farmer will do is go ahead and add the crops that they grow. I'm going to go ahead and add, I've already added four as you can see. A lot of our farmers have over a hundred crops. So I'm going to add beets and describe the variety that I choose. So we'll go with the, we'll go with just the albino and I harvest it as a mature root. So I add that. Once I do that, I can go ahead and set up what's called the growing template. The growing template is like the recipe of how I grow this crop. So the final location for it is in the ground. I started from seeds and I use precision sowing. Once I specify these parameters, I can go ahead and add a lot more information on what I do and how I, how I grow this crop, including timelines. What, how it's laid on the, on the bed in terms of spacing, many more parameters, germination rate, things related to revenue. One of the more important things is the automated tasks. So the whole point of Tend is that when you create your crop plan, you also automatically create tasks. So by default, we'll have the precision and harvest, but we can add, for example, thinning on the field. Let's say we're going to do it 20 days after so. And repeat. Let's say repeat every Thursday. Thinning of this is kind of important. What I would experience. So we've, so essentially we continue to do that. We specified our recipe and then the farmer would go in and start creating their plan. So for example, if we want to add the beets to our plan, we can select it over here. And let's say we want to grow a hundred heads. Put a hundred. And then what happens is as I do that, all this information populates on the left with how many seeds I'm going to need and what's the area that I'm going to require and so on. As well as dates, I can change the dates according to my plan. I can also adjust it later if needed. Six. And then once I create this planting, the tasks are automatically generated. They're going to trickle on here. The thinning, the sewing, harvesting, and so on. At that point, the farmer would start executing their tasks. So for example, the task we just added is over here with the beets. And you can assign the tasks to people. Like I can assign it to Ricardo or myself or other people that I have on the farm and so on. And there's a way to manage it on a calendar. So you can move tasks about as if the schedule changes. One other thing that is important is to assign planting to a location. So here we can see our fields. And we can see here. So we can drag and drop the plantings onto the beds and see if they fit okay. So yeah, this part is currently not working because it's a staging server, but we'll skip that part. Anyway, but in general, when it's working, you can assign the props to fields and be able to see your utilization on the field. So we looked at mapping the farm, setting up the defaults, creating plantings, tracking tasks, assigning them to workers and scheduling tasks. So now let's talk a little bit about the Amiga. So what we've developed here at 10 is the ability to use the Amiga as one of the equipment items in the task. I'll show you in a second. A task can have equipment associated with it, and the Amiga can be the equipment. We've created the proof of concept where we dispatch the Amiga to the field. And then we use arrow controls to fine tune the location, execute the task on the bed, and then return to storage. So I'm going to show you quickly what that looks like on the UX. Let's see here. So our bits that we just created, this is what the tasks look like. There's an equipment section in which I can select my Amiga. Okay, there's a couple of parameters that I can put in to tell it how to get to the field and how to return to storage. So I already pre-programmed this with those labels. So I'm going to show you quickly. Then what I do is when I'm near the Amiga, I can open this in my mobile app or in my iPad. And I can click this box here, which is a controller. It's a way to basically control the Amiga in detail to execute the task. So right now we're seeing it as a red dot in our storage shed. This is actually live in real time. We're not going to be moving the Amiga for this demo because we currently don't have anybody there to monitor. Since this is a remote demo. But in general, you would be sitting, you would be standing next to the Amiga and doing this. So the first thing we're going to do is we're going to set it up. Setting it up means installing the implement, like the sewing, in this case the precision sewer. And making sure it's ready and loaded with seeds. Once this is complete, we can click on the start. This, what this will do, it will actually move the unit based on the path that I showed earlier. Through here and position it to the field. At that point, I use these arrows here to fine tune the location. In order to move it right in front of the bed where it needs to go. Then I engage the implement. And then execute the task at this point. When I do that, the Amiga will actually start traveling through the bed and performing the sewing. I'm going to be next to it or somewhere nearby. Complete that. Disengage the implement and then navigate home. Which will take it through that other route that we saw earlier and go back to its storage location. Okay, so this is what it looks like in 10. So we looked at setting it up as an equipment and using it to complete a task. Okay, so now let's get technical. The point here is to explain how we did the control from the 10 app and how you can use it as well. So normally you need to be on a tail scale VPN to control the robot. Our app is not on a tail scale VPN. We have a mobile app. We have a web app. It's disconnected. How? We created the Amiga Cloud API, what we call. And it allows you to control the robot from anywhere as long as you're authenticated. And it also simplifies the code. Instead of using the gRPC commands, you can use simple REST commands, as I will show. It's a public API hosted on the 10s cloud instance. Allows the remote control and also supports both movement and GPS. This is what it looks like in terms of architectural diagram. So you have your Amiga Cloud here, what we call. And essentially it's comprised of a Google Cloud server with this URL. It's inside a tail scale with the Amigas that we want to control. So right now we have our test one in Rancho SoCal that I just showed. But you guys can potentially add your robots to this VPN. And then what happens is HTTP request comes in here and we convert that to gRPC and simplify the mechanism. There's some logic here to make a much simpler API call to activate complicated things on the robot. And so now what I showed you is our staging server using it. But your apps can also use it or you can set up your own. I'll talk about that in order to control the robot via this cloud interface. This can be a mobile app, a web app or anything else. So let me talk a little bit about this API. So basically it's very straightforward and simple to use. You have get to get the GPS position and then you can post movement commands like forward, backward, left and right with the duration. If you want to control, fine tune this, these commands use the move essentially, which is the higher capability API in which you can put the velocity and the angular velocity as well. So you can control if the robot's going straight or turning and how fast. There's a stop API as well. And then one other one is what we call follow. And the idea with follow is that you give it a list of waypoints loaded to the magnitude and correction factor and it will follow that path essentially. And then anytime you can do a status check to see what the robot's doing in terms of its activity with the API. Okay. So how can you use this? If you want to use it as well, you can email a request to me. Put this in the subject title. Currently, we're limited to supporting up to three accounts in our cloud instance just because of bandwidth. So if I get more than three requests, I'm going to do a little lottery and pick three people by March 24th. If there is a lot of demand for this and people really want to use it in their projects, I can offer this in an open source format where you can set it up in your own cloud. And just in return, we just ask you that any API improvements comes back to us. So that's another option. So the first three that I pick through lottery can use our own instance and the other ones need to set up their own. After that, you know, once you're chosen, we'll configure tail scale for you, create an account in the server, test, and then you can integrate into your app. And that's it. Short and sweet. And I'm open for questions. Hey, Tomer, looks like there's one in the chat there. Could you talk about latency with your API calls? Sure, sure. Yeah, it's actually very fast. For example, when I click on this arrow, less than a second later, the robot would move. Extremely fast. Probably no more than a second. Latency. All right, guys. If there's anything else, feel free to just chime in, tap it in the chat. We also, Tomer, thank you. Really appreciate running through that, the demo, the offer for the teams to be able to utilize this on their projects. Really appreciate the support from you. We'll give you guys a few more seconds to think about questions. But I know we also have Marcelo on the line here from FarmNG. And while we're kind of waiting, Marcelo, I wondered if you had any updates or anything you wanted to share from your desk about the teams you've been working with. Maybe things have been coming up lately that you can kind of report back on. Anything to share? Nothing in particular. I think it's we started seeing the projects coming up, like the summaries. Really excited to see what you guys are working on. You know, very high level stuff there. I would say, you know, I've been interacting with a lot of you. I saw a lot of the names that I'm interacting here via email or discourse. I would say, well, keep the questions coming. And the earlier you guys get to us and, you know, ask questions, the better. And, you know, don't leave it to the last minute because, you know, integration and everything working is difficult. So send your questions our way as soon as possible. Great. Thanks, Marcelo. Yeah. And my email here, feel free if you're not ready to ask any questions now, feel free to send anytime. I'll respond pretty quickly. I think I see one more question. Is there support for custom tasks routine for the Amiga? Intend. So, yeah. You can do custom tasks intend for sure. We have a database of, I'll show it. So you can create new tasks. We have a big database of task types, but you can always add new tasks. So we can do like, you know, something that's very Amiga specific. Amiga X, Y, Z. I'm going to call it. Okay. So that's going to be a tie just for the Amiga. And then what you can do here. Within the equipment. You choose the Amiga. You can add attributes. That can feed information into the Amiga. And then what you can do is add to perform your custom tasks. So I only have these attributes, but you can add additional attributes. Basically, it's a name value pair. And then what you can do is add to the Amiga. That you can use. So, for example, if the custom task would be. I don't know. Maybe. Go to the. You know. I can't think of one. Maybe just go to the charger or something like that. Or charge yourself. Right? Something specific to that. Then you can add all the necessary attributes. In order for it to do it in this task. And then it will be your own specific task type. I hope that answered the question. Thank you. Tomer. Would you be able to send me that. PowerPoint. So that I can. Just mail it out to the others that weren't able to be on the call today. And so they have your information. Happy to. Yep. Okay. And then also this is recorded. So we are going to post it. So that. The whole cohort can tune in and view it as they wish. But. I think unless anybody else has. Any last minute questions. We'll probably call it a little bit. Early today. And. Let you dive into your projects and. Work on some things. Yeah. And just one final word here again. If you didn't. I know we went really, really fast. So if anybody has questions. Send me an email. I will return with a Calendly link. And we can set up a one-on-one call. And I can go into a lot more detail with whoever is interested. So. I do have the time to support you guys for that. So. Yeah. I know we went really, really fast. So. Yeah. Just email me. I'll email you back a calendar. And we will schedule a time to. To do a deeper dive with anybody who is interested. Thank you guys. Fantastic. Thank you Tomer. Thank you Marcelo. Appreciate you guys. Thank you. Thank you guys. Yeah. Thank you. Thank you everyone for tuning in. Looking forward to seeing your projects here. At the end of April. All right. Take care everybody. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye.