MSU Agribusiness Management Major Courses AND Career Paths | Day 42/90
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n_RkteBCHkA
Education
 This major is ideal for students who are interested in agricultural supply and demand, agricultural production, supply chain management, commodity assembly and marketing. Welcome back to day 42 of my 90 day challenge where for 90 days I am highlighting a college major, letting you know what it's about, what courses to expect in college and what are some of the career paths you can get into with these degrees. Today we're talking about agribusiness so let's get started. Agribusiness management is an interdisciplinary field that looks at the application of business skills and concepts in the agricultural industry. So this major prepares you to look at marketing, finance, management and economics in the agricultural sector. This major is ideal for students who are interested in agricultural supply and demand, agricultural production, supply chain management, commodity assembly and marketing. According to the US Bureau of Labor Statistics, the median pay of an agricultural manager is about $68,000 a year. This translates to about $33 an hour. $68,000 a year is a little bit lower than the national median income of about $78,000. However, depending on which state you're in, $68,000 is actually enough to live on. Loving what you're hearing so far? Let me know by giving this video a like and let's look at some of the courses we expect when majoring in agribusiness management. As a very broad major, courses in agribusiness management are heavily dependent on the individual's interest. You could either focus your courses in farming management, agricultural marketing, personnel management, public policy or even agricultural production. However, you can expect core courses in farm management, decision making in agri-food system, data analysis in agri-food systems, wild food population and poverty, food products marketing, ecological economics and introduction to micro and macro economics. Advanced courses include commodity marketing, strategic management for agribusiness farms, corporate environmental management, statistics and even managerial economics. Again, depending on your interest, you may also take classes in supply chain management or public policy. As I said, this major is very broad so you may take electives that are in a particular focus area. For example, at Michigan State, the core areas of study include agri-food systems, commodity marketing, agribusiness and good industry sales and macro and micro economics. In addition to courses, you may also be required to participate in undergrad research, independent study or internships in order to graduate with a degree in agribusiness management. As you decide what you're interested in and what you want to focus on when it comes to agribusiness management, it is always a good idea to talk to your academic advisor to plan out your semesters so you don't take unnecessary classes. Books and tuition can be very expensive. For a full list of courses offered for this major specifically at Michigan State, I will leave a link in the description for you to check out after this video. Still with me? Let me know by leaving this thumbs up in the comments section and let's look at some of the career paths you can get into with a degree in agribusiness management. With a degree in agribusiness management, you can work in the education sector, work for the government, non-profit organization or work directly with your community. Some of the job positions that require a degree in agribusiness management include a commodity trader, a farm manager, manufacturing manager, marketing manager, public relations manager, sales, sales manager, agronomy sales representative or a financial analyst. You could also further your studies in graduate school and work towards becoming an academic professor or even a research scientist. Do you know any agribusiness management students or graduate? How about sharing this video with them to show them that you know something about their major? If you want to learn more about college majors, careers and undergrad research tips, consider subscribing especially if you're a Michigan State University student because I use MSU resources as examples in most of my videos. Watch this video next and I will see you all tomorrow as we discuss agriculture, food and natural resources education. Jackify out!