Conviron Corporate Overview - Plant Growth Chambers & Walk In Rooms
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n_yJqwPAS_0
Science & Technology
 For almost 50 years, Conviron has been the world leader in the design, manufacture, and installation of controlled environment systems for plant science research. During that time, we have built a strong record of achievement based on a deeply held conviction that our primary role is to support the work and mission of our clients. Our specialized equipment comprises reach-in-plant growth chambers, walk-in rooms, our new Conviron growth house, and high-performance research greenhouses. Each unit is designed to precisely control light, temperature, humidity, airflow, and various other environmental conditions. Recognizing the value of a complete solution for our clients and that each client has unique needs and challenges, a significant portion of our business includes the design, supply, and installation of custom equipment. Our team of design engineers, technologists, and application specialists carry expertise in all aspects of design and system integration. Based on this philosophy of innovation, our role is far more than simply a supplier of products. Every Conviron client becomes a lifetime partner of our company. This means that we are at our client's side to make modifications and adaptations to equipment throughout the operational life of the facility. This client-centric approach is the reason we have commissioned more controlled environment systems for plant growth in more research facilities than any other manufacturer in the world. This is also why our clients range from startup companies to many of the largest and most prestigious corporate and academic institutions in the world. In the plant science industry, Conviron is the premier supplier of plant growth chambers and rooms with more large-scale installations than any other supplier worldwide. At Conviron, our expertise in assuming full responsibility for a project allows our clients to focus on their important research while leaving the equipment details to us. Conviron. Conviron. Building partnerships. Creating solutions. solutions.