L 45   The agrarian economy in ancient Greece 001
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ne-BV4xsQLM
People & Blogs
 Hello dear students and welcome to today's class. The topic of today's lecture is the Agrarian Economy in Ancient Greece. There are certain objectives of the topic. We will be talking about the Agrarian Economy of Ancient Greece. We will be able to understand the diverse crop patterns prevalent in Ancient Greece and the extent of the people's expertise in the cultivation of various crops to determine the extent to which the Greek economy was self-sufficient or dependent in the economies of the neighbouring countries. Agriculture remained the cornerstone of city economies throughout the ancient past, as in many minimally mechanised ruler cultures. Agriculture in Ancient Greece required a large labour force, especially during harvest and grape-picking seasons. And it employed vast majority of the population, about 80% in those agricultural pursuits. Agriculture supplied a significant amount of the raw materials used by the artisans and merchants. It influenced landscapes, communities, conventionals and mores. Since citizens jointly and publicly owned the land and have always wavered property ownership, as their more or less exclusion right, it has remained their domain par excellence throughout its history. They often even made political choices to offer land to the landless citizens. This was accomplished by subdividing existing plots or establishing colonies or killuriches, which means allocating parcels of land outside the city. Land ownership has historically been the foundation of the majority of significant fortunes. The work done on the land was more than any other economic activity, characterised by more ideals, conservatism and routine. It followed the regular pattern established by the passage of the seasons, holidays and rituals. Permanent worry, drought and diseases, harming crops and livestock, discourage agricultural workers from taking risks in lieu of adhering to tried and true methods. Natural conditions virtually everywhere enforced the limitations of intensive dry agriculture, whose yields could only be enhanced by maximizing arable land exploitation and expanding the labour force. Despite sheer characteristics, the world of agriculture was neither homogeneous nor stagnant. Soil and precipitation differed from region to region, prompting adaptations and other decisions. Agriculture and agricultural properties have changed and diversified over time. Until the 3rd century BCE, population and urbanization pressures caused the towns to expand agricultural land. Some progress has been made in the processing of agricultural goods. The process of cultivation for example, they also improved as the classical period progresses, as is evidenced by the introduction of agronomy, botany and diet manuals as well as the experiments in adapting new species to production in the Egyptian Theum around the 3rd century BCE. Now we will be talking about some sources on agriculture. Despite the significance of agriculture, ancient textual materials depicting Greek agricultural practices are difficult to locate. Columella, a Roman agricultural author of the 1st century BCE, was aware of numerous Greek authors who had written on this subject but almost all of their works have been destroyed. Works and Days, which is a text penned by a very important author whose name is Hesiod, composed of this text approximately in around 700 BCE, is regarded as one of the very important and oldest and most reliable historical sources. This poem gives useful information regarding the operation of an archaic Greek farm and the times of the year when specific duties were to be accomplished. Written more than 300 years later, Xenophonus Ocunomicus is essentially a discourse between Socrates and a wealthy Athenian named Esomachus regarding the management of farmhouses. Esomachus discusses his methods with Socrates who says that farming is the ideal carrier for an Athenian man, as farmers generate food and are the most willing and able to protect the city-states. Theophrastus, a philosopher of the 4th century BCE, penned two botanical treatises with the name Decauses Palantarum and Historia Palantarum , both of which include a wealth of helpful knowledge regarding the Greek agriculture. Theophrastus also authored a humorous, albeit stereotyped little character analysis of the Greek farmer whom he depicts as crude and ignorant. Theophrastus, who is a poet from Syracuse who lived in 3rd century BCE, is credited with inventing pastoral poetry which idealizes the rural life. Several of his edlies have survived, typically depicting herders relaxing and singing in pastoral settings. From Greek estates in Ptolemaic Egypt, a new category of evidence has emerged, like accounts, books and other records pertaining to the management of huge farmers. Even though these manuscripts are frequently incomplete and difficult to decipher, they contain vital information about what was grown, who worked on the estates and how much they were paid. The most important archaeological technique for studying ancient agriculture is known as the survey archaeology, in which a team of archaeologists goes over and studies vast expenses of land for surface remains of ancient activity. This method can disclose traces of historic farmhouses and communities, allowing archaeologists to construct a picture of land usage and settlement. Important information of Greek agriculture has been uncovered through the excavation of rural areas like farmhouses. A lot of the agricultural instruments have difficulty in researching Greek agriculture, since many of the agricultural instruments were made of wood and therefore they have been lost. Now talking about the agricultural labour and the products, first we will be discussing in this subtitle the crops. Classic Mediterranean societies grew crops which consisted of cereals, vineyards and olive trays. This trio has always predominated, but the Greeks also cultivated other crops, particularly legumes. Agricultural operations required continuous focus throughout the year. The climate of the Mediterranean determined their rhythm. Cereals were first cultivated during the Neolithic time as we are aware. Now wheat, which was known as pyros and barley, which is known as krithia, were the two most prevalent cultivars. The Greeks grouped them together under the umbrella term citos, which is more accurately rendered as cereals or grain than wheat. The wheat, which is known as wheat, was the most prevalent in the wheat. Soft wheat, the equivalent of our finest wheat, did existed. But hard wheat was far more prevalent. Wheat required better soil and higher humidity than barley, whose deeper roots allowed it to mature more quickly and produce superior crops. The most prevalent cultivar corresponds to modern winter barley. After the grain harvest, which means from April through June, the land was typically left fallow for more than a year. When the spring grain subsided, the field was prepared by early ploughing. A pullough or a hoo pushed into the soil, ripping up and burying weeds and stub up, which functioned as a green fertilizer. During the summer, further ploughing was done with a similar objective and to enrich the soil. After a preliminary ploughing that created furrows and a second ploughing that coated the seeds with soil, the first autumn rainers heralded the sowing of seeds. The harrow did not show up until much later. The winter rainers encouraged germination and the weeds were removed then. Barley was harvested in April and May, at least in the warmer parts, and wheat in May and June at the onset of the dry season. After the harvest, the grain was threshed, vineyarded and stored. In addition to barley and wheat, two millet kinds were regularly farmed. Millet was sown in the spring and harvested in the summer. Numerous attempts have been made to estimate the yield of cereal production in Attica based on the limited data available. But these hypotheses are weak and conflicting, therefore they cannot be taken in totality. Wine cultivation, which was later adopted, dates back to the Bronze Age. The wine could adapt to dry, stony soils, but it needs a lot of effort and attention. In September and October, the grape harvest began to make a dry, liqueured wine. He saw it. His work, you know, works and days suggest that exposing grape bunches to the sun for ten days and then keeping them in the shade for another five days. Crushing the grapes, then preparing and storing the wine and goods created from the mark and leaves took months altogether. The task frequently continued far into the winter or even spring when cuttings were tremored and spaced, followed by ploughing and fertilizing the land. Until the archic period, we do not get proper evidences of the growth of the olive trees. Similar to vines, they flourished on thin soil. However, they took around 20 years to reach maturity and yielded fruit only once every two years. Olive trees could not grow in temperatures below 3 degrees centigrade or in powerful summer winds such as Maltami, which blew from the north of the Aegean Sea. September and October were the earliest months for green olive harvesting. The crushing and pressing of olive trees began in November and lasted throughout the winter as did the harvesting of matured olive trees. There was trimming to be done and the soil was to be hoared and fertilized over the winter when there were no other obligations to the farmers. To foster fresh growth, old olive trees were pruned back to the stem. Vegetables and leguminous plants left fewer traces and only lately procured the curiosity of scientists, yet they were more significant than previously supposed. Onions, celery, cabbages, cucumbers, leeks, turnips, fennet, horseradish, peas, beans, broad beans, veg, lentils, garlic and fragrant herbs. Were among them, wild, bay, sage, sabori, mint, thyme, marjoram, rosemary, coriander and basil, etc. They grew wild. Green veggies had to be consumed quickly and were likely grown in gardens that could be irrigated. Other plants such as flax, sesame and poppies were grown for their seeds or oil. Some veggies and legumes matured over the cold season. Others like turnips, broad beans, chickpeas, lentils, veg, horseradish, flax, sesame and milk. Sowed after April would matured over the summer. Grass for hay, lupines, laburnum which bore nutritious leaves, alfalfa which seem to have been introduced from Persia in the 5th century BCE and was not commonly produced. Then leguminous plants like veg, cereals including zay was fed to horses. In addition, the majority of farmers like fruit or chairs require time intensive maintenance. Apples, pears, cherries, plums, blackberries, melons, hazelnuts, pisaccio, nuts and chestnuts, etc. matured over the summer. Artisans also farmed or collected flecks, willows, rushes, reeds and several species which were used for dyeing. Many of them were discovered and gathered in their spare time by women and children in forests, scrublands and marshes. The Greeks possessed few methods of soil fertilization. Animal dung was only available when animals were sheltered in stables or pastured on fallow land. In place of such manure, quick lime, salt petri or leather scraps may be utilized. Farmers burned weeds and buried straw and grasses more frequently to serve as green fertilizers. The plants that grew on land were left fallow and shrubbers found on stony wastelands were used to create a type of compost. In order to avoid depleting the soil used for cultivation, the land was traditionally kept fallow every two years, allowing the soil to rest for 16 months. Such areas might also be seeded with fodder plants, which would then be ploughed into the soil as green fertilizer. Less frequently, leguminous plants or summer fodder plant seeds were sown on the ground and set aside for cultivation that was out of the way. In addition, if the spaces between rows of grapevines or olive trees were large enough, gardeners planted cereals or legumes there in the gaps. Thus, agricultural practices varied very greatly throughout the ancient period. Now coming to the pastoral agriculture. In addition to growing crops, we have information from different historical sources that the Greeks also practised pastoral agriculture. In his economics, Xenophon states that stock raising is linked to agriculture. The expression he uses is probatutlai technique, which mainly means raising sheep and goats. Numerous texts and epigraphical sources mention not only those two species but also pigs, poultry, chickeners and geese, cows, oxen, dunkeys and mules. The last three being draft animals or beasts or burden, in addition to horses, which were luxury mounts and horses used for hunting and warfare. The domestication of such creatures is as ancient as the agriculture in ancient Greece. Smaller animals, better adapted by inclusive diets to the Mediterranean vegetation, were far more numerous than the larger ones as they are today. It is not easy to estimate the importance of stock raising in comparison to agriculture or to see exactly how the two were linked. Alongside the indispensable beasts of badden and drought animals, most farmers probably also raised at least some poultry and smaller animals, which were pastured on stony wastelands in the woods or sometimes on land which was left fallow. In many cases, this kind of stock raising simply served to supplement the farmers' produce. In others, where it was substantial and included cattle, there may have been veritable agro-pastoral farming. In the absence of informative sources, studies on the extent of combined farming remain at variance. Flocks inevitably posed the problem of how to feed them and how to grab the land for pasture and cultivation. However, with some exceptions, stock raising was always the less important activity. In certain regions, large herds of sheep and goats, cattle and occasionally horses are attested. Often herds of sheep and goats, which were more mobile and more adaptable, would be moved over relatively short distances between the mountainous, where they spent the summer and the plains where they remained for the winter season. Alternatively, they might spend a few months on a small deserted island also. Such transhumans is attested in particular by public conventions and agreements relating to the passage of flocks through neighbouring cities or their temporary presence there, sometimes in return for text payment. Inescriptions in Delphi and Delos, for example, show further that certain sanctuaries used their lands to raise animals. These are sometimes described as hera probata. At least some of them, like pigs, cattle, sheep, were probably destined for sacrifices. But such evidences are very rare. Of course, stock raising also provided supplies of milk, eggs, hides and wool. Sheep shearing took place in the Supreme. And these commodities, after processing, produced cheese, leather, textiles and even clothing. Both written sources and archaeological evidences reveal the existence of stablers and sheep folders, which presupposes the cultivation of fodder plants. But since the climate made outdoor pasturage possible for much of the year and many stablers were used to house ploughing oxen, it is thus hard to calculate how many stablers there were actually. The number certainly varied from one region to another region and also depended on such other factors as the need to protect crops and trees from the voracity of goats and the availability of grazing ground, which diminished as cultivated areas expanded. Now we will be moving to another subheading which is the cultivation of the soil and we will be talking about different types of property and exploitation methods. During the Archaic period, some of the land in mainland Greece and the area around the Aegean was gradually given to all or at least most of the people who lived there. In principle, there was a clear link between owning land and being a citizen. Even though some communities with less rights, like the Periochoi of Sparta, kept their own land, in some cities, owning land was even a requirement for being a citizen. Each person's carerous or piece of land was seen as a gift that could not be sold or given away ever. It was passed down from father to son. Under the laws of Lycurgus, Sparta was one of these cities in the 5th century BCE. Here everyone owned a piece of land that was about the same size as that of his neighbours. Most of the other cities also passed laws about inheritance, adoption and the sale of plots of land, but they were a bit strict. Plato and Aristotle both thought that one of the most important parts of an ideal city was a strict division of land among all the people who lived there, which should be carried on from one generation to the next. The concept of the citizen landowner, whether of modest or average means, remained a source of inspiration for generations and was realised in a number of situations. This kind of autogus, who worked on the land himself, could be found in almost every time, both in old cities where the land had already been divided, and in the colonies or new cities where the land was divided equally. Nevertheless, few larger properties managed to survive. Some estimates say that in the 5th century, each of Attic's large estates was no bigger than 26 or 27 hectares and had 4 or 5 full-time workers. This may not seem like much to us now, but it would have been worth a lot of money back then. It is however certain that, because of the problems of the time and changing social normals, large estates started up again after the 4th century, which went against the old idea that inheritances could not be sold. Attica wasn't as bad off as some other places in this way. At this time, it had a number of properties that were several dozen hectares, and some estimators say that one-third or one-quarter of its farmland may have belonged to no more than 2,000 people, which is less than one-tenth of the city's population. But this trend was even cleared in other places, especially in the Peloponneses. From the 2nd century BCE onwards, it spread everywhere, because at that time, most states were ruled by oligarchs, whose wealth was mostly made up of the real estate. Rich landowners like these clearly gave stewards, who were often slaves, the job of running their estates. They also probably hired both free peasants and slaves to work on their land and livestock. In addition, there was a separate agricultural system in place. Additionally, to the mainland and the islands, it was practised in the new towns established in Greece during the archaic and Hellenistic periods. Indigenous people who lived in communities some distance from metropolitan areas, farmed the land in this area. These settlements, which were collectively dependent on the cities, paid the landowners dues or tribute, typically a portion of their harvest. Sparta and Crete are the most well-known instances in which dependents' pavements were utilised to provide common meals for the population. Some of these sites were likely hundreds of hectares in size. In Sparta, the typical size of a Keleros in the 5th century was between 10 and 18 hectares, or twice or three times even the size of the Athenian Keleros of the same period. In the following century, the situation in Sparta was even worse than in Athens as a result of the wide-superded acquisition of additional territory. Additionally, there were public and sacred estates. Literary and most importantly, epigraphical sources cite numerous instances of this. Athens, Athens, Athens, Thespae and the islands including Delos, Rena, Mykonos, Thessos, Ceos, Chios, Amorgos as well as other states in Carrier and Lucanian Heraclea. Every city, regardless of size, seems to contain at least a couple of these states. With this, we have come to the end of the lecture. I hope the details given in the lecture are up to mark to the topic which we were discussing in today's session. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. Thank you.