Major Crops | Types of Crops |  Social Science - Geography Class 8
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nF4IOcQaD-U
Education
 Major Crops There are three types of crops. Food crops, fibre crops and beverage crops. Major food crops are rice, wheat, maize and millets. Fibre crops are cotton and jute. Important beverage crops are tea and coffee. Rice Rice is the staple food of about 50% of world's people. Rice needs high temperature, high humidity and rainfall. Water is kept standing stationary in rice fields. It grows best in alluvial clayey soil which can retain water. Wheat Wheat requires moderate temperature and rainfall during growing season and bright sunshine at the time of harvest. It thrives best in well-drained loamy soil. Wheat is grown extensively in USA, Canada, Argentina, Russia, Ukraine, Australia and India. Maize It is known as corn in the American continent. Maize requires moderate temperature, rainfall and lots of sunshine. It needs well-drained fertile soils. Maize is grown in North America, Canada, Brazil, Mexico, Russia, China and India. Millets Four crops, jowar, bhajra, ragi and sorghum are as a group known as millets. Millets need high to moderate temperature and adequate rainfall. They can be grown on less fertile and sandy soils. Major millets producing countries are India, Nigeria, Niger and China. Cotton Cotton grows best on black and alluvial soils. It requires high temperature, light rainfall, 210 frost-free days in a year and bright sunshine. China, USA, India, Pakistan, Brazil and Egypt are the leading producers of cotton. Jute Jute plant gives long, soft, shiny fibre resistant to stretching. It grows well in alluvial soils of delta regions. It requires high temperature, heavy rainfall and humid climate. India and Bangladesh are the leading producers of jute. Tea Tea requires cool climate and well-distributed high rainfall throughout the year. It needs well-drained, especially on gentle hill slopes, loamy soils. Kenya, India, China, Sri Lanka produce the best quality tea in the world. Coffee Coffee requires warm and wet climate and well-drained hill slopes, loamy soil. Brazil is the leading producer followed by Colombia and India. The stimulating, exciting element of coffee is caffeine. gelir tailor to gdzieizens worship worship pessoal〝 women to