Benefits of Construction Equipment Leasing  | John Deere Financial
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NF7ShZt0KI4
Autos & Vehicles
 Looking for a way to lower your monthly equipment costs? Or do you want to get the latest and greatest equipment technology for less? Or maybe you have a specialized job that requires a specific machine for a limited time. If any of these situations apply to you, you should consider leasing your next piece of equipment. Leasing is a low-cost, low-risk alternative to buying equipment outright or financing it with an installment loan. Here's why. Leases help you free up cash. They generally require less money up front so you can hang on to capital for other business needs. You'll usually have smaller monthly payments and minimal maintenance costs, helping you keep a clear budget. Leasing also allows you to reap the benefits of new technology without making a commitment to purchase. You just pay for the use of the equipment, and then return it when the lease matures. This gives you the flexibility to acquire certain machines for specific projects. Plus, if you decide to keep your leased equipment longer, you always have the option to purchase at lease end for a reduced sale price. Since you always have newer equipment and technology, you'll also have reduced downtime and fewer repairs. Leasing also eliminates hassle of disposing of used equipment. At lease end, you can return your equipment, purchase the equipment, renew the lease, or trade for new equipment. When you lease, you can also improve your bonding capacity. Since leased equipment doesn't appear on your balance sheet as either an asset or a liability, leasing may strengthen your financial ratios. Lower taxes is another benefit of leasing. Most states only require sales tax on the monthly lease payment, rather than the full purchase price of the equipment. If you buy off the equipment at the end of the lease, you would have deferred the sales tax until the end of your term. Every business is unique, and depending on your setup, the benefits of leasing can be just what you need to grow your operation. Contact your John Deere dealer to see if leasing is the best financial tool for you. Thank you.