how much hay will my Dexter eat and how to feed it efficiently
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NhIZSQqPtfQ
People & Blogs
 Hi, I'm Pete and welcome to Just a Few Acres Farm. Here it is mid-January, cold, snowy and windy and it's the height of hay feeding season. Today we're going to talk about how much hay we feed our dextrers and how much hay you can expect to feed your dextrers. Let me preface this by saying there are a lot of variables to hay feeding. The quality of the hay, the age of the animal, whether you're raising dextrers for milk or for beef, that's a lot of variables. I'm very conscientious about getting the maximum feed value out of our hay and that falls into three main areas. The first area is making the hay correctly, making sure it's cut at the right time and making sure it doesn't get rained on before it's baled. Number two is storing the hay properly, keeping it out of the weather to reduce wastage. Number three is feeding the hay properly, feeding it inside, again, to reduce wastage. We're talking dry hay here and not baleage. We don't have the equipment to make baleage. And we're also trying to get the maximum yield out of our land so that we can grow the most cattle per acre possible. Please subscribe to our channel for lots more informative videos about dextr cattle and small farm life. Now, let's get into some specifics. One of the most important factors to feeding quality hay is how you store it. We store string wrapped round bales inside. I see them stored outside a lot, but when you do the math, the losses are amazing. A string wrapped round bale stored outside can lose up to 20% of its nutrient value in the first nine months of being out in the weather. And up to 50% of its nutrient value being left out for 18 months in the weather. So you're losing a lot of hay if you leave it outside. Obviously, net wrapping them or wrapping in plastic will reduce these losses, but they're still losses. The size of the bale matters more than you would think. A five-foot diameter bale has 36% more hay in it than a four-foot diameter bale. I would have never guessed that until I did the math. So much of a bale's hay is in its outer perimeter. Say I store this bale outside and only four inches of it gets ruined all the way around. That's 17% of the bale. That's a huge loss. How you feed your hay is an important consideration to how much will be wasted. If you put your hay in a bale ring outside as is commonly done, you can expect to lose up to 20% due to it getting rained on, snowed on, and the cows pulling it out and trampling it. If you unroll bales in the pasture and have the cows eat off the ground, they will walk on it, they will put manure on it, and they will put urine on it. And you can expect to lose up to 50% of that hay. I'd rather run hay through a cow before it feeds the soil than putting that hay directly on the ground, having the cow trample it, and saying the hay feeds the soil. It's more efficient. Now that we've talked about storing and feeding hay for minimum waste, let's talk about how much hay per day a dexter will eat. Let's go through the math first using our herd, and then we can give you the tools to do it for your herd. We have 28 dextrers right now. We have 14 brood cows, 2 bulls, 3 yearling steers, and 9 calves that were born in 2019. Their rough total weight is 17,200 pounds. We're feeding two 5 foot by 5 foot round bales every 5 days right now. Now our round bales are packed pretty tight, and I think they weigh between 12 and 1500 pounds. The entire herd of cows is eating about 600 pounds of hay per day, or 3.5% of their total body weight. Hay consumption will go up and go down based on temperature and whether the animal is still growing, whether it's pregnant, whether it's being milked. So 3.5% is about as high as we see it get. I can use this information on daily consumption to come up with our annual hay budget. How much hay will our dextrers eat per year? We graze from mid to late April through early November. That means we feed hay for about 5 months out of the year, or 150 days. If we figure we need to feed about 3% of body weight per day, that comes out to 78,000 pounds for the season, or about 40 tons. This equals about 75 foot by 5 foot round bales at 1,200 pounds each. The losses from storing and feeding hay outside can be staggering. Say I didn't store my hay inside, instead I stored it outside, I would have to add 20% to the amount of hay that I needed for winter. So instead of 70 bales, I would need 85 bales. And what if I decided to store my hay outside and feed it by unrolling it on the ground where the cows trample on it and soil it? Well I would need 70% more hay. So instead of the original 70 bales, I would now need 120 bales per year due to wastage. How much hay will your dextrers eat? Well, a really simple rule of thumb that's easy to remember is 3% of body weight. The average mature dextrers cow weighs 800 pounds, give or take. So you're talking about 25 pounds of hay per day to feed that average animal. The first thing to figure out when you're calculating annual hay consumption is what kind of bales am I going to be feeding? If you're feeding small squares, they're about 50 pounds each, but they can vary widely between 25 pounds and 70 pounds. If you're feeding 4x4 round bales, which are the industry standard right now, we're kind of the outlier feeding because we have an old baler that makes big bales. But anyway, a 4x4 bale will weigh about 750 pounds. And again, this can vary widely. Once you know what kind of bale you'll be making and feeding or buying and feeding, then you can do the calculations just as I did. Let's do a small herd example. Two cows and two calves nursing on them. The cows weigh about 800 pounds. The calves say they were born 8-9 months ago. They weigh about 300 pounds as ours do right now. Figure out your total weight. Two cows, two calves is 2,200 pounds. Multiply that by 3% to get the hay intake per day. So 2,200 times 3% is 66 pounds of hay per day to feed those four animals. Figure out how many days per year you need to feed hay. Say 150 days as we do. Times 66 pounds per day, you need 9,900 pounds of hay total. Now you can do the division. If you're feeding small squares, that would be 200 small square bales per year at 50 pounds per bale. Or 14 4x4 round bales per year. And this is all assuming that you feed and store your hay inside. If you're doing either outside, then you need to inflate for the losses you can expect. Feeding hay is all about getting the details right. Making it, storing it, and making it. I've covered the last two here. I'll cover the making of hay when we get into July and August during prime haymaking season. If you have any questions about your particular situation, feel free to ask it in the comments section below. I hope you have a great day. I hope you've enjoyed this video. And I'll see you next time. Thank you.