Spring Planter Tips and Planting Considerations
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NicweYnR8Ik
People & Blogs
 Hi folks, Ron Joyner, Field Agronomist with Pioneer here in Central Texas. As you can see behind me, it's planting time. I'm going to go over a few key things you want to watch out for when it's planting time and some of the things that will make you successful. One of the most important things that you want to be careful of is that you move from field to field or start planting, that you're monitoring your planter depth. Just because you set it one time doesn't always mean that it's going to be correct as field conditions change from one field to the next. One of the things I like to use, you can see here, are these handy Pioneer measuring tools. You move the dirt back away from the sides there. Notice there's a seed down in the trench right here. Take one, lay it across, and put the other one there. That's about two and a quarter inches. Great job by this particular griller. So one thing I like to do besides just checking planting depth is look at the number of seeds in a row and what kind of spacing we're getting in more than one spot. So for example, here, you know, we're about 8.7, you know, approximately close to nine there. So 8.7 to nine inches. I also like to keep with me this time of year. If I'm running a planter, I put this in the tractor. He's on 30 inch rows. If you go across and you look at about 8.7 inches between the seeds on 30 inch rows, that's about 24,000, which is a great population for our dry land area. One other key thing to make note of this time of year is what is your soil temperature? What's that temperature doing? I stuck this thermometer in the ground. It's early in the morning right now. And we're at about 60 degrees. We always like to be at a minimum of about 50 with a warming trend occurring. So if you look at the weather forecast and it's calling for isolated showers or cooler weather, you might want to consider delaying planting for a day or two to make sure that you're giving the seed every chance it can to emerge and do the best that it can. So again, make sure your seed spacing is correct. Check your planter depth, not just at the first field you start on, but every time you move fields and occasionally at random times during the planting season. Be sure that your soil temperature is a minimum of 50 degrees for corn and climbing with a warming trend. Watch out for cold weather and showers. Hope you have a happy planting season. Again, Ron from Pioneer. Thanks for your business. That concludes this Pioneer Agronomy video podcast. Visit our page on Pioneer.com and follow us on Twitter and Facebook for more agronomy insights.