"Diversity Intensity Profitability" Dwayne Beck SDSU Dakota Lakes Research Farm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NkEhdnXpCJ4
Science & Technology
 Thanks Marty. I want to thank Ruth for putting this together. She does all the work and I want to thank you for coming. It's always good to talk to real farmers. Last winter if you were here we spent a lot of time talking about water and that's what it's all about is water. If you look at what impact that we've had with with no-till in South Dakota and whatever it's all about water and better utilizing the water and we calculated a couple years ago for the Board of Regents who wanted to know what the hell we did. The Board of Directors of Dakota Lakes got together and we met with the Board of Regents and we calculated the difference in crop production in 1987 versus 2014. This was in 2015. If we took the center, the South Center and the North Central crop reporting districts in South Dakota, basically that middle third of the state of South Dakota in the middle there, we changed, the farmers changed there, we used the Woolsey price the night before, Woolsey South Dakota price. We changed the amount of grain that they sold by 1.6 billion dollars. Those are big numbers unless you're in Washington but that's big numbers in South Dakota. That's a big increase and it's the thing that I noticed from when we first started doing this in 1990 till now. Cities like Gettysburg that at one time years ago in the 60s or whenever when there's lots of babies had two two classes in every grade in in the elementary school and then they went to one class in every grade and then all of a sudden they're almost talking about closing the school they're going back to two classes in every grade again and I think that's a good news and I think part of that is how we produce things and I'm going to kind of follow up a little bit with what Cody is doing and then I want to talk about just some real basics. A lot of talk about soil health and muffin fluff and whatever but they're just some real basics to how you do how you do no-till and it's and it's just real simple stuff so we're going to talk about a little bit of that and then you can go home get ready for the blizzard. That's the Dakota Lakes right you know that's our our main station then we have some soils to the north and if you're not familiar actually that main station the north those north two quarters right in here those are what we call Millboro soils which would be very similar to what you see around Kennebec and that area for you guys further east they're a bit just a little bit better than the pier soils and stuff you see out here in some places and then the south side are some pretty good less soils our north unit has the old triple threat with promise opal and sand sarks so those are ones that you're familiar with some of you guys here have nun soils which are really quite good soils actually and then quite a few forms and farms and pierce pier soils or something like that. I have a little trivia question for you there's a soil call all our soils are named after cities and whatever localities right so the sand sark is a really shallow soil it's about a foot and a half deep over fractured shale and it's a foot and a half of that real clay stuff the true vertisol just really shallow what's that named after well the sand sark sioux right sand sark sioux tribe there's a little city of sand sark there right across the river from guess Gettysburg but where does that name come from it's French anybody here speak French well in French sans means without arc means archery or bow and arrow so when the first fur traders first came to that area across the river from Gettysburg the tribe they ran into there was not using bows and arrows they were still using lances so that's where that name comes from it's kind of interesting I always like to joke with my Native American friends from that I said that those guys were the conventional tillers of the Indian Society the last the last Native Americans to adopt a new technology right we still have people doing conventional tillage here you shouldn't be doing tillage here water is too precious to you did a meeting yesterday in Columbus Nebraska get 28 inches of rain a year yeah maybe they can grow crops without saving water there and then they got irrigated they got irrigators sitting on fields there where they get 28 inches of water a year in rainfall what a bunch of pessimists right okay this is what our native vegetation looks like we're going to go to Australia we're not going to go to Australia in about a month and they have trees everywhere and they have less rainfall that we have because the rainfall comes in the winter time when it's cool and it goes deep past because you're not using any water and it all just moves deep and then you've got trees okay so that the only place we see trees is where there's a major drainage way so the first time I went to Australia I showed this slide somebody in the audience went I said yes ma'am she's where'd the trees go I said Paul Bunyan cut them down they had no idea who Paul Bunyan was see so you don't do that that was a dumb thing to do so Ruth and I went to France four years ago and and we did a kind of it we were in England first that was fun and then we went to France and they they got us a car that had GPS that would speak English and we would do a meeting I do a meeting from 8 till noon and then we'd hop in the car and turn on GPS and go to the next town and somebody meet us for supper and show us around that town and we do another meeting the next day and whatever it was kind of an interesting trip but every town we went to they had to show us their castle so we went and looked at the castle and you got the grain bins and again they all kind of look pretty impressive and took a lot of energy to build them and a lot of work and a lot of wealth and whatever and you you know you go in and now you got the grain bins there where did where'd you produce the grain that went in the grain bins they said well in the land right around the castle so you look over the wall and it was so degraded it wouldn't even grow bushes very well and you'd point that out that maybe that was one of the reasons it's no longer a castle and when we looked at their soils this is what they look like and this is what they look like and they're still plowing them and they're plowing them deeper and they're plowing up and down the hills and their places are plowing down the hills because they can't plow across the hills and they can't plow up the hills they can't pull it so they drive up and plow down and so I started the discussion by saying my ancestors left Europe to come to the United States because they degraded the soil so badly that they had in Europe that they had to go someplace else and find soils that weren't degraded and then I said they've done a good job of degrading the soils that they find in the US okay this area is part of the Louisiana Purchase the Louisiana Purchase happened because there were the La Viandre brothers came from Winnipeg Manitoba they were fur traders and they came across the Continental Divide in eastern North Dakota if you didn't know there is one there is one there between the Red River drainage and the Missouri River drainage right there between Valley City and and Jamestown there's a Continental Divide it's about this high okay and and they came across that Continental Divide they came down the Missouri River and they buried lead plates in different areas of around here we don't know how many they built they buried but one was buried just above Fort Pier and you can see that one in in the the Heritage Museum and it claimed this area for France that was 1743 so the white men have been here quite a while you know pretty pretty actually before the Revolutionary War we had white guys running around out here claiming the area for France you know pretty optimistic guys there too and and and our founding fathers George Washington Thomas Jefferson and those guys were way back in the early part of our nation the late 70s and 1700s a few years more increased sterility will drive the inhabitants of the Atlantic states westward for support they're degrading the soils and they knew that and they were trying to figure out what to do about it whereas if they were taught how to improve the old instead of going on to in pursuit of the new and productive soils they would make these acres which now scarcely yield them anything turn out beneficial to themselves George Washington he and Thomas Jefferson had lots of conversation about how stupid it was that they continued to degrade the soil that's 300 200 whatever years ago David Montgomery wrote a book dirt if you haven't read it it's kind of interesting reading this photo here was taken in South Dakota in the 1930s because we were doing that when I went to Gettysburg in the 1970s to teach high school chemistry not not ag I was teaching chemistry people don't understand that you couldn't be assured that you would make it to pier and back if you left Gettysburg to go to pier in the winter time you wouldn't be assured you were going to get home if the wind started to blow because everybody was doing wheat and summer fowl in that country okay and so one time about four years ago I met David Montgomery talking about his dirt book at a meeting and I said you know in the teacher's lounge I mean the speakers lounge that you have at these bigger conferences I sat down with him and I said you know you really should come and revisit I sat down with him and I said, you know, you really should come and revisit that area north of Pierre again and see what's happened there because it's changed. And he subsequently wrote this book, Growing a Revolution, which has a chapter about some of the guys in that area. In fact, Mike Arnold is in that book. They talk about his operation. But anyway, Thomas Jefferson realized that they had to do something. So in 1803, he bought the Louisiana Purchase and then he sent Lewis and Clark up the river. Right here's where the Code Lakes is, by the way, right in there. But they came through here. So we know what this land looked like before we got here and started screwing it up. But what they were looking for were beavers. It was the first thing. That's what the Laviandres were looking for, it's beavers. And they took all the beavers out. Well, what were the beavers doing here? All these dams and all these little tributaries all the way from Black Hills, down the river, through Missouri, whatever. So you take all the beavers out. Then you send the settlers in and the settlers start to do tillage. They cut down what few trees there are and they start overgrazing. And we have flooding. Now, what should the response be? Put the beavers back and quit doing that stuff you're doing. Right? No, we're not that smart. So we're going to put in large main stem reservoirs. We're European males. Right? That's what we do. We go put in large main stem reservoirs. We've got four in South Dakota. They're going to give us 500,000 acres of irrigation over around Redfield because that was flat. In the 1930s and 40s, you can't irrigate land that's rolly. You have to have this stuff that you can run the water down between the rows. And we all know that you couldn't produce corn and soybeans at Redfield without irrigation, for God's sake. And it's kind of like Nebraska. They don't think they can produce anything without irrigation. Ray, did you notice that? No, I didn't. So they built a big dam and they built a big power plant and they built an irrigation pump station that's never been used. And they built a whole bunch of canals. So I show people the canals when they come to visit if they're going the right direction. We show them these huge, huge canals that were built to take the water from the Missouri River over to the Jim River. But when I went to Redfield in 1983, and by the way, Ray managed the same farm I managed, the one at Redfield, one time in its existence. We both had the same major professor and our PhDs. We have a lot of parallels. But when I went to Redfield in 1983, there was 1,900 acres of soybeans in Spink and Brown County combined. And I made the mistake on my PhD orals to say that I thought if we no-tilled, we could probably grow corn and soybeans in the Jim River Valley without irrigation. And Larry Fine, who Ray remembers, nobody else does, but he thought I didn't understand water very well. So he really made my life miserable for an hour or so in my orals. But he lived long enough to see no-till and different crop production move into the Jim River Valley, which now those two counties are the number one and number two corn-producing counties in the state. And I was told before we came to Pierre that we would never produce 100-bushel dryland corn in Hughes County. I was told that, George. And I made a bet on it. So we won that bet several years in a row before the guy decided he didn't want to do that anymore. But it just talks to the idea of we haven't, in the old days, we didn't use water well. The thing that we have done, no-till is just a tool. The thing we're doing is using water better. That's really what we're about. So in 1973, we had a whole bunch of guys got all excited about the Russian wheat deal. Energy prices were low in 1973. Interest rates were low in 1973. Everybody started putting in irrigators along the Missouri River because somebody had invented a center pivot. We didn't need to have a level ground to irrigate anymore. So these guys started pumping water out of the Missouri River and irrigating, and it ran promptly back down the hill into the river. Because our soils were these wind-blowing lust soils. And when they got tilled, which everybody said to grow irrigated corn, you've got to have it black, and then we put water on it, it just looked like this floor. And that's kind of when I entered the scene to try to figure out how to stop runoff under irrigators. And that's where those efforts led to a meeting after a field day one night at Bob's Steakhouse where people said, we really need to have more research effort along the center and the western part of the state. And another guy said, well, I'll get my brother-in-law who's in the legislature to get you some land. And I said, why don't you leave your brother-in-law alone? Let's see if we can't get our own land instead of having the state own it so we can control it. So that's the way this started. It's owned and directed by farmers, all fixed facilities and land, and much of the irrigation equipment is owned by the corporation and things like that, right? Again, the comparison of corn, soybean, spring wheat, winter wheat, and sunflower production in those three areas increased by 1.6 billion in 2014 as compared to 1986. We didn't do that because we set out to improve yields. The goal was to better manage our water because that's what we were having trouble with. We weren't getting the water in the ground. Better manage our nutrients. And this is what this whole movement's about, whether you call it soil health or you call it no-till or whatever you call it. It's about better managing the ecosystem. We have to do a better job or we're going to end up looking like the Europeans with a totally degraded soil. We've only been at this for 200 years. So what we did is starting to look at how the native systems work because water goes in the ground, the native systems. And you don't have the salty spots in native systems normally. And we call this a transformational change. or a holistic approach. I stole this from Jay Führer who said he stole it from somebody else. But it's one of my favorite statements. The light bulb did not result by incrementally making candles better. You know, when you think about that, it just kind of goes, oh, okay, yeah, that makes sense. You know, backing off. And so what we've been doing a lot of times in agriculture, we're just incrementally changing what is really a system that's been broken since it was in Europe instead of just saying, no, this is stupid. Let's do something else. Farmer manages ecosystems, takes sunlight, water, and carbon dioxide and makes them into products to be sold. And we look at this water cycle, energy flow, mineral cycle, community dynamics, and there's lots of places where we have talked about how we do that. Does the rain feed plants and recharge groundwater or do you run off or deep percolate? If you're running your water off and you live at wall, that's a problem. You don't want to do that. Okay? Then, that's what's wrong here. We can now put on two inches of water in nine minutes with our irrigators and we have nothing run off. And if you come in the summertime and many of you have been there, we walk in behind those irrigators and it totally changes your way of looking at things. And it's because we have this armor. We don't have the armor there because we think that's cute. It's there because it protects the soil, keeps the weeds from going, keeps the soil cool, does all these things. People say, I really like to use that big hole opener. Makes that wheat grow better. Well, now you have no more armor. Okay? You've got to have that armor and that whole process starts it. There's where our earthworms live. They're protected. For anybody that's been around irrigation, this is 20 years of wheel track. If you've been around irrigation, those things always had big ruts in them. And when we first started doing this, we had our board of directors from Dakota Lakes, the guys that we're irrigating, we're irrigating with tillage, come to Redfield one day and we had a lateral move there running on some no-till ground. And we went out to look at crops and I'm walking along, I'm talking, turn around, I have no farmers behind me. They're all lined up on one of my wheel tracks going, why isn't that deeper? And I hadn't really ever thought about that. You know, they didn't set out to make shallow wheel tracks. And they noticed it because theirs weren't that way. Take the E out of ET, evapotranspiration, ET. Evaporation makes you no money. When you make the water go through a plant, it makes you money. When you make it, let it just float off the surface, it doesn't make you any money. So one of the ideas behind this forage cover croppy thing is to try to take something that would have to evaporate to make it dry enough for you to plant or whatever and make it go through a plant. And yesterday in Nebraska, we had two young farmers that were on a panel and they're both talking about, well, you know, one of the things I really like now that I no-till and got cover crops and whatever, I can drive in that field anytime I want to. And I don't sink in. I don't make ruts and all that kind of stuff. Doesn't happen year one, but they've noticed now that that is starting to happen. Make water enter the soil and then maximize water holding capacity by building the organic matter. We've talked about those things today. This is a good idea for irrigation. It's a great idea for those without irrigation like you guys. So most of our impact has actually been on the non-irrigation part of the country. Most of the guys that were irrigating in 1976 have quit because their lifts are too high and they grow. They make more money per dollar invested by far on their dry land than they would on irrigation. Irrigation is expensive and it costs you a lot of money every day and it's high management and it gets obsolete and it has issues. There's places where irrigation makes sense, but you shouldn't be competing with, you know, until you've used every drop of water that Mother Nature gives you as efficiently as you can, you shouldn't even think about irrigation. Ecosystems harvest sunlight and drive all other processes. Sunlight energy, that's stored in the residue. Removing these products from the ecosystem reduces the energy available. So if you're taking off all your residue, which they are in a lot of places, there's nothing to drive that soil biology. Everybody keeps talking about the soil biology. Well, the soil biology, you've got to feed them and they eat residue. I had a guy from Iowa call me the other day and they're going to harvest his corn and they're going to take all his dairy. You've got an agreement with the dairy. He's going to harvest his corn and then they're going to take, cut off and rake up and bale all his corn stocks. And he said, I want to continue to no-till my soybeans. How do I do that? I'm going, we've got a lot more things to discuss than just how you're going to no-till your soybean. That's one of the reasons we're doing the thing with livestock. It has to do with the residue and cycling the residue. So there's one of our cover crops, that mixture of barley oats and peas and whatever. And we swath that. And you've seen these photos. There's winter wheat growing back in there. So we've got the living root. It was in winter wheat during the summer. But we also have winter wheat growing back there. And it'll be there next spring and then we'll kill it before we plant. The corn in this case. And that thing stays nice and green in there. One of the things that, I don't know if Cody mentioned it, but the stuff we baled this year, those swaths we baled to make the comparison. So we have the residue removed stuff. That swath was pretty wet when we baled it, but it was a wet fall. And so we've had to feed those bales because they were going bad. Whereas the swath is fine. Did you find any really bad stuff in that swath here today? Not much. No? Okay. Went in really wet because of the wet fall. Swath it when it's pretty wet. It's fine. So there's our mamas and their babies eating their swaths. But the question always comes up, does the swath get spread out? If you move that thing a little bit every day, they clean it right up. But you can see the armor still in there. That swath reach stubble still. And they leave that alone. It lays down and everybody's happy. Okay? More cows, more goats, more sheep. Number one meat eaten in the world is goat. Okay? And they're good at getting rid of Canada thistle. So we might want to get excited about this. But there's no way to feed the people in the world in the future if we're going to take meat away. The only way to take marginal land and turn it into human edible protein, produce human edible protein on it, upgrade the protein, is to use ruminant animals. And anybody that tries to tell you that we're going to have fake meat and all this stuff, they can't make fake meat on marginal land. Okay? So if you're going to feed people, we're going to have to use animals, which is fine. That's what we should be doing anyway. 100% grass-fed ground beef. Certified. USDA. Where was this produced? Well, we get some cows from Montana that have never seen grain, doesn't know what grain looks like. Some coal cows. You haul them to a place in central or eastern South Dakota and you put them on cover crops. And you fatten them on cover crops, you take them in Omaha and you make them into hamburger. Okay? So this is actually being done. Okay. I don't know why I'm having trouble with that. I'm probably doing something goofy. All tillage tools destroy soil structure. All tillage tools decrease water infiltration. All tillage tools reduce organic matter and all tillage tools increase weeds. 27,000 gallons of water with 1% organic matter and 6 inches of soil. That's a fourth of an inch of water. If we can increase organic matter by 4%, we put an extra inch in the top 6 inches and extra 2 inches in the top foot. Grandpa had more organic matter than you do. He came here because it had high organic matter. He mined it. That's fine. Now you have to quit doing that. What about pests? Well, let's talk about aphids. Given the high rate of reproduction by aphids, shouldn't levels continue to increase all summer? Aphids are pregnant females that give birth to pregnant females. See, all the guys in the audience should be afraid because you could be out of business if you're in the aphid world. If your next reincarnation you're born as an aphid, you're really in trouble. So pregnant females that give birth to pregnant females, you should grow high populations, but we don't because aphid population dynamics depend on levels of natural enemies, temperature, and that kind of thing. Seven spotted lady beetle females ate on average 115 soybean aphids in 24 hours. The male eats 78. The instars, the little things that look like dragons, ate 105. The other kind eats 95. The male's 54, not quite as hungry. Right? So when you go to check how many aphids you got in your wheat or how many aphids you got in your soybeans, you also count to ladybugs. We had a wheat walk at the farm a few years ago and the entomologist was saying, oh, well, he's way above thresholds. And I smiled and whatever and we went home that night and Ruth says, you're not going to spray, are you? And I said, well, I'm going to go look at him Monday because I have lots of ladybirds in there and the temperature was going to get hot. Monday or Tuesday, they're all gone. Okay? So, no one knows the number one thing that kills aphids is fungi. 84% soybean aphids got whacked by this one fungi. So if we know the number one thing that kills aphids is fungi, number two are these predators and somebody tells you we're going to come out and spray some herbicide and why don't we just throw a little fungicide and a little insecticide in that and it just doesn't cost very much and it can't do any harm. See? You're going to kill all your predators. Seven species of aphid, found seven species of aphid pathogenic fungi were found in them in 2003 and 2004. Overuse of fungicide can cause insect outbreaks. If we use too many fungicides, you kill the predatory fungi. So we had this cover crop a few years ago. My neighbor come over and we were, you know, it was one pollinator type thing. It was a mustard and it was all flower and just full of bugs. He says, aren't you going to spray this? I said, why would I spray this? He said, well, there's bugs in here. Most bugs are good bugs. Some of these weren't good bugs but I didn't want to harvest this crop anyway. I said, I'm feeding my predators. If I'm going to have predators around next year when the bad bugs show up, I got to feed them something to keep them around and let them have babies and stuff so they're ready, right? Overreliance on herbicides leads to resistant weeds and maybe disease problems. Everybody talks about these resistant weeds. One of the problems we have is we have too many bacterial diseases now because we use surfactants too frequently. Things like bacteria leaf spot and whatever. What bacteria do is they penetrate into leaf. If you put a surfactant on and weaken the wax, you're going to get more disease. Fungicides, herbicides and insecticides have collateral damage. They're a disturbance to the system. Ray mentioned chloride. When we get a chloride, we always put a little chloride on with our wheat because chloride helps the wheat protect itself from disease. So we don't have to put the fungicide on. So we just put a little bit on there so it has high chloride concentration. High disturbance techniques, hoe drills and such and vertical tillage increase weed pressure and cause soil erosion. And this is tillage erosion where you pull the top of the hills down as they came north from Columbus yesterday up through Norfolk and Indie-Yankton. Came home that way. They have all these big rolling lust hills down there. Blew up out of the Missouri River bottom. And they're still doing tillage on them and the tops of the hills are going down to the bottom. I couldn't believe they were still doing that. Okay? The way we control pests is we use sanitation, rotation and competition. Pesticides are only part of sanitation to keep weeds from going to seed for instance. They're only part of rotation. What I want to do in terms of competition is to keep a weed small enough that my crop can compete with it. Fertilizer placement. Ray doesn't care about fertilizer placement. I do. Because I don't want my weeds to have it. So I'm going to place my fertilizer either in a place or a time when it's not going to benefit the weeds. Something like Palmer amaranth is a huge end feeder. And if you broadcast nitrogen on you're just feeding the weed. So we're going to place a fertilizer three inches from the corn row at the same depth or the sorghum row. I don't care where its roots are. I just don't want the weeds to get to it. So I'm going to put it where the plant, my plant, my beneficial plant can compete with the weeds. Ecosystems that lake nutrients for extended periods of time become deserts. Saline seeps and you have some of them out here is because we aren't using and cycling the water and the nutrient like it should be and nutrient placement is part of cycling. I'm a farmer. I take sunlight, water and carbon dioxide and make products that I can sell. And Ray said to me earlier today in a private conversation what we need to do is be getting to the point where we're selling stuff instead of selling commodities. Selling stuff that we can sell on the internet. You guys all know how to do that. Us old guys don't know how to do that but young guys know how to do that. So we're going to produce something and sell it. and there's people that want to buy stuff that's produced sustainably or regeneratively or whatever. I had a half an hour conversation the other day on a telephone on the way down to Nebraska. I stopped on top of the hill. I had a half an hour conversation to the person in charge of sustainability for Cargill. Okay? And we've got to be able to give them a product that we can defend and say this is done the right way. The best environmental way. The best food safety way. And this is the way we do it. Focus on having the soil wet during the dry part of the year instead of just focusing on having it dry during the wet part of the year so you can be the first guy to get done planting. Right? And you know every year people come and I got a neighbor that works the heck out of his ground and sometimes his corn's bigger than mine the last weekend in June. The last Thursday in June. Most of the time it isn't but sometimes it is and guys will look at that and say well his corn's bigger than yours. And I used to go through a long explanation now I just say oh I didn't know you harvested corn in June. And I turn around and walk away and then kind of the end of that conversation. Focus on having the soil cool during the hot part of the year. Roots don't like it hot. And they don't do a good job taking up nutrients if they're hot. That cover that armor it keeps the soil cool so we can have it cool during that hot part of the year. That's important to irrigation people it's imperative to rain fed farming. Mother nature is an opportunist. If you have a problem weed, disease, insect I don't care you provide the opportunity somewhere in your system. Here's resistant kosher that we developed on purpose in the early 1990s to prove we could. It's resistant to pursuit. Because I said I predicted that was going to happen the company threatened the lawsuit if I didn't retract so I just developed my own. And then that negated that whole lawsuit thing. That's kosher right there that's chickpeas hiding in there just for Mike Arnold that's chickpea Mike. But we didn't have much at that period of time to control anything in chickpeas. We surely couldn't use it. Now the cross-compliant the cross-resistance came because those kosher I went and got from somebody that had been overusing glean. So it's not just a pursuit thing. It's all herbicides that if we don't use them properly. Now what happens there here let's look at how this happens if in the old days you guys used to have a little bit of downy brome here. You don't have it anymore right? It's gone? Scott you don't have any cheatgrass anymore do you? He's just grinning. But that used to be a huge problem because it did a rotation that provided huge opportunities and Randy Anderson made this statement two years of warm season crops or a fallow one year of warm season crop and a fallow reduced the number of seeds by 95%. So if we did wheat, corn, fallow the old eco-fallow thing we could take care of cheatgrass. Same thing happens with warm season weeds like the Palmer Amaranth or waterhemp or something like that. And the reason that works is let's take foxtail it emerges Palmer Amaranth same time after the corn's planted and goes to flower before the corn is harvested so it has its whole life cycle here and it can compete in the early phases. If I put winter wheat in that thing hasn't emerged winter wheat has full canopy and it's harvested before that thing goes to flower and you can control it. Just very simple thing. We had a long term rotation study maybe some of you remember that we had warm and cool season crops everything was done no-till it was in Limon County on some promise soils. We did that for 12 years and in the 13th year Randy Anderson came out what we had to do was plant it all uniformly to a wheat crop which we did and he came out and he counted the number of weeds in the different rotations. Where we did wheat chickpea for 12 years he found 94 weeds where we did wheat corn chickpea he found 40 where we did a more diverse rotation than that he found 7. Claire Simas who a lot of you still remember had a similar type study where he used an anhydrous knife for once every 4 years other than that he was no-tilling and he had a low he had a high diversity sunflower wheat corn spring wheat and he had a low diversity wheat millet rotation and Randy did the same thing with his and what we found was the same trend highest with the low diversity lowest with the high diversity rotation but since I didn't do any disturbance I did better. the real comparison there is tillage and poor rotation 225 weeds per square yard or square meter no-till and good rotation seven weeds 97% weed control just with cultural practices. That has to do with disturbance so if you're thinking well dad's just going to go out and disc a little bit right I mean one of the one of the things I used to tell guys because they'd want to start no-tilling but dad didn't want or the uncle didn't want to get rid of the machinery just in case we might need it I said fine okay just tell them you'll do that but you know to protect the tires and the hydraulic cylinders take the tires off and the hydraulic cylinders off before you park it over in the edge and then they really won't be tempted to start up and go out and screw with it when you go on vacation right so because that used to happen at times kid goes on vacation dad goes disc a bunch of ground just just to make it better he took green fox still placed at three depths in the soil zero two and four inches and he looked at the number of live seeds yearly okay after two years if he left it on the surface only 11% were still alive buried two inches 28% buried four inches 55% if you're doing disturbance you're constantly digging up and burying and making seeds go dormant you can't control the weed seed bank so to prove that even further we took four places at Dakota Lakes I let little areas go to all the weeds grow and go to seed once and then he tilled a small area and left a small area not tilled and then when we put herbicide on these areas we put a tarp over top of them so they never got herbicides on them and he cowed on the seedlings yearly for three years okay first year not much difference when tilled and no tilled second year not much difference it's when you have that two year break that you get the big difference corn, pea, winter wheat, corn if you got a weed that goes to seed and the corn that you really can't control in corn you can get rid of 96% of it if you're just doing every other year you can't so there's a typical thing if we drive a little wide with our winter wheat we don't really get a runaway in terms of weeds so real quickly rotation types simple rotations this is the one most people think about wheat, corn, canola spring wheat, winter wheat, corn, sunflower corn, soybean, wheat, fallow whatever they're simple they're predictable limited number of crops to manage the market this is what a lot of people are doing but they're very predictable to the insects and such rotations with perennial sequences which I think we're going to have to use we're going to have to put those deep roots in that Cody was talking about and we can if we we can do a stupid rotation for about six years and then put in a perennial for three or four or the only thing I don't like about this is I'd rather see grasses in there but there's lots of examples of those limited number of annual crops to manage the market excellent place to spread manure if you're going to spread manure you can probably produce more soil structure than annual crops because of the grass especially with grass mixtures disadvantage you've got a Cody pointed that out today he said we got that new rotation we started we're only putting in a perennial five years out of 20 I'm not sure that's enough okay compound rotations where we take two rotations and make them into simple rotations make them more complex we were talking about one of these at noon spring wheat, winter wheat corn soybean, corn soybean half the corn is behind soybeans and half the corn is behind wheat if you're over in the Jim River Valley that's probably a good good rotation for you because you can grow pretty good corn behind soybeans as you get further west you can't do that you got to have more moisture I call this the mother-in-law banker rotation because the mother-in-law banker comes to visit you in June you show them this corn plant it into soybean looks great if they come in August or September most likely you'll take them out and show them the stuff that was in the wheat stubble still have limited number of crops to manage creates more than one sequence for some crop types if you grow corn behind beans every year you're going to get corn rootworm beetle that fly from the cornfield to soybean fields to lay their eggs that's happened in eastern corn belt if we grow if everybody here grew corn behind wheat we would get corn rootworm that fly to the wheat stubble to lay their eggs so we got to try to be not predictable complex rotations where crops the same crop type varies so we start putting in barley instead of two wheat we got barley or oats we got both sunflower and pea that kind of thing has some advantages very capable of creating a wide array of crop type by sequence combinations sorghum and corn have advantages and disadvantages but they complement each other it takes a lot more crop management skills but this is why we pay you guys the big bucks right? it's not you got to have the management skills it's not because you can drive a tractor straight anymore because I got auto steer so now while the tractor's going across the field you can work on your management uh... stacked rotations is the one that surprised us and that we developed and we didn't really realize the power until later it's where we put the same crop or crop type twice in a row and the idea is to do that to get the long break the secret here is the long break to let that weed population go down right? and so once it's down it takes a couple years for it to come back up again so we do two and then get out of there and we got a four year break before we come back to that crop again okay we keep the pest population diverse or confused uh... diversity in sequence and intervals it's mixed along and sort residual herbicide programs for you guys out here if you're afraid of atrazine because of low rainfall if you stack two warm season grasses corn or sorghum or millet one after the other you can use a high rate of atrazine in the first one that's one of the most powerful things you can do it's cheap atrazine is cheap and you can do that kind of stuff and especially if you're doing grazing things okay two year break between corn and wheat so you don't have to worry about the head scab thing uh... but the goal is to allow sufficient time for press pressure to decline to very low levels before sequencing the crop or crop type two times uh... and we can reduce the rest of developing biotype resistance we've reduced the cost of herbicide programs uh... some crop sequences may not be ideal we really don't stack broadleaves very often but the goal is to be inconsistent in both sequence and interval so look at your rotation say how predictable am I right to you it might look predictable to insects i mean if you're just doing something that allows them to develop uh... some habit in the in the core in the western corn belt for instance corn soybean guys now have uh... corn rootworm beetles where the eggs don't hatch for two years instead of hatching the first year because it's always one year so they figured that one out that's why they've got to use bt and all that stuff where we don't have to here's some rotations utilizing both stacked and and and normal sequences uh... canola winter wheat corn the two corns and then the rest of it's not stacked we got one we use on the farm uh... on the north unit where we do two weights a pea and then we do sorghum corn actually up there and then and then pea i guess that's one here right here winter wheat winter wheat sunflower sorghum corn pea and this one really is a uh... some kind of a of an oil seed might be flax whatever uh... dryland rotations uh... again those that's where those at you'll be able to get these slides too but there's no set recipe or best rotation that everybody needs to pick their own it's going to vary with fields it's going to vary with if your neighbor has resistant kosher and he lets it blow across you it's going to vary with a lot of things and including you know your personal lifestyle when when do you want to have a little vacation time in the summer or whatever show you a few slides uh... there's a uh... rotation in 2006 that wheat didn't look very good 2006 very dry year and right across the road that's what the winter wheat look like what was the difference there and you can see it from an aerial photo uh... the good looking wheat was in this corn pea winter wheat and been in that rotation since 1990 this was 2006 and this one was soybean corn pea winter wheat half broadleafs half low residue we didn't have the armor and look at that wheat okay what's that mean in yields 2006 60 versus 29 bushels 7.9 inches of rain from the time we harvested the peas until we harvested the wheat in 2005 when we got 23 inches 92 versus 57 in 2002 which is the first time this happened 6.4 inches in a year 56 versus 28 in a year 56 i can't afford to do i hear this all the time i can't afford to grow this i can't afford to do this i've got to do the high value things i've got to do the low residue things can make me more money they don't make you more money if you look at this type of response this rotation just doesn't have enough high residue so we've taken the soybeans out Cody mentioned this and now we put we have these this three-way just looks like this three-way same thing other than we have a five-year perennial sequence in there and in 17 or 18 years we're going to have good information and when i explained that to Cody one day he said you better keep riding your bicycle if you're going to be around here to watch that what happens where there is lots of water certainly they don't need to worry about this right so uh uh corn corn soybean wheat soybean uh first year soybeans 76 bushels second year soybeans 81 this is under irrigation uh if i just do corn soybeans i get 62.9 bushel so if i average those two from the other one 78.8 versus 62.9 so the guy doing corn soybeans is getting less soybean yields how about corn yields well continuous corn we've had corn in one field since 1990 it's about 203 bushel the acre average type thing corn soybeans 217 corn corn soybean wheat soybean the two corns average the first one's like to 250 or so the second one's 217 or 220 uh 235 okay so what if i grew 5,000 acres of that i got a million bushels if i got 5,000 acres of corn i got a million bushels of corn and a big ass dryer lots of trucks i mean wow but there's guys that do that and think they make money okay uh corn soybean i got 2500 acres of corn i got 2500 acres of soybean corn corn soybean wheat soybean i got 2000 acres of corn corn 2000 acres of soybeans and 1000 acres of wheat and there's the bushels okay would you trade 7200 bushels of corn for 120,000 bushels of wheat today see that's what the numbers show you and i can't afford to do anything but corn soybean i produce more bushels of soybeans on 2000 acres of soybeans in this rotation than you do on 2500 acres of soybeans in that rotation interesting can't afford to do that with small grain over here can't afford not to first time i went to argentina they was doing seven years of pastures and seven years of cropping and then their cropping was no-till with cover crops and diversity corn wheat beans beans and i had a friend of mine we dug out a little bit of soil and he held it up and if you want to talk about what is a healthy soil that's a healthy soil and then they outlawed the export of beef get rid of the beef thing can export beef keep all the beef for the poor people well guys the poor people can't eat enough beef they can't pay enough for it so the guys started got rid of the beef and started growing soybeans on soybeans i went back in 2006 and it looked like this exactly the same field and went back a year ago this last fall they haven't changed that yet and now they have lakes showing up where they never had lakes they have rivers showing up where there were never rivers because they've got the water cycle broken so badly we can't expect our governments and our companies and whatever to understand the importance of maintaining our soil resource we have to do this ourselves organic matter makes a difference there's our daughters who are much older than that now one of them might come bopping in here pretty soon but this is a prairie plant and and and Cody showed you one of those right compare that to what you get with wheat and whatever and that cycles these nutrients back to the surface of your pH is are dropping your lot you got lime down here but you keep pushing it down go sideways becomes a saline seat bring it back up get it on the surface but you haul that off and take it to a feedlot Cody showed you that too today that nutrient doesn't get back to the fields all tillage tools are story soil structure all tillage tools decrease water infiltration right people I got the vertical tillage thing I got this tillage thing I got that thing it works great no it doesn't Mother Nature doesn't do tillage tillage just agriculture with fraction is to petroleum they both increase the speed and extent of nutrient removal from the resource leaving the resource degraded that's not what we're about we're not miners I did ask the North Dakota and the Alberta people when I was there earlier this year what's the hurry why don't you leave some of that some of that oil there for your grandkids I mean do you not like your descendants why are you mad at them why do you got to get rid of it all right away I mean you don't think we're going to use some of that down the road 100 200 years okay some expert propose using tillage as a means to address weed resistance if tillage was so good at getting rid of weeds they should all be gone by now not go through the science of that but I'm not going to okay thank you very much it's been a pleasure you you you you you you you