kohl FAQ bedding patterns in beef barns
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nKIgff84n3Y
Education
 Benning is going to change with the season and with cattle, at least a lot of the individuals I'm working with, we're feeding calves, calves in the fall, maybe yearlings to get another turn through there. When we bring them in in the fall, we're dealing with smaller calves, probably start them out on a little bit less hot diet in terms of nutrients and so forth. It's normally dry, the bedding is the highest quality we're going to have each year, so we're probably going to start out with utilizing the least amount at that time. As winter goes on, hopefully the calves are growing, the quality of the bedding is still good. We will have the occasional snow storms that come through and big openings on our buildings will allow some of that to come in. We need to adjust and then increase the amount of bedding when that happens. Spring, we're dealing now with bigger cattle. Normally, if we have some rain or so forth, the bedding is going to be wet, so part of its usefulness has already been used up. We have that thaw period and high humidity, so we're not going to get the evaporation. And we do get the frequent rains, so again, we're going to have to adjust our bedding upward. Now, the last one is summer, and I put this on here. For the people that have changed from an open feedlot to a bedded barn, they tell me that the biggest thing that was an aha moment in terms of it is you use more bedding in the summer than you did the fall and winter, which is the exact opposite. If you bedded in an open lot, you bedded during the winter, but you never did anything during the summer. With these facilities, to keep things moving, one, you've got great big cattle. You've got hot conditions. The cattle are drinking more. Some of the feed ingredients we have may contain some additional sodium, some additional things that cause the animals to drink more. More drinking is going to produce more urine. It needs to be soaked up. And often, at the very end of the feeding period, we're dealing with heat curated bedding. It's pretty much used up. So they'll oftentimes use 50% more bedding in the summer than they do in the winter, and they did not expect that to be when they started out with the facility.