How to rid Weeds from your Garden | 6 Tips from a Farmer
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nn19K7VB0VM
Education
 So I run a half acre vegetable farm in northern Wyoming. I have 80 50 foot by two and a half foot beds that grow two to three crops a year. So I have a lot of weeds to deal with and a lot of crops to deal with. So in order to maintain all of that I have to have systems to make it go really really fast, really really efficiently, and those same systems can work in your 220 or 250 square foot garden at home. So the first thing that I like to do is go around the entire garden and pull everything I consider to be a perennial weed. What that means is it's a weed that has to be pulled out by the taproot with something like a weed hook or a digging fork and especially things like grass, dandelions, you know some of these I don't even know the names of because I've just done it so many times I know that I can't cultivate them. Find weed and get them with the digging fork and with the tap for with the taproot intact and get them in a bucket and get them out of the garden because every one of these that you pull now will not grow back and this is how over time your garden becomes weedless and a lot less work. This is brand new soil. I just started growing in it in August and it's now May so it's not even a year old so there's quite a bit of these perennial weeds. You're kind of going to have to figure out which ones are perennial in your area. You can do some research with your local extension agency but if you do this a little bit every week you're going to be in really good shape in a year. In two years it's going to be an immaculate garden so this little bit of effort on your hands and knees once in a while is going to save you a ton of bending over in the future. Now another tip for keeping your garden weedless is cultivating instead of pulling by hand so using a tool like this cull in your hoe or a stirrup hoe or any of the hoes that are available. There's a million different hoes out there. I'm not making a joke there that's just you know I have to use that term. There's a million hoes out there and any of them will work. You know the idea is just getting the weeds when they're really really small like this is kind of past due this is too big but I'm really going for weeds that are about the size of a quarter or smaller and they're much easier to tackle that way. So this is much easier than being on your hands and knees all day. This greenhouse is 1600 square feet your garden is probably only 200 250 square feet if that. This takes me about a half an hour to cover the entire greenhouse with this technique versus being on my hands and knees. If I was sitting there pulling weeds like this you know I'd be in here all day. So it's way faster way less work to cultivate your weeds instead of pulling them by hand like I just did. All I got to do with this is get underneath them the weeds will be turned upside down and they will die in the sun. That little root will die in the sun and you have to know your weeds too. You know you do this with dandelions it's not going to work. You have to do it with stuff that will die in the sun really really quickly but this saves you a truckload of work. And again this is really new soil and new ground so there's a lot more weeds in here than normal but over time just becomes less and less work. Another tip for keeping your garden weedless is planting in perfectly straight rows. See these two beds of carrots here. I use a special tool to draw a grid on the beds perfectly straight end to end. It makes it really easy to do that cultivating stuff where I'm just running a hole up and down these beds and all the weeds have been turned over just like this and they will die in the sun. Makes it go really really fast. Also if you plant with perfect plant spacing every single time that's very consistent and in a grid pattern like this cabbage you see here you're going to have a lot easier time getting that hole up and down the rows and in between the plants and you have access to every square inch of the bed so you can kill all the weeds without bending over. Perfect plant spacing every time is a must for keeping your garden weed free. I have a whole other video about that that I'll put right here. Another tip is using this black stuff called weed mat all around your garden to stop weeds from growing in between the outside and the inside of your garden and all it does is it stops light from hitting the plants. They die over time and water comes through so you don't have big puddles but this is really cheap. You can buy it on you just google weed barrier and you'll be able to put it all around the perimeter of your garden so you have a nice barrier from the outside where the seeds weed seeds are coming up and blowing in and it makes it a lot easier because you have a lot less weeds growing right next to all your plants that you want to harvest. So the most important of all these tips is doing a little bit of all of the stuff that I mentioned every week. Doing a little bit of consistent effort every week is a lot better than doing it all at once when you have giant bushes of weeds in July. If you just spend 15-10 minutes in your garden doing all the stuff that I talked about every week it'll be a lot less painful eventually it'll turn into five minutes or two minutes but as you get better at this and consistently do it it's a lot easier to manage. This whole high tunnel or caterpillar tunnel is brand new it took me an hour and 45 minutes to do all the things I mentioned in 1600 square feet and that's because the perennials are really bad in here still there's still a lot of grass that I have to pull every time. I bet you by the end of the year it'll take me a half an hour to do the whole 1600 square feet and so I do this every week on the farm uh on a half acre of growing space which is a lot more than 220 square feet and that's how we keep the all the crops looking as good as they are and the weeds as little as they are. So hope you enjoyed that and I'll see you in the next one. you you you you you you