Report proves Triple Care Farm's rehab program works
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NomREMEy_y8
Nonprofits & Activism
 For 25 years Triple Care Farm has been supporting young people to make real and lasting change in their lives. We were determined to find out what happened for young people long term. In 2014 we chose to work with Social Ventures Australia as leaders in measuring social change. Triple Care Farm's vision is to provide a safe place for change for young people overcoming substance abuse and mental illness. We have five critical design elements at Triple Care Farm. We provide an individualized program through a holistic framework. We provide ongoing support for young people with a commitment to continuous quality improvement and we have a team of experienced and dedicated staff. SROI or Social Return on Investment is a way of understanding the financial and social benefits that are created by a program or activity. In the financial world we'd like to know that the investments we're making are having a financial return so we use return on investment calculations to figure that out. In the social sector we'd also like to know that the investments we're making in activities and programs are having the social impact and the financial impact that we believe they're going to have. SROI is a method for assessing the degree of impact we're having and the outcomes that we're having in the social sector. So we found that Triple Care Farm had created significant social and economic value for its stakeholders including young people who participated in the program, their families, government and the AOD sector more broadly. Specifically between 2009 and 2013 Triple Care Farm generated an SRI ratio of 2.9 to 1. So what that means is that the every dollar that was invested in the program Triple Care Farm generated nearly three dollars in social value for its stakeholders. Something that was perhaps surprising or unusual about the research was that we found that for young people two-thirds of the value that was being created for all them related to changes that were occurring in the medium to long term. So this demonstrated that Triple Care Farm program really was helping these young people to create sustainable long-term changes in their life. Being in this environment definitely helps you because you know you're away from everything. It's not just like there's a brook shop around the corner or you know a dealer's house around the corner. You can just you know it's away from everybody and all your problems and everything so it's like you can start new here. When I first got here I didn't even think when I got out you know something would change on the outside. You know I thought like yeah it was gonna sort of flow through it and then get out and everything could be sort of the same on the outside you know be absent from drugs for a little bit but then but now I feel like I can go back into the world and you know actually have a chance of staying off drugs get a job and yeah be a normal person again. What this is you know this place gives you the best chance possible to get off drugs. I was really pleased to find that young people found hope. That they moved from places of despair, places where they felt that life was not worth living, to in a very exciting place of discovering they had things to offer the world, they had things to offer our community and they were worth that effort. I was really pleased that we found Triple Care Farm made a difference to young people's lives long term. This research has given us the confidence to know that what we do works. We also know there's a huge unmet need in the community. We want to grow our program to be able to help more young people.