The Agroscope Research Programme ‘Microbial Biodiversity’
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nTDAb0UPduQ
Entertainment
 Bacteria are everywhere and are very important. We couldn't live without these microorganisms. Among other things, they're essential for our food. For example, for fermentation in cheese, for plant growth, or in the soil. Agriscope is researching these microorganisms for our agriculture and food sector. The focus here is on biodiversity, in other words, on the interaction of the various bacteria. If we imagine that in one gram of cheese, there are 1,000,000 bacteria in one gram of water. Or in one gram of water, there are 10,000,000,000 bacteria in one gram of water. And we only know less than 1% of the world's available species. We really want to know which species are in this system and how we can use them. Cheese is one of our research fields. Here, our main aim is to prevent faulty fermentation and other defects in the cheese. It's so that in the practice, when the rice is used to be a mistake. Often these products don't come to the market. Many of these mistakes are not understood until today. They are leading back to bacterial activities. If we know which bacteria are the cause of the disease, we can search where these bacteria are located. And then we can apply the measures to eliminate these bacteria from the processing process. The influence of microorganisms on plants has long been underestimated. It is only more recent studies that reveal the importance of microorganisms for plants. The plants have many friends and enemies in nature. And we try to use natural friends of plants, in this case bacteria, to use bacteria to make the plants strong and healthy. Another important resource is soil, the most complex system explored in the research program. Here too, research has only just begun. We come in and see who is there. Which organisms are in a soil? If you use the soil to use the soil, or stress, which organisms are there, which are there. What is happening with these communities of microorganisms in the soil? The goal is to learn how we can use these organisms in the soil to produce a service for us or for the agriculture. Only modern technology has made this research possible, allowing us to analyze the genetic information, that is, the DNA of the microorganisms. We can also use the DNA of a complex sequence of microorganisms in the soil. We can also use the data to determine the sequence of microorganisms. We can also use the DNA of microorganisms in the soil. We can also use the DNA of microorganisms to isolate the microorganisms. We can also use the DNA of microorganisms to isolate the DNA of microorganisms. And then sequence the DNA of the DNA of the microorganisms from the individual cells. And thus, we can also use a new microorganisms to describe it. And make it more time-to-date that it is possible to make it usable. That's why we research here at Agroscope for the benefits. So, in terms of what we do know and then do that we need to learn whatеле are looking at a microorganisms. That's why we want to be able to examine the microorganisms in our American ecology well. the fungicide and it's a mission it can sign by the fermenting and Lebensmitteln dass wir weniger fehlhafte produkte produzieren oder by the forbidden fruit bar kein sein dass die Boden fortbar ganz gezielt durch den Einsatz bestimmter microorganismen gefördert werden kann the agri-scope research program consists of the sub themes soil plants fermented foods and technology the program aims to make positive use of microbial biodiversity in the agriculture and food sector