The struggles of YouTubing!  Farm life Wildlife photography Video editing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nxEhXEnQh_g
People & Blogs
 Hey guys, Capra here and this next video is about just some of the struggles that we have making YouTube videos. And of course you hear that rain, as soon as I turn the camera on we're getting a downpour of rain. But anyways, I'm just going to give you two examples in the last 24 hours of struggles videotaping YouTube videos. And they're kind of funny and if you have done videos, I'm sure you know the kind of struggles that I'm going to show you. And if you haven't had struggles yet, trust me you will. So let's check it out. Okay, so this first video was yesterday. Iron Mike from Walker Outdoors was helping me with deer towers. And I was getting video like I always do and I had to drone up. I got some really good drone shots. But the absolute best shot of the day, the money shot if you will, was when I was going to tip that deer tower up with the tractor and get it into place. Because that's the most tricky part. So I put the drone up like I do, you know, hundreds of times. I started the record on it and it was recording. And as soon as I started lifting the tower, the drone quit recording. And usually I hear a beep when it does that, but I didn't hear a beep maybe because I was concentrating too much on the project. So this is all the video I got. I got just a little bit of cache and like literally two seconds of the best part of the whole day, which would have been a beautiful, beautiful video shot. So let's check this one out here. So you want me to come back a little? Yeah, I'll pack it up a little bit. Hit the record. Didn't hit the record. Didn't hit the record. Okay, and the second one is I have an archery target in my backyard. And a deer came and busted it, you know, a couple weeks ago. So I put a camera on it to see if I can videotape the next time it happens. So the next time we had a good encounter, the video was crappy. So I changed cameras to a supposedly HD camera. And I positioned it just right because the deer usually ram right from the front, you know, antler to antler. And so we woke up this morning and the deer target was in pieces all over. So I knew it had been rammed by a nice buck. And of course, the video didn't turn out very well at all. I mean, this could have been another one of them. Really, really good videos. But we got one video of the buck. And for some reason, he rammed the deer from the side. But either way, the video camera should have triggered a lot sooner. I'm sure that deer circled around the target. But this is all we got from that one. So let's check this one out. Okay, and I have to add a third one. Just happened a few days ago. Yes, this. Mrs. Capper has taken up a new hobby of wildlife photography. And this last role that she took was by far her best role. She said she got an incredible, super close-up video of a frog. Super close, super crisp. So she comes in, puts this in the computers, reads it just fine. She switches from one computer to the other. And something happened to this card and fried it. And she hadn't saved them on the computer yet. So her best stuff is gone. I spent hours on the phone with customer support with Dell. I've tried recovery software things. And it's just shot. Something happened that fried this card. And it is inaccessible. So if you guys have had experiences, put them in the comments. And we'll do this together. But let's just give you a little idea about how frustrating it can be sometimes when you're trying to make decent videos. And it always happens when you get the best shots. You know, this stuff doesn't happen when you've got crummy stuff. So stay tuned. And we'll do this together. I appreciate the support. We'll catch you on the next one.