Cleaning Out a VSI Deicing Sprayer for Storage
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NxqDxIBmf4A
People & Blogs
 Hey this is Dave from Voitsmith Innovation and today we're going to be doing a video on the steps that we recommend and the steps that we also personally take for cleaning out our liquid de-icing. These would be the steps that we recommend obviously when we summarize the units for storage over the summer until next de-icing season. As we know salt brine in itself especially the additives that we run can be very corrosive. Now it's really not an issue with the components of the system itself. I mean everything that we run is either poly or stainless but there are some sensitive electronics on the unit and some parts of the engine that we want to address before we let them sit all summer. The main point of concern would be the electronics including the servo valve and what can actually happen is when these units sit the water evaporates out and leaves the salt behind and salt water is actually a very interesting mixture because the salt can actually creep out of places that the water can't so it's very important that we flush all the salt water out of the system and just make sure that the pump, the electronics, the valves, everything are clear of the of the salt so it doesn't sit in there and evaporate out and leave a hard solidified chunk of salt in the system. And really there's a lot of different methods that guys swear by. Some guys will use salt neutralizers and other products for cleaning up the tank. Honestly we just use water, Dawn dish soap or some type of other cleaner. As long as we flush the system out really well it's going to be fine. So the first step that we're going to take is obviously fill the the tank up with water. Now we rinse out the insides of the tank depending on how the clean or dirty they are it's just a good practice to have. Especially if you're going to be using the units for maybe watering going into the summer herbicide applications. But basically what that entails is we just run a garden hose up inside flush off the sides of the tank. And then we only have about 300 gallons in this thousand gallon sprayer. That's gonna be plenty to flush the system out. What we're gonna do now is we're gonna go up there we're throwing a little bit of Dawn or whatever you want to use to clean it out. And then we're just gonna let the system the system recirculate for a little bit. So we're gonna have the main tank valve open and then you'll see the two inch self fill line on our new models here is actually how we're just gonna recirculate it around. We're gonna let that run for oh a good five minutes just to make sure that the pump and everything is cleaned out. And then and then from there we will be pumping it out through the the boom the valves and everything else. So why don't we get started on that. Oh yeah. Make a bubble bath. One thing to consider this truck obviously has a hydraulic pump on it but if you do have the gas pump on your on your sprayer now is a really good time to throw in either a stabilizer or some kind of fuel treatment additive. I'm a big fan of the marine stable it's got the ethanol neutralizers in it. Had really good luck with that. Just make sure that you put something in there so that the carb doesn't get plugged when sitting over the humid months. Alright so we've let the the tank recirculate for a couple minutes here and now the way that we're gonna clean out our electronic system is by turning on the controller itself in the truck. And what we're gonna want to do is flip to manual mode because it knows that we're not moving. Take my hold switch off there and by going to volume per minute now this is the exact same method that you would use if you're in a small parking lot or you don't want to run an auto and you open up the servo. We're gonna open up our valve which you can't tell right now because my boom sections are actually off and the truck is off. We're gonna open our servo up wide open and then we're gonna open up our three boom sections. What that's gonna do is obviously flush that water that we have through the electronics and out the boom. It's a good idea to clean out the boom too for sitting just so that you don't have any issues coming into the fall when you want to use it again. So we're gonna do that here fire up the truck. On this one we're gonna gauge our PTO and now we'll turn our boom sections on. And you can see opening up the servo 14 gallons per minute right at the center boom. I'm not gonna turn my side booms on because I'm actually in the shop right now. But you can you can pump it out this way if you want. To speed things up we're actually just going to we're gonna pump up through the two inch line here on the truck itself just because we're inside. It's a good idea I did just flip on my three-lane boom that way the control valves for the boom sections got cleaned out. But in all honesty once we pump it out like this we'll we'll be good for the final steps of the procedure here. Okay so we finished pumping out the the contents of the tank. Just a few other steps left here that that we want to make sure that we we cover. One is we have our filter element obviously. Usually you don't mess with this a whole lot if you're getting good flow and everything your filter is likely fine. But at the end of the season we do like to clean that out again because anything we do now is gonna be a lot easier when we we get that unexpected snowfall in in October. So easiest way to do this just like in the field you can drain your your filter body so you don't take a bath with it. And also we're gonna pull the plugs on the pump itself and they're generally gonna be pretty tight. What this is gonna do it's actually gonna drain the pump and we got one more on the bottom here. There we go. Okay now we got the bottom plug out and you can see that there's actually quite a bit of quite a bit of product left inside there. It's actually pretty important to do because even if you let your sprayer sit for for a long period of time during the winter. What can happen is actually that water can evaporate out of the pump we've taken apart quite a few pumps that we've had sent back by customers that were defective and and what you can actually see is the line where the the salt brine or the was in it and the rest of the pump is actually all salt and that can actually be pretty pretty hard in these seals in there because that salt will get in between the seals and then you have a very very abrasive surface when that pump fire is up again. So it's a pretty simple process to do. We'll even do it during the season if our temps are gonna fall really cold and we're not gonna be de-icing. We might not have enough additive in the system. We'll drain all the plumbing on them. Exact same concept as if you were you know draining plumbing in a house or or a garden hose. So that's about it for this. We're gonna pull this filter off. Just need a pipe wrench to do that. And we actually haven't even changed this filter yet or even checked it so it will be the first time we see what's actually in it. And you can see we actually have quite a bit of junk in there. A lot of that is from not cleaning out the tank when we pop the bulkheads in it. Some of the sealing agent. But you can actually see how much these filters can take. We've been running this I don't know we probably have you know 5,000 gallons through this truck. And with all that being filtered out we still didn't have any performance issues. So nice thing about these filters all you do have to do is wash them out and then install them the exact same way that you took them apart. So we're gonna do that and then we'll put all this back together here. Now one of the final steps that I recommend if you do have a gasoline engine make sure that you clean everything up really well and then we're gonna want to focus on putting some penetrating oil or fluid film WD-40 something on the engine just so any residual salt that might be there isn't going to cause any any rusting issues with the humidity and the oxygen during the during the summer. One part in particular that we like to focus on is actually at the recoil cover where the flywheel and the block meet. Most of the engine failures that we see are due to that part seizing up. For some reason that main bearing there or the the crank bearing must be very susceptible to getting salt in it when it sits and then actually lock the entire engine up. It doesn't hurt to put a little oil in the cylinder maybe if you like to fog your engines with some fogging oil that works really well too. But really at the end of the day your equipment will take care of you the way you take care of it. So once we do that to the engine the last step when we pull it out of the truck is obviously disconnecting the wiring and that'll just be our 10 pin connector that we have that that goes from the cab to the electronics here. And make sure you put some dielectric grease on that again if there's any corrosion you might see use some electrical terminal cleaner and get that taken care of. Dielectric grease put the caps on. Usually the wiring harness is going to stay with your truck so make sure that you wrap that up on your extension harness and put it in a safe place. If your controller is not permanently mounted there are two spots in the or for the wiring that you're going to disconnect and that entire controller can come out of the cab for you. Make sure you put them in a safe place you know you can find them when when next season comes around. Again yeah just washing the the metal and everything itself maybe if you want to put a little oil or penetrating oil or fluid film again on the skid touch up any spots it might be chipped from rust just anything to help increase the longevity of the unit. But that's pretty much it really it all the supplies to everything that we have just make sure that you you flush water through it maybe a little bit of soap get all of the the valves and everything opened up and your unit should be ready to go for for next winter.