Should you lease equipment? - TMT
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ny5qs6VK4A4
Autos & Vehicles
 Missicks, a helping hand with your land. Neil from Missicks here with today's 3 Minute Thursday. Today we're going to have a short conversation with you about leasing equipment and whether it's something you may want to consider. The popularity of leasing seems to ebb and flow a little bit depending on market conditions. I personally have never been a big proponent of it simply because it's pretty well known that leasing a piece of equipment is simply going to be more expensive than buying it outright. There are situations where leasing a piece of equipment can make sense and we've been seeing more situations lately where we feel like it's something that you might be in a situation that you want to consider. The pros to leasing are going to be things like tax deductibility and that's the reason why a lot of companies choose to do it. When you buy a piece of equipment, normally you would have to depreciate it and by leasing it, you can claim that entire expense up front in that tax year and write the whole thing off. Now, because of something called Section 179, a lot of companies are able to depreciate a lot of big ticket purchases up front and in full over phasing off now over the next couple of years, but it's been pretty common practice lately. We don't see as many guys doing it for that reason anymore, but there are tax implications to leasing over purchasing. Another reason why we've been seeing it done is for guys that may not have the best credit. Credit's one of those things that you can't really start to establish a good credit history until you've managed to buy something expensive and start to make payments against it, right? But it's a chicken and the egg kind of thing. Like what comes first? How are you supposed to finance something expensive if you don't have the credit to be able to do it? Leasing usually has a little bit lower credit standards than what an outright purchase does. If you've been having some trouble on that side, leasing a piece of equipment might be a way to get you started, to get you into a business, get your feet on the ground and be able to start making those payments against the machine. We have seen some guys starting to do that. Another reason may be just because the payments, the overall monthly payments are lower than the payment that it's going to take in order to buy something. When you finance a piece of equipment, usually you're more often than not at a 48th or a 60 month term. On a $50,000 piece of equipment like most of these skid loaders, you can have a payment in excess of $1,000 a month. When you lease something though, you're never really going to own the machine. You're just paying off a portion of what's called the residual. The way a leasing company will look at a lease is they'll take that piece of equipment and project out and say, what is this thing going to be worth say three years from now? They're then going to go and say, how are we going to make a margin on this thing when it comes out and make a little bit of profit? They're going to figure out how much of that residual they need you to cover. Then those are basically going to work back into the payments that you're going to make. What we're seeing purchase prices coming back at around $1,000 a month for a machine like this, you can get lease rates at say $500 or $600, about half of what that monthly payment is going to make. If you need a machine for the long haul, does that make sense? No, probably not. You're probably better off buying. If you need a machine for a short period of time or say a rental situation or a snow rental, maybe you're just getting started in business and you don't know if this thing is going to last for the long haul, leasing a machine might be a good way in order to get into that piece of equipment without the commitment of an ownership purchase. If you have any further questions about equipment, you're thinking about leasing a machine and we could help, give us a call at Messick's. We're available at 800-222-3373 or online at messicks.com. We'll see you next time.