2025 BIGGEST AGRICULTURE DRONE TRAILER | nuWay AG
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O09n6loMiYU
Science & Technology
 I'm Mike with New Way Ag and also Drone Deer Recovery. We've talked about it for a long time that we're gonna release our own Ag drone trailer. And here it is. I'm super excited. This thing is basically 99% done. There's only one small thing that isn't completely done, so I'll point that out once we get up top. But we're gonna start with this. It is a deck over 22 foot trailer built with a 32 foot flight deck up top for your drone. So it's gonna be absolutely the best trailer if you're looking to do a lot of acres. So farmers or custom applicators that are really wanting to cover acres, this is built to run the DJI drone, the T40. You're gonna get two DJI generators set up with charge boxes up top, so those have a cooling station in them as well. It's got power running up top to the top deck, so you get your chargers done and your batteries there. And then you get power up there as well for charging your controllers or something like that. It's gonna come with a Honda GX 160 to pump. This'll basically run on idle and have enough. It'll always be circulating. It's a two inch pump up to 200 gallons per minute, so plenty of pressure. So a thousand gallon clear water tank and the 175 gallon induction tank, this is where you're going to do your chemical mixing. But up top, that's where it gets good. So the flight deck up top is welded by Amish craftsmanship. It's the best stuff that we can do in this area. I'm telling you, it's strong. We did not go cheap. I wanted the very best strong top flight deck. And so that's what we got with this flight deck. Let's hop up top and I'll show you the super secret sauce that we have that nobody else has right now. All right, so up top, what I'm super excited about is this floor. This is the part where we're just not completely done. This floor up top will be one solid piece. Currently, we have a couple different pieces, but it's gonna be one solid piece and the trailers that are being mass produced. I'm telling you guys, I did over 11,000 acres in Indiana last year. Great. You know, this is where we come up through when we get on the top deck. We got the railing up top here. This is the power if you wanna charge your controllers and that type of thing. This is to put an umbrella to have some shade. You're gonna get a hose rail as well. It'll go all the way out to the for this drone that's set out there. This is another cool thing that I think, I haven't seen another trailer that has done this, but we built the charge boxes into the deck of the trailer. And why we did this is we wanna be really efficient. We don't wanna be carrying batteries from the front to the back. You grab one, obviously lift with your legs, come over here, drop it in, and you're like within two steps from being able to put your battery into your drone. That is one thing that I haven't seen anybody else do.