3 Reasons to Start a Hobby Farm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O29liDrxWlk
People & Blogs
 Hey, I thought I'd share with you the reasons why we started this farm. A lot of people, they have an interest in starting a hobby farm or having a small farm, and there's a lot of people that are afraid to do it, and I'll just share with you the reasons that we did it. First and foremost is just I've always wanted to do it. I've been a dream of mine since growing up as a kid, to have my own animals, to raise my own beef, to have chickens and pigs and cows and goats and all of that. So it's always been a desire for us. The second reason that we chose to do this really was, you know, we wanted to see what it was like to raise our own beef, raise our own pork, have our own chickens that would lay eggs, and just that, see what that was like, to just experience that instead of going to the grocery store to buy your meat, to just graze it yourself. And a lot of people do it for that reason. We're still in the beginning stages. We're about to really butcher our first animal next week, so we're excited to share that with everybody. And so, yeah, that'd be our second reason. Third reason really is just to pass on the memories to our kids and our grandkids. We have such fond memories of just growing up and being on a farm and going to a grandparent's house and seeing the sheep or the cows. And so we kind of wanted to relive that. We wanted our kids to experience what it's like to be on a farm. We wanted them to, you know, share that joy with their friends. And then we want our grandkids to see what it's like to be out on a farm and have the same similar memories that we had when we were growing up. So that's my reasons. There's lots of others, but those are probably the biggest three of why we decided to start a small farm. Okay, hey, thanks again for watching our video. If you have any questions on starting a hobby farm or just getting started in raising animals or anything like that, happy to answer any questions you might have. Send me a message through Facebook and we'll get back to you right away. And again, just appreciate you watching our videos.