Climate change impact on food agriculture producers
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o7OXuCF6Gjo
News & Politics
 Well, you think our last heat wave in 2012 was bad? Today's report predicts it will only get worse, especially for farmers. Brenda Elise Gonzalez is live at an Aletha farm in Johnson County where nearly half the land there is used for farming. Brenda Elise? Surplus from last year's harvest, which was a relief from the year before, which was one of the worst droughts. But with this heat kicking in, this farmer is concerned about the next harvest. It's a month before the grass harvest. There you go. For Jim Hamilton, it's arguably the most crucial crop. The cow eats the hay. She has to eat the grain to produce the meat. Which is key for the price of future steak dinners. It's just from the basics right on up to the consumer. It's all dependent upon moisture. These are what they call round bales. Hamilton has harvested grass for hay and livestock for more than three decades. But the past few years have been the hardest. It's going to be challenging, very challenging in the next year. The last drought tripled the value of his hay, but it also left him with fewer bales to sell. He's afraid this year could be worse. My biggest fears are that I'll call them the real farmers that are out here on a daily basis are just not going to be able, some of them are not going to be able to make it. You know, they're actually going to have to declare bankruptcy. The next two months will determine how much hay he'll sell this year. Again, as the drought continues and that feed supply dries up, it could be grim. It'll also determine how much we pay from farm to table. There's not much I can do right now. Mother Nature's basically in control right now. You're just setting weight. On a good year, Hamilton says he can produce up to 3,000 barrels of hay and coming up at 6, how the climate changes could change the future of farming. Reporting, Brenda Elise Gonzalez, 41 Action News.