Orbit Tomato Drip Watering Kit
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O99DIsMmqnY
Howto & Style
 The Orbit Tomato Watering Kit includes everything you'll need to water up to 10 tomato plants from a hose or hose faucet. Because of similar spacing requirements, this kit is also ideal for other types of plants like peppers and eggplants. The materials allow for your choice of a variety of configurations. In this video, we're going to focus on a raised garden bed, two-row configuration, but you can check our website for alternative layouts which may better suit your needs. In this kit, you'll find a faucet drip filter, hose bib to drip line adapter, 50 feet of quarter-inch tubing, 20 one-gallon-per-hour drippers, fittings for the tubing, stakes to hold the tubing down, and couplings for mistakes you might make. In most situations, this kit can be installed in about an hour. Tools you may want to have on hand are a measuring tape, a bucket or other container full of hot water, scissors, or a tubing cutter, and something to mark the locations of your tomato plants. Fittings can be attached by hand, and we'll have tips on how to get the best connection. Before beginning, you'll want to choose a good location for installing this kit, which will ensure you have great results with your tomatoes. After selecting your species of tomato, make sure you read the plant requirements, as these will vary depending on the species. If you're planting starter plants, the information is usually found on a small tag included with the plants. Of course, more detailed information can always be found on the internet. Take special consideration of the soil needs, plant spacing, sunlight needs, and how tomatoes grow. You'll also want to consider where your water source is located, as this kit is meant to be connected to the end of a hose or a faucet. To begin, mark where our plants will be located. Make a note of the recommended spacing, as these plants may get quite large, and good spacing ensures maximum tomato production. In our case, we need to space 24 inches apart. Mark plant location with something simple, like craft sticks. This will help the drip line's placement. Now, lay out sufficient quarter-inch tubing for the length of the grow box. Hold the tubing in place with the included loop stakes. Use a loop stake and secure the tubing every couple of feet. At first, your tubing might want to coil back up, but after it's held in place for a while, especially in the heat of the sun, it will stay in position. Now it's time to start attaching the fittings. Use a pair of scissors or a cutting tool to cut the tubing and insert a tea fitting to bring the tubing stems out to the plants. These fittings can sometimes be tough to insert. Leaving the tubing in the sun for 30 minutes can help by softening the tubing. If the tubing still gives you trouble, soak the tubing for 10 seconds in a bowl of warm water before inserting the fitting. Once inserted, the barbed tea will hold in place even under water pressure. Repeat this step for each branch of the tubing, adding one tea at the end. Measure out how much tubing you'll need for each branch. Note that some might be a little longer than others. You'll want to be 3 to 4 inches away from the plant. Next, insert a tea at the end of the branch and attach two more small branches and end by attaching a drip emitter to the end of each. Finally, attach the branch to the main line. Note the configuration of the design provides two drippers per plant, which is ideal to ensure the roots get sufficient water on each side. These branches allow the drippers to be moved further away as the plant grows. Now repeat this process for each plant. At the end of the line, connect two branches to one tree, in this configuration. Now we're ready to attach to the hose or hose faucet. Screw the filter onto your hose or hose faucet and screw the hose by drip adapter onto the filter's side inlet. The push fitting connection allows for easy attachment and release. Push the tubing into the adapter. Make sure to press the tubing all the way into the fitting. The quarter inch tubing can now be locked into place by rotating the lock symbol on the collar to the arrow on the fitting. To release the tubing, rotate the collar counterclockwise, aligning the unlock symbol on the collar to the arrow. Push the collar down and pull out the tubing. Now that the drip system is attached, it's time to test. Turn on the water and observe that each dripper is emitting water. Note the water flow will be small. Each emitter will put out one gallon per hour. After everything is running correctly, you're now ready to plant the tomatoes, either starters or seeds. Now for watering. If the soil is already moist from our testing earlier, we may need to add just a little extra to make sure the new starters get exactly what they need. As for long-term watering, how much is enough water? Well, there's a lot of factors that go into deciding when and how much to water. As the plants are new, you'll want to be especially attentive to ensure they don't dry out. We always want the soil to be damp, one to two inches down. If you notice it's dried out at those depths, it's a good time to water. As the summer progresses and the heat rises, you may find that watering more than once a day is necessary. Test your system for 10 minutes and see how deep the watering goes. If it's not deep enough, add another 10 minutes and continue this process until the water depth is at a good level. Soon, you'll have a good idea of how your soil retains moisture, which will tell you how much you need to be watering. Timers are a great way to automatically water your plants. Visit Orbit Online for links to videos on how to program the timer you've selected.