What is crop rotation? - "Agriculture 101: America's Heartland"
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O9YDlcKG4rA
Education
 Hi, my name is Marcus Meisler and I have a question about agriculture. Now, I know that improving the environment is on everybody's minds these days, and I've actually read that crop rotation is one approach to support sustainability when it comes to farming. But I just don't know what those words mean to the farmer or to me as a consumer. Let's give you a little information that just might clear up those definition difficulties. When we talk about rotating crops, we're not talking about circular cornfields or those big irrigation arms that move in a circle to water crops across parts of the heartland. Crop rotation really has to do with planting different crops in the same field from year to year as a way to improve soil conditions and reduce the need for artificial fertilizers. How does it work? Well, way back in time, farmers discovered that if you keep planting the same crop year after year, you use up the nutrients in that soil and you get disappointing harvests. But plant a different crop and you can replenish the field by adding new nitrogen to the soil. Crop rotation can also improve soil structure and fertility by alternating deep-rooted with shallow-rooted plants. So what's rotated? Well, soybeans and corn are big players in the rotation game, along with beans adding nutrients to the soil and improving yields. But lots of other plant choices come into play. Think about rye, oats and barley, even clover, depending on the soil, the climate and how much rain a farmer can expect to get. Which brings us to the other word you asked about. All of this works to improve the soil, making it possible to sustain the land and get a better harvest year after year. People aim to support M самом-ssa-Linders' Blue Fright and Plainsος E spaceships Two exercises Two exercises If we begin to learn more things from scratch, then reach the new система to Atlantic State, which isbenaz inde wisest the abra溢Silent Gougしまies and services as well-being of ANAFO This does not aussi make an alternative thanس43, by the relevant states of Canada Montgomery, or breast milk. никакого times the entire industry for step is to ahead to participate. Number 25 toaney-突 bydimensional