Livestock and Cover Crops: Grazing Management
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_HQPiwJJ4M
Science & Technology
 Music We're looking at stock density, so the number of animals per acre, and also utilization rates are the amount of residue that we're going to be leaving behind when we're finished grazing. Music We have two treatments that have 28 cows, and so the high stock density we have three cows per acre versus our moderate stock density where we have one and a half cows per acre. All these treatments have the same stocking rate. The difference is that the ones with the lower stock density are going to be grazed for a longer period of time, where the ones with the high stock density are going to be grazed for half the time because they have double the animals. So that's a really important management decision that farmers and ranchers need to make when they are going to graze their cover crops. The other management decision is how much residue do we want to leave behind, and what's the impacts of all of this on soil health. Music We're going to graze this as a full season cover crop this year and next year, and then the following year we're going to put a cash crop of corn in, and look at the economic savings and benefits of that corn in addition to the economics component of our livestock production. Music So we're looking at two utilization rates. We're looking at a take half, leave half, which is a 35% utilization of the available forage, and then we're looking at a full use, which is calculated with a 50% utilization of the available forage. Music As a producer, maybe you don't want to do all those calculations. You can just, you know, monitoring and making sure that you're moving your cows and taking them off at the appropriate time. And so these sites, we're visiting them a lot, just depending on when the cows need to be moved, and we're moving these cows anywhere from three days to every week. Music This project's going to give us a better understanding of how grazing management within our cover crop systems influences our soil health, and also give us an idea of scalability and what will work for different farmers and ranchers in North Dakota. Music Music And Music Music E Music That was awesome, the look down under 80s. Music That was a great memory. It was a great memory drop down. When it was a great memory It was amazing, it was perfect to move forward. We're looking to see how a adaptive memory