Village Farming for Survival | PNG Bush Life | Yipma Baruya | Melanesia Raw
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oag6W33ixAw
People & Blogs
 Hey Mar Declaration I samb British Yeeeeee. Ok, ok. Ok, ok. Guys, this is our garden here. We have a taro garden here and we are cleaning up this area to plant another taro garden here. So we have started digging and cleaning up there. Then from there we will clean it all the way down, set it down and plant taro. So as you can see we are busy doing these gardenings here just to keep us going and then some coins by selling taro at the market. Okay guys, this is our taro garden. So maybe after a month or two we will last this taro. Okay guys, I am drinking sugar cane here. This is a new taro garden. Yeah, yo! It is a new taro garden here. We start planting taros here and all the way down as you can see. Guys, we are extending this garden down. We planted taros there already and now we are digging this part of the garden which we are extending it weekly. So we are cleaning up this area and digging the soil to make preparation to plant taros saka siya. Here is our taro garden to fall inside. Dlatego role- nasa river街 our Arbor poplar. So we are asking Piktels to place our waterِ More 니detcyclical tierra as you can detect. as you can see we have a turtle garden here okay so this is another turtle garden here we will have maybe after one month time we'll have this we have a new garden here we have planted turtles here and we are busy here at a new garden site yay is going Hey guys, this is a site that we are making garden. It's a new taro garden that we are cleaning. This week we will do this, float and plant some taro suckers with some bananas and other vegetables. ... okay so this is the new taro garden here so yeah so You wouldn't have rid that. In the next 6 people, they invitechts to remove bags from the null easily. Make 2015 brothers to the quarry together here by Mr. Believe. Wash in front. natural leave with the mixture,öl<|ur|> Allow me to wash this way To Thank you.