Harvest Time! Peas Potatoes Broad Beans & More
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oAV2DOKRtqg
Howto & Style
 Sometimes when you're gardening things get thrust upon you, things you weren't gonna do but suddenly you have to do. Last night it was lustry as you like, the top of my veggie pod blew off, luckily it was tethered so it didn't go over next door. But it took my, my peas were entwined on the mesh canopy and they got ripped out, well most of them got ripped out, as I say thrust upon me. I'm now harvesting peas. I was gonna leave it a couple of days actually but looking at some of these is probably just the way I'm doing it now. I don't mind if they're a little bit hard some of them. All taste the same once they're steamed to me. A bit awkward this. These are the, don't lose that, Douche Provence. Lovely pea. And these are all for me. Not many to a pod but they taste so sweet. All I'm gonna do with these, I shall be podding these or shucking them is it? As soon as possible, today and getting them frozen. I was gonna do this out there at the front garden but the car mechanics there doing my steering. So I'll do it here, I'd probably better out here anyway. Sat down. No point wasting energy standing up. And speaking of sweet, Ali's sweet wave snow peas aren't far off harvest. They're not the allotment. I noticed they're a mix, I didn't realise they're a mix. There's some purple ones and some green ones. Well they all go green when they're cooked, don't they? I think I've still got some of these saved from last year actually. But what I'll do, I'll pick the... I'll take out a few of the drier looking ones and I will dry them properly for next year. I'll take out a few of the drier looking ones and I'll take out a few of the drier looking ones. I'll take out a few of the drier looking ones. I'll take out a few of the drier looking ones. There we are. Not a bad hole for my little veggie pod area. There we are. Okay, time to start... podding. Shucking or whatever they call them. Let's find a few dry ones. Paler green rather than dry. Now don't eat too many, Steve. I'm just checking on the car. Still there. What's that one? Six in that one. Oh no, six in that one. That's what happens when you break your routine look. Seven. Seven. Seven. Seven. Seven. Seven. Seven. Seven. Affiliate. There's a question. Is it easier to break the inside of the curve or the outside? Let's have a go. That was the inside. It naturally goes to the inside. There they are. Not bad from a square foot. One more, hang on. Not bad from a square foot in the veggie pod and they will be frozen in just about one hour from picking. So... 300 grams all but. Brilliant. I can save a few for tonight and I'll freeze the rest. Not going to blanch these because they'll be used in a month easily. Deuce. Provence 22nd of the 6th. 25. There we are and I've got... How many do I save in the end? 2, 4, no I've got 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 13. 13 times 6, 60. So we've got about 78 seeds there. So I'll go... I'll tell you what I'll do with them. I'll put them on there so I know. I'll put those in the green as for drying out. So that'll be enough for next year. I'm sure I've got some left but it's always good to have fresh seeds in it. Catch you soon guys. All right guys up the plots. Both plots today. Bit of harvesting. First off, Winston potatoes. Now I normally only grow these for show but I'm not doing shows this year. So these will be for... just for eating really. They've gone over now look. Um... planted on the 20th of the 3rd and it's now the 26th of the 6th so just over three months. Not too bad. Nothing's coming out with the holmes look. Stroach on top of this one. There's one. I want to try and save this stroke actually. Yeah. Might as well because there's no point digging it in really because this is going to go... this compost is going to go on another bed in a minute. Right. Now, a bit awkward doing this this way. Let's get what I can from the top then tip the rest out. If you can see these on here. I'm just going to furtel around for most of them I think. Nice and clean looking. Seed spud. Yuck. The other half of the seed spud. Right I think... yeah it's tripping that big bucket now. It's certainly nice and wet. I was having trouble... yeah. I was having trouble keeping these um wet during that heat wave. Or damp you know. Yuck. I'll tell you what, there aren't many spuds in here. Another one, another seed spud. Another seed spud. How many did I put in? Or are they just rotting away? Could be they're just rotting away. Maybe it's lucky I'm not doing the shows. I'm not doing the shows. Yes, they are rotting. Maybe I left it too late. Three months. Ehh. Oh, 10 to 12 weeks for the first urn isn't it? So, yeah. All rotting away. Oh well, it's enough for me to have a bite to eat anyway. Well, that is pretty pathetic from four seed spuds. Okay then, next up, ladybirds. Come on mate. Let's put you on the brassicas. Right, elephant garlic. Next up, olephant. Eff a lump garlic. Oh, not too bad, not too bad. Bit small this one. Oh, that's a monobulb. I'll save that for next year. Another ladybird. Come on buddy. Oh, not too bad. Oh crikey, look at this lot. I might just leave them there and let them find their own way. Another monobulb. So I'll save that one. See, I've felt quite big yet. A bit of slime. Oh no, it's not. Just dry. Oh, not bad. Just go and have a look on the old water trough. Not looking too bad actually. Let's do the small ones. I'm just going to leave them whole I think. Just take the tops off. Just leave them. A couple of little bubbles, bulbles around the outside. That one's just starting to split actually. No, I'll leave that one as well. Right, let's have a look at these. The outside skin's quite papery. It's hard to get off. Tell you what, that's almost a monobulb that one. I'm not saving those bulbles. I did it once before. Waste of time. Two years to get an elephant garlic. Just, and you've only got, I've only got small plots and takes up so much space really. Eh, not too bad. Not too bad. Should have used a trough to dig that one up because it's ripped the core off the bottom so I'll be using that one quite quick. And this is the volunteer elephant garlic. It's obviously grown from a monobulb left behind last year. It's about, I have to tell really, about four inches across. God, then it's a fair old weight. Um, and it was growing, just about to see it there, where that trough is amongst the SSP seeds. Okay, that wind's picked up a lot. Next up, um, these are the, um, oh, Sweet Wave Snow Pea mix from Ali. And there's some whoppers in there. Look at that. So there, pick these when the, you can just feel the peas inside the pods. Not like Mange too, that are totally flat. Or, Podding Peas, which are totally formed. They're in between these. So let's go pick the first lot for now, let some of them carry on. See that, that one might be a little bit too... Oh no, that's alright. Yeah, talk out my backside here, Steve. No comment. Probably won't, I'll leave that. Oh no, that's, yeah, see they're in there. I'll bring this one, put them in my pocket and I'll show you that one in a minute. It doesn't matter if you eat these a little bit early or a little bit late really, then they're still peas. And they still taste like peas, you know. I like the way they're purple and green mix. These will go nice on a Sunday roast. Okay then, there's the Sweet Wave Snow Peas. Love the different colours. Just about right now, you can just see the peas in there, look. So, I'll have to show you how many I've got. I'll tip them out when I get home probably. Yeah, big load in there, look. And there's plenty more flowers on the vines yet, so more to come. Right, next, I think it's Red Currant's next. Yeah, and that's about it for plot 26. There we are, not a bad look. That'll do. I'm going to freeze these and make a sweet dish next week with them. Oh. Next up, broad beans. And I reckon what I'm going to do with these, I'm just going to pick the old lot, take them over to the compost heap and do it over there. Ooh. I spy with my little eye. Some lovely little cauliflower. I'll show you those. Ooh, look at them. Not a very good harvest at all this year, broad beans. I'm chatting with a few plot holders, they say the same. But enough for a meal. That's it. That's it. Right, that's the broad beans depotted. About 300 grams, not too bad. Two types. Gloucester Bounty and Eleanor. Not sure which is which, they're all mixed up. But some have got yellow thingies and some have got green thingies. I don't know what they're called. But don't they look like cockles? Let's hope they don't taste like it. Last up for today is a couple of peppers. These are curry. I'll take both of these. You have a snips really. And I can't remember for life me what these are. But I'll let you know as soon as I get home. But they look bloody fantastic. Well that's just about it for the harvesting for now. My son took the potatoes, um, the peppers or some of the peppers. I kept a few of the Palermos. And I froze the broad beans. I froze most of the peas. I had some for a meal. And I froze the red currants. I'm pretty sure there's some else. My son remembered to get a snapshot of the roasted curry pepper. He said it was delicious. So if I get any more fruits, I'm going to say some seeds from this one. And speaking of harvests, I think I'm going to get a few peculiar runner bean pickings this year. Look at this. Do you remember a few, uh, well that was it last year it was I think? Yeah, last year. People were talking about, um, Greek gigantes having different colour flowers because they've cross pollinated or something. Well this is my Greek gigantes. These are my own safe seeds. And I've got some red and... Where are we? So I've got some white flowers. Ah, that's to be expected from your own safe seeds. But this runner bean over here is one called Stenner from a reputable seed company. And it's got white flowers and it's got red flowers. And these are out of the sealed packet. So no idea what's going on there. The only one that's come true to type if you like so far are the, uh, white emergo. And they all look to be white at the moment. God, this gardening lark's never easy is it? And that is just about it guys. I was about to rub off those aphids on the cabbage seedling there. And I noticed this wasp hanging around. So I got my phone very quickly and, uh, well I filmed it. And here she is laying her eggs. Parasitic wasp, thank you very much. Look after yourself guys. Take care and I'll catch you on the next video.