Hay Day: Meet the Farmer - 13th Birthday Special Edition
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ODH4F-gRnHw
Gaming
 Music My name is Tony Shane. And I'm Dem Shane and we're from Renton, Washington. We've been playing Hay Day since the beginning. About 13 years. And since then our lives have totally changed. But Hay Day, it remains the same. We met 18 years ago. We ran around the same group of friends. We went to karaoke. You hear this girl all of a sudden singing Faint by Linkin Park. At the beginning just some light rapping, some verse singing, and then it goes into the chorus, screaming. Wow, I'm just like this girl, like she's got it. Since playing Hay Day, we moved to a brand new city, change jobs. And guess what? We're pregnant. We're having a kid. Actually, two. That was lots of learning. Lots of craziness. What? Oh, oh! Pre-kids, sure, you plop down and you play your game and you put in a couple hours. That's just not how life is anymore. We had to start a routine. Making sure that we get to school on time or to a birthday party on time. Because now we're just running late all the time. Daddy, Bryce is on his iPad again. What we've learned is time management. Which I guess is one thing that the game teaches us. It prepped us in a way. Because you mess that up, your farm goes haywire, and then your sequences just go out of whack. It's just like in real life. Ow! Hey! Sorry. We save a little bit of time in order to accomplish our heyday goals. Come on! Let's not be late! Let's go! Let's go! Let's go! I find time in between dropping off kids at school and then just in between sitting and idling in parking lots waiting for something. Hello? I played heyday again. Sweet, Mel. Playing heyday is just very relaxing. It's just taking time for myself and being able to manage and actually accomplish a task. With kids, sometimes you can't get anything done. Help me with kids. I love hitting that milestone, leveling up and doing more. How can I make things faster, less scrolling? When you check it off and enjoy the reward that comes with it, that's kind of a sense of accomplishment. Hey, husband! We're getting hungry. Can you get some dinner? Okay, what do you want? Whatever you want. I don't know what I want. What do you guys want? I can always do better at communicating. For the most part, our communication is really just about the to-dos, the logistics. When we talk about heyday, it's actually something fun for us. Just for us to take our mind off of, oh, is this something that we're going to have to do? Something to be responsible for? I'm here and I have a little bit of a moment. We can play, we can chat, just to poke at each other. Yeah, let's play together. It's that five minutes of fun that we get to connect. Hello, welcome to California Burrito. How may I help you? Four crispy tacos. Throughout 13 years of playing, the mouses for me have always been unlocking the stars in each building. Unlock all the fishing spaces, open up the towns, get all the buildings in there. As a completionist, I think that's important to me in the game. And some super nachos. A completionist is, for lack of a better term, a guy who just wants everything. Ooh, thank you so much. And for me, I just want the decorations. I want to make my farm more pretty. Is the quesadilla for her? We'll get that one. We'll get that one. We'll call it burrito. Do you want to help set the crops? Oh, big bite. Heyday, we want to keep playing. It's a hobby for us. I don't know what I'm doing. Oh! I think the game just brings us back because we're not stressing about our life as parents. It's just a way for us to relive the more carefree days. Follow the leader. Ooh. How are you doing that one? How are you doing that one? Keep it up, please. Oh, right. Come down here with me. Oh, my. Over the 13 years, we've built a family, built a life together in this real world. But we've also built this little slice of paradise in Hay Day that has all of our little favorite things. We're very fortunate. We've achieved the dream for real life in the game. Happy birthday! Happy birthday, Hay Day! Sorry. Happy 13th... Happy 13th birthday, Hay Day. Happy 13th birthday, Hay Day. Happy 13th birthday, Hay Day. Happy 13th birthday, Hay Day. Happy 14th birthday, Hay Day. Happy院gebener, Hay Day. Happy 15th birthday, Hay Day.하신