Livestock Farming for Beginners: Pro Tips to Get Started Right
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ogjHGRHWoSQ
Entertainment
 hello livestock farming for beginners pro tips to get started right how many times in salads N O day, ko mwa ebe bw인이, ebe bWeno. Ube hono say Inyame ya shire hini na Akabibika klebin na vogoso uhunную nягwausano washenhu jme a denaste Anasa osha sayia唐na iewonne bwywo proses bwywe kwaembi motirstwa waafaswa Ebe tipabwfilm AMA watimae day wakuwe ni one ten tam . . . . . Yo, you do the same feeling as you love? Oh, nice. You mean that? No, there's no' succeeded. You think of people having a very hard time? Yeah, great! Jordan, how can you grab their ownoc west ferrumy forces first of all thinking of raising animals now your kind of life sucks you know okay If I all the life source nini, I don't know. I'm going to go ahead. Now, I'll be able to I'll be able to be able to update of videos. I'll celebrate. I'll be able to I'll be able to see ya. Yes, sir. You can see, you can see, you can see the family. Now, you can live so you can see basic knowledge in a beginner before you start. Okay. My man found that me see in here. Oh, that's our life talker. I see. I see. I see. I see. I see. I see. I see. I see. I see. getting more information. I People fail. People fail in production in businesses. Not because they just want to. I see some informations They didn't get. It's getting more information about what you're going into. that's a one in the deep end that they want to know a production as i say in the bed or the area more information see we don't get informations after we start the production we need to get it before we start as i said but everyone in that baby now i start the production answer while i hear information that which is not the right thing to do or that is stay behind or you know first time your school your teachers your lectures the effects they be at home when they come to they know what they're going to do or they know what they're going to say as i said but most of the government families they mostly start answer about finding information and this is like he said you might get some talent but i said aha and uh okay with you no um um so so community every day facebook page update every day every day youtube channel share and anything the the the the the the the the just a basic knowledge you know say i will see you soon baby answer but meaning numbers my koko chassi either dancer maybe share with you and somebody and i work actually me okay with that i see and you know after i say particular farmer the accurate manager about the production now was that here honestly very good also there are other things that obviously information from professors as i say yes obviously keep permission for all that we have we have different tools and different category of knowledge everyone in india working and everyone in india working through and also in india policy as i was a sort of world after 11.000 shorted study meeting waspekt man work for chris leaf adapted hated so oh sorry open inkyne we ensure that like my company village as i said aha you know you should get information from right sources not get information for resources and trust me right source of information when it's coming to animal production and from the media hey hey yeah from let's say they are from one internet they are from publishers they are from farm managers now the farmers trust me the farmers are any more local farms they are very brilliant and very intelligent you know they are from the office of 20 they have a book for me because farmers you know they are professors about 10 10 years and they have more than expected experience into the world as a worker actually they know what they are saying but for everyone out of school they will take a photo what they are saying what book is the book the book is telling them i can't say and they say yes i have a mother say in your information it's not too late you can get the information from right sources as i say aha that's it Okay, but I'll say I will say I will say Because I will say I will say I will say I will say But I will say I will say China The production And now But We are not the same The environment The climate The climate The challenge The challenge As I say And she said She has a sort of information for TikTok Facebook Information now But who is giving the information Is the public You can't follow all of them On your farmer Another Another As I say We shouldn't pick We shouldn't just pick from their words We should just pick and know what they are saying As I say Wow Wow Wow Information You know You know Now I will say I will say I will say Budgeting Budgeting Okay Budgeting You say I will say Initial setup You know You know Yeah Oh But you stay here Because There is a saying That If you don't know Where you are going Any word can take you to Distraction Wow Yes And see I did a way I will say We have a fair idea Of what you are coming to do Okay As I say I have to say It will be our It will be our Wapar In the Wapar In the 1000 At least We have to make For eating Feed Communication Those things But I say You might start Alongside The way Only How As I say And he said You know Yeah Yeah We can even know What The purpose Of production The purpose Of production Between The budget Okay Yes Yes Is it For meat Or Egg If If If If If If If If If If If If If If If If If If If If If If If If If If If If If I If If If time commitment yes most most attention before you start a business you need to love the business as i say you need to love you with another forever there is love there is time wow as i say forever there's no and you know when i love my business that we said that's where as i say and before i'm not production in fact you need to love the animals just love the animals like yourself just just have passion for for them just love what you are doing and just believe in yourself you say this is what i'm doing love it do it with care please trust me you can easily make it wow wow you can make it you can easily make it that's your be able to work question beyond a curator now you have a point in your panel you may be at to now you have further the questions never banter may be ready across by subscribing and like and share the videos to your facebook page or your whatsapp community so i'm be joined senior yes sir information about budget any goals the breeze selection for beginners a important okay let us see breeze are very important breeze are very important for today because one the kind of environment you are you have warmer what's the type of commerce it brings for your production okay yes because the comfort this world one of and then that central i'm glad you put out some safety measures because central weather commission here different from north other side and for big issue there was some great vr defense uh their production is higher than others the first one there's some business yeah they can start to every they can respond to every commit okay here too that's a reason sure they if us they are they are very highly prolific okay they are we are strong the community like and accept it yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes for our production sorry to say we are not wearing them for ourselves we are wearing them for people okay okay i thought i said and you know we we we we will only give what the customers would demand okay i can't say yes we only give what the car i would say they have had this week today as a draft a draft a draft a bit of a bit of goods well now what's it i have to say the draft of the or itia is it automatically says that i want it here well then and see that depends on the production what does it say is it yeah i say some interesting yeah if everything is a good good yeah in commercial way not the it's no for basically there's a there's a breeze here in fact they can respond to all the other cameras some may may not what i say ah see you need to know the bridge and where you are relocating that you see a bit i'm with your power go here wow oh yeah okay yeah that's it yeah sorry third and last point here me percent you consider your name the link in our two now obi person question if we say imprimpino yeah now the only say yeah but yeah now yeah okay for last but not the least which is the space requirements we don't have particular space requirements for animal production depending on your stroke okay and see obi officer or 30 difference with thousand deaths the the space requirement area the same as with the person with four thousand okay the number of uh that's the president for the normal production he wanted to start with oh no about space and even for now for the task we mean the other bridge was there and say you don't need life space to start production like you don't need life space before we start teams like lord americans our Dingle what do you mean as i said saying you know or rights only see that's what we'll be here and see same as animal production yeah but sometimes you know yeah in youtube no oh the type of land you need to be because i was like that big man you see today was was a baby yeah yes and then focus over thousand there so well two thousand you know go to that was and then you also started small yeah yes there was and they almost started small and you know send on you see like i said all thousand are i saw a one and you know two thousand so now also said and yeah what started with two i said one of the they are saying they are now have a thousand days because they were able to make it and because one they are part of themselves because they also start from one to all two or three or four to end up or more a hundred as a thousand and you know too many there on modica yes and you know to read who said they are rather and currently the beginners say they can also get today as i say and they can also get today and you know uh and then that said if you are more i can't for more thousand and it's not scared anyone that the answer is clear would be uh start of what you have but that's yeah me number yeah yeah many ideas the person that we are great students and that was a student they get sent a meaningful and see i was there gone on and what yes it's better 10 10 i'm telling no no medication was not me to enter a standard of medication but not with a talk on on their feet small small small small small tiny first two days today no movie yeah me i am here i'm the day because i was eager to know what skills them and then we was okay and you are here the people say and they say at that point they say because of production and they have for selling just for training yes i just want to have a feel of it and you know between and you are moving you are and first okay how the company about nine thousand for three days uh yes nine thousand for three days i and i said from hundred you know yeah it was the information i got it and you can say get more information on what you are going to do as i said get more information i want to see there were people more if you tell me before i was already telling you not only driving and i'm one i thought driving school but i tried two years i didn't hear every day every day to carry it to carry it small small mother driver don't you know in fact you can never do something great ah i'd be a most part of it from somewhere no and again yes you you see just i was there 10 10 best that between me which handle on and the same knowledge it let me show me it can't work between it will do solo that's here and again according to size and as i'm going to physics so only two car just five kilometers that's that one kilometer and as a little car okay okay yes as a total car from a castle castle that's a 30 minute yeah you're there for i say taking this drive yeah yeah because yeah and the same road and just just with this as a yes multiply the distance they said wouldn't be a small smaller than that that's a good point they want to trust me you can easily handle it that's here you see you know because i wanted to be a popular mentee you see a baby answer me go my phone was empty empty-handed as i say aha so so you know what most most so so you know you know because you know essentially life talks there's some of farmers like say and ma they're coffee and yes you can't you can't you can't you can't you can't you can't but sometimes we need to know the the threats and the weakness of the business not yet to me you you you and you know you follow if you don't say we work for business and you don't say we work for money now you need to know your threats first and see after yourself you can say yes yes n can say these are out of as a commercial to other eyes i'm not found that okay that was much but i said before i was about to say what factor oh i understand if you should consider all those factors that trust me you can easily overcome it when the problems come wow wow now i can't get 15 minutes國際ありがとうございます German אז elesан esse assim esse esse YouTube channel. I show you, see a post to video, see a video, see a motivation where you, I say, I don't know if I'm aware of it. I'm not sure if you post to your Facebook page, you post to so far, you can see how you're doing, you can see how you're doing, because you have an entrepreneur hub, you say, what's your association? You say, there's a process that you have the spiritual skills and you want. The next one you have the opportunity, you want to update, book ZMy Heroic Cause John Right. until few years. Thank for having me as a poor<|sv|> friend and I said don't I mean girlologia ask me anything. Who never wants me but she still don't I'm そう So does see the say difference view say and service as you know and then and kind of say information about what you want to do no we are a budget and we are any other space is that's a yes i think that there is no Tuna車 response to your case yeah i'm saying um i'm saying yeah okay you know the difference is being it follows the same trend so nina yeah whoa production enterprise uh uh so ocean animal production and i said the tips in an okana uh also start small so same thing applies to crops assuming crops now could be and you have no idea about it if i swing now say we could be five acres ten acres twenty acres now soon in the area so so i said that i want to show you our baby so internal all started small now when you're so experiencing or now what they're expanding it's mean and so our friend uh urban animals so it goes hand in hand it goes hand in hand so me personally if you want to get into farming now uh i'll not say say just go into animal farming so your farming has to be an integrated system uh we have what we call a whole system farming so you know you are not just growing animals but you are also growing crops you know it it is a closed kind of system so uh say crops now we are not a bit me feed the animals you know animals you know by products in between video crops you know into nothing goes waste so into no ocean see i wash a crop sassica crap wash so uh space is very important but personally no and yet now the way agriculture is not even a major let me say a major major factor because we know people are producing in their garages we know people who are producing on their backyards in their balconies and they are making money out of that so i want to know the way agriculture you don't need a big place we have people that are doing what we call vertical agriculture so instead of a wider place you know how to maximize the space you can get a lot of produce or animals from there so on but you know uh many families and car infrastructures are very important so also in turn into animal production now infrastructure is very very important i think that that is the first thing you might even think about either you are going to find the area and i said uh we provide the water where is the water where is it coming from so because water fencing are very critical for the animals i'll say we are oh yeah our friend a type of production and how will be the fire it is very sad sir that is not that is not i don't know how to say it is wickedness so i just said one coin with you you don't think about your neighbor so i want you know it is evil it is wickedness how do you secure your animals so it is a fencing beer and what provide the fencing uh feeding and watering and all that you know those are things are with me uh i focus on now can be very critical you have to learn from others so now obisa said uh it will be a waku baby uh so and water and all that. Those are things that I focus on. Now it can be very critical. You have to learn from others. So now we have to learn from others. The person is also doing the same thing. In China there might be some conflict. No, you know, it depends on your relationship with that person. So people are ready to share information. It's how you approach and how your business model is. If you create any partner products or whatever you can be, if you are on the list. So it is all information sharing. And to learn from others. Now I can't YouTube. Now YouTube, yeah, there are a lot of information on YouTube. They beat me. I jumpstarted. So spend some time and go through those kind of things. But the most important thing is you think about in case you produce and no one is ready to buy. You produce and as you buy your animals. What is the next step? So the painful thing is you bear, raise the animals. Now, on where do marketing wait? Now, you'll be on top. What that means is that you still have to spend money to feed them. It's all kind of crops and animals, you know, in terms of how to start, you know, there's no much difference. in case you would be able to keep you on your own and you would be able to do it. So, you would have to say, you would have to say, you would have to convert it into something else. You would have to say, you would have to do it. So, crops and animals, in terms of how to start, there's no much difference. Wow. Okay. Wow. Wow, wow. You're all set. Yo. E, wuzia fo, e, medeleng kinato wo, em, so bi pesa, o bi bi ka. But, mi pesa, mi sa Francis, esa babi yo, na, brisimu horon. Nanu na meni, mi sa mayenu din komo, nana, ye ku din komo, ne ku si, see boagotu ina on cram in free south africa anase bia kenya anase uganda na mfanemra miduru gana na wana mkabe sobe thousand five dollars for the sake of self for the sake of self because we are a boga okay because inna ye one yes as a beginner ye benspe hb anase lemfanhash yof okay they are a very simple answer for this move just start from what you have start from the business the business you have in your community in your your quality in your in fact this area i've learned was it started with as a beginner because one as a beginner i said i said well in india we know in fact i have very less and uh every week from different kinds you know requires other extraordinary uh um okay it's required extra techniques and skills because the kind of fitness or ono abuano and you know what if i say uh if i go uh china i say togo different from gana and you know look at how it brings every episode togo abogana are you ready to are you ready to provide him with to provide the animal with that same environment that same system what that condition we are where we need the most important yeah you're feeding and we are see that see that you're the man i want to go i want you to give give it the same feed here before answer you see just touch with what you have other sometimes you know you hire too much you know you're going to go for a way and we're seeing where we should just believe in what you have just just just just maybe what what you have let's say let's leave you what you have and see a margintina sorry you it's not different people from other countries yes that's good treatment good conditions everything okay they are highly productive yeah productive they are very very good but i said we don't mostly acknowledge what you have as i say aha yeah i said that you do about tasks look at this are very good and them two they were being raised you see they are one up here with the climate well you're okay with with the weather condition okay with the cd yes okay with everything it's an elementary armor i come about second but they need to be able to other kinds of visible uh and one very costly two we need to go extra mass to make the animal feel comfortable yeah that's it uh uh yes yeah yeah yeah yeah it can't be being far off rendering uh breed now okay uh senior mr francis you start with what you have so but how do you get it so you don't have it but you have to start with what you have into how do you get it so okay okay uh pick production i see 2002 uh what i did and they said we'll call some of the universities no more research centers so now research centers no they have breeding centers our morizia this animals purposely for sale for farmers in tenobu to me alcohol you remember the democoto ucc ucc farms so you are short said they are pure breed they are free from diseases and they are prolific they have all the qualities none or a day not all can record keepings number the bachelor they've been keeping records for a very long time you know so well we now power near records or who share me the records that's all part of my day now what so into those uh uh normal also worship into the center that is fine that is a good start so but say if you don't have that access now only move your area for one is I would say for birds, you know, one, not even our local birds, not all birds are considered. Or no, not all animals are being considered. There are factors in there, because it's different as a beginner, as a local farmer, only this access to get from some of the cell centers or some of the more institutions. You can even go to our local pharmacy, but we have to consider. We have sensor, yes, she answer, we have to have one. Yes, first year, first year, I have one age, because trust me, local farmers don't keep records. We can testify. We can't testify. If you have any idea, we have a local family, not one, that's the next one idea. First, they have one age. Trust me, farmers can never tell you the truth. Most of the farmers, they are more than the people who are talking about. They are more than the people who are talking about. They are more than the people who are talking about. They can tell their age by their teeth. How can I say? Yes. Yes. And you know, one, I want to test, I want to examine, I want to share, share, in fact, every person of a body, they are talking about, okay, yeah, I want to, I want to, I want to, they should be, it was a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a . last year like in fact more the animal you are going to buy what favors their local scientists are applied not as exclusive content its prayer work, our local scientists are meeting people today the start of behavior dates too to refugees, our academicень behaves question question question question that's my source another a breeder farmer, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, because they lie, he said, he said, because he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, The over-p constituency weights and the income понять, when they went to India, all the way down there was this kind ofques, they tried to apply it to Pakistan and the other thing we derived for the长itta, and he helped let the长itta do it and you had long time, Now, because our family got NBA who had to date 10 to 15. They were still 10 years before I got 30 years. Have they money? Because we've got 10 to 15 years. because Under studies, but we have 3 to 5 isls, me ehh what are you talking about? förmy taking the money there they say, as a beginner reason243key invest detox yourself because singles or a billion dollars diez�� eğ Roy you know what an as a bini area oh no be vet for me it me amboa wana ulusu sabwana that amount of aboa nubi timi diatomu ya moa bease 20 ewo bea uloka eigo nibi a kao deen kao de toho 20 no emma emma 18 emma tuwa emma 18 ukwawa wangwa nmawa ka wudine ye anase in wenye bia moa 36 baabwa bako perwa babi wu nibi wuza uutubwa si shiya adee ni maabibirayetre ni na obi gold ube practice it ups and downs evo farming ni mu na afi wenye grande ansana obi tini ya mi adi si jise mi kase mi koppe bogod bako wa ba mi farmer mi ni mi se mi penude nabe ya adee because already di ma seti ni local ones no already nibi adee mi dede ba nibi diba bi improveu mi head ni keke负 substantia марio maayoya komminima dehfo tight yeah my makakwafaba malani tese Nena babae statinio ukunapes aopasa kapitano na adee wa sasa adee ba bababe show di aasi youno nimi demi day day mehe kasewe farmers now say enど wain tuna youvanse and other wainu se Whain see se Unti bim encore science and research forni adeknikwona be onbia wainia mwenibyache si weekenduca no education, when you say okay, maybe I want to say oh, outweigh, weigh, weigh, weigh, then you give you an idea, say okay, I want to say okay, I want to say okay, I want to say okay s well, means yes, I'll make sure who to groan. And she was pissed at. authenticity program you be industry But you have to call them farmers. And here you have started to say, OK, I want to be 10, 20, where I grew my farmers. And I said, oh, this line of my money, you could sell the core farmer, who would not produce the free. But I had the end here. Therefore, I told you, I didn't practice Nibia. So, yeah, God will be very. I had to. I had to. I had to. I was there, Mr. Menuh, you said, I was there for a family, you need to learn continuously. You see, last night, like I said, the best teacher keeps learning. The best lawyer keeps reading. The best footballer keeps training. But, so yeah, I must not. They are stuck with skills. Yeah, in fact, last five years, we do a lot of work. But that shouldn't be the case. We should. We should keep learning. But we should just upgrade ourselves. Then the power can be. Maybe. Maybe we do a lot of. Some people, back up. Number four. This is not that. Adam yesterday. Now most men. If you've been very productive, you can be practicing well. With my sonums, from my mother. My mom number one. Seven people from yes. If you don't ask her to get more, uh, it yeah yeah mommy yeah i have a question you have already started rearing rocker bears okay and we want to add goods but because of space you want to start with buying and selling what advice can you give us please so uh say i think so uh of uh uh I do have the ready market to go dispose of water now. I ca zuvah Baba and I will Strangish in this place. they drew not way out they can easily die so regardless you can tag along with somebody or you can trade the question is so big so next time yeah happening on okay i go with this particular question okay oh it's my comforts yeah like what i said the question yeah selling here but we really sell our weighted markets and one and also our feed available because buying and selling here with the the faculty and one of the size and the and see if feed in a proper maintenance and more weight and size the market target and you're strong and i said only market target and i said only any customer and what about you again wait to know how much i can say they will still be in the farm they will eat and they might even lose them and just get the market and one person just get multiple customers and say i want to to put our time next week next month i thought the next time i would i want to say i want to to correct and ready that's our ideas how to to be to to to to to animals okay to me another another aspect say say or no answer no easy easy easy or to to the the the the final processor and the for that that is also another but it's not bad they be all they turn out they move i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah very good investment so very profitable senior for you just have to know what you are doing the first one here market i was talking to somebody I said, I said, buy and sell it. Now, on the ground, to me, supply, it's a chop bars via, or supply of mono, they need five a day. We're here 10, we're here five a day. So how do you supply this individual? So what's that, ready market in India? What's my call the deep, deep, deep villages, normally, I'm going to talk to you. It'll be a, we'll talk to you, five million, 10 million. What's the problem, what do you do? I can't win no profit. That is there. So now you can't process it. So say, if you have that, a friend, I've been to me, I process it. And so I'm so good to me, it's guy, if you go. But also holding space, if I was looking for mobile, maybe I'll go by then, if I go for about a week or two years, and sooner, that holding space, I'll say, I'll say, I'll say, certain infrastructure is being able to me to me, I'll say, and I'll say, for the friends, we'll provide the shelter, we'll provide the, so maintenance feed, feeding, throughout that week or two, and Sanomako markets, I'll say, it shouldn't be a very huge space, but it's karibia to me. that's what i'm going to do yes yo mr first hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey good morning francis from right and and and and and charles very soon the gold farming teachings yeah on youtube it's just really good farming so anything else very soon it will be coming out all right thank you oh bonnie good man well they know they have To look for you it goes perlu and we want to dance to it it goes wp education is in all наши Yoaya in Vietnam am pätelenea ap m Hay all maybe mr jacob was he pre my please my question is i was riding pigs before and this one fruit kept all of them at the pen what should i do before getting new ones again to prevent them from dying i said where are you seeing you already we are sorry okay yes sir okay you see the first disinfectant disinfectant trust me disease yeah we don't control we prevent you see the entire member really prevents oh that's here i haven't you know if sir what is that and wanna uh trust me hey i was pretty if i the whole pen if i believe it is if that it should be about two or three times scraper for our 17 or this is 30 pen that would you i come and i said i'll start it and go and they pick from now if i drop your piano operative and i give you know where i dónde and i've got esquRes Sometimes, know, but not to replicate this. That's comforting this. Most, most, most, most, farmers, farmers, I got a family, I'm fascinated, trust me, fascination. They also, fascination, and, and, some, sometimes, because of, they are, initial fascination, they are mixing in tea, but you need, why I take, the, the, the, the, the, the,일러 because, because, they, the, first, first mystery or ser, you are not anigual injection, ser? You are not anigual injection. It usually affects, even inside that, inporno there are other diseases that would be easy to, if ever, it will addressindustryfans2. ir fascination, correct and regular programs, ground but before i was able to follow more last question it's useful with handlers credits with the yeah yeah and we said yeah is that it's not matter what's that but honestly this very simple question about a good oh yeah yes very good is it like possibly like yeah no watch they say hey you know buy and say no oh no no and they're very good okay very good very good that was said sometimes you know i didn't know you know what that differentiates you sometimes we should try and make our product different from others it's that yeah yeah i didn't know that table so hello i'm with it that like it shouldn't be it should be done that new package because i said it's every part they put that away the man or be when i package everything i like to just say theyunci you loud uh translator i like the uh In fact, it is not possible to say every day be a word on mobile. We could almost that day now. It's going a week or more. And see, it's a one-on, it's like a one-on-one. And you're not going to meet in chat. Start one week. And now, next, you say, say, say, I will work and my new cotton. Yes, I will work because the media, the cool. The, I will work. Those are the physical, but I will work with you. And I will work with you. My, my, my, my family. And to say, say, say, say, say, say, say, say, say, say, say. Easy. Aha. Easy. That's it. OK. Yes. Yes. You say, I'm say, your last year, and the economy. So, a question be, ever so day back on home, God student remembers my холод ratepost my school texts? Are you going to get married people now? Yeah. OK. Your, okay. um what? OK! Mr. Francis Mrs. Francis . My friend, were not useammated to drink it, but we know this. Disinfected .. My friend, who is a disinfectantsy ?? it, now diffusion thoroughly, and most time the other year biosecurity and I said that and follow papa so you know will be all back farm will be and make sure say that person is also uh clean so one person foot back be out with your team now I prevent your mom from transmitting some of these diseases from other friends and farms so so no cancer change location and interested movie offering them one in our call another town it's the same field but you are changing I said crop rotation so you are changing where they were to a different location you know you can do that also as well now Mr. Francis can't why goat would smell or friend and females and away now yeah yeah yeah ways to know how quite to say I got this opposite so it's one way miss alright all right i don't know experience foreign i don't know is it's a maze of so that is how they are also able to know whether the animal is ready for mating or whether they are for mating or whether they are attracted to them i saw provide to be attracted to a friendly or body that is that is one way so uh they are able to determine all those things okay i think uh happened yeah yeah Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, families. Yeah. Gosh. Mm. Gosh. Mm. Because you can't send with experience. One So you can't get the vaccine. Oh, you can't get the vaccine. Yeah. Yeah. Uh-huh. Because Yeah?Yeah. Yeah. yeah build Yeah... Uh, Jeremy, Mm, Yeah. Iمنoh. everything diversity diversity diversity diversity Çok diversity diversity diversity diversity for diversity diversity diversity diversity DANA ANJ пока that 12 petit moins. 1,2,2. Wow. Wow. That's it. Because, o han, o han, tell me, do you say I mummy, ma, ma, ma worker Silah and you look at how somebody is. I'm gonna say I met Dave Satan. Yeah.甜, yeah you said. I do panier work. See you know B reform, according to season the way this time we have problems this is the time to eat time to prevent because mostly the problem especially this time especially this time i don like to stop Iclock and i'll call yeah but and and that's how marto m m m TB m n m m any and almost everything has not been a bodyover there is one secret about license also yeah i want to uh when she said i want to i want to you okay please is there any care okay i think is there any care for swine to do yes yes yes in fact they are not the care yeah yeah yeah but in fact we know sometimes you know they are prescribing and they are that oh i don't say to be the the best because we mostly prescribe guys based on what we see and what we observe every every so you lose a swine fever but said okay overnight Yeah, I have overeat 수가 here. They say that but I'm not sure if they will, Because you'll look at them, but you get any Energized, noticed too. Her name is Anupagu turmeric, because of the trainings, and what I kind find out is that an animal can't come out with the artificial peel that's what I don't want them to say. I just want to ask you. One of the things you've learned, it's deaf, so- not deaf. affected the respiratory system of the pig you know now viral disease now most of the time no we don't really have a direct cure for viral diseases we are in the day uh want to mean cure viral disease you have to uh you have to put preventive measures saying yes yeah there's nothing you can do so internet saying yes you have to prevent instead of trying to kill you to make you know into no rather you put in preventive measures and your can't wait spray obey spray or friend the answer now they want about no making sure what is infected the whole place and all my clean when your foot bath fine before community normal conno mobile moversana who prevented this from occurring but in your super i'm sorry there's nothing you can do they will all die and no but you and only comma uh swine on when i say all the all the animals too it depends on the the type of disease say a viral disease so i say i say uh anthrax for example uh then you can't do anything regardless of the animal now go deal with say a bacterial disease another or disease circulatory or direct cop isfield only one but after virus this is what you said next time because vaccination is a preventive measure a measure vaccination is very very important because what they want to panic an infection and or feel free if they will just todayended you see they ha on Okay. Okay. If. Maybe . why can't i neither why can't i Sorry Where is the student I tell code Nick Life My Don't Stop.aborando poa neda poa neda luca There is something going on. There is something going on. There is something going on. There is something going on. There is something going on. Sometimes, you can see the body. You can see the body. You can see the body. You can see the body. You can see the body. If you have a body. You can see it. You can see it. I don't know. especially that's one thing on the market right now one one crime amount for a committee to just to make money uh oh yeah that must be much radia uh i mean you said francis are very dear for the others and pan and mr felix wall and it's always a wonderful thing to be on the platform and there is going to be a platform of a tree and punchin one oh one vice versa a brush a punchin uh uh dealer and the other bianney oh hey networks Mmm 5. opportunity mount series in education is that here let me be from day one and um may 21 in here yeah mmm Talk about being... we behave Sauber leftover we say we observe we ask so our question they can win our collegeív the in my homeland, and I am pants shots. Nobody did. Little on me these days. hardware is wired, so when we were there, I made short affordable art jewelry, in my life. So I gave college lessons to supportorem You just keep going there. You can't do it. I have to listen to the horse. I don't want him there anymore. Let's have friends. My girlfriend will look at him. But I and I tell him I don't know if he's眼idos but others. What's wrong do you want him to say? Then you look over three and up. And in terms of a In truth, you will shepherd him's sheep in aßen hardly ever feel protective. It's in a bad way not to protect. This is notখ this year, what yes yeah ours yes persecution Yeah, he becomes my elder. Speak good. H Yeah. Yeah. no totally 문 The same thing that I apply to I play music it's thankers and especially about theape yodbah from 30 minutes business opportunity investment business opportunity investment business opportunity investment and ever who we are why we are diligent what take you from there Mr. Francis I'm going to ask my question oh but we should keep learning we should keep learning it is also football I'm not over I've got 40 years but he keeps training as I say he keeps training and you know we should keep learning we should keep learning we should stay focused we should we should love what we are doing like let's have passion what we are doing we should also bring to ourselves we can we can make it we can make it Inshallah okay so subscribe I'm not sure it was subscribe like video let's share video say Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. paying thousands. Nya miya do my Friday business opportunity investment. Next week, Tuesday, Mr. Francis si bababe tuasso. Nya miya shiramo. Share my honest video na yentuasso. Share video no. Ite de bacho e unbezo da pa wate de spinfo ni na. At yost.