Planting tomatoes horizontally
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OHJ21_5l0pQ
Howto & Style
 You have no doubt heard that it is possible to lay a tomato plant down at the time of planting. Well, here are the reasons and my method. The reasons are quite simple. Your tomato plant will be much more vigorous and less demanding in water. To succeed with this method, I advise you to choose a tomato plant of at least 20 semipersmetus. If it is even taller, that will be even better. My tip a few days before, I lay the tomato plant down after watering it well so that naturally the top stands up. Before planting your tomato plant, refine the soil to a depth of 15 to 20 semipers. Fertilize the soil with mature compost at a rate of one shovelful per tomato plant. In this fine soil, dig a small trench 15 semipers deep. So now we will move on to the nettles. When picking nettles, always be very careful that there are no aphids or ladybug larvae. And these nettles, you chop them at the bottom of the hole. Cover three semipers of fine soil over the nettles. Water the bottom of the trench before planting. Remove the leaves and suckers from the stem that will be buried. In principle, leaves are never buried underground. The base of the tomato plant is laid at the bottom of the trench. Insert a stake at the level of the head and wrap this same head in the spiral. And we finish the planting by covering the stem with fine soil. And above all, make sure to slide our substrate under this same stem to prevent any breakage. So, the rooting of the tomato plant will occur on this buried stem. So, at the level of the leaves and where I removed the suckers. So, we can always run out of water or have a long period of drought. It is useful to shape a basin lengthwise in the direction of the stem. Since we have some nettle stems left, we will use them as mulch and water one to two liters of water into this same basin. After a rather generous watering, I advise you not to water your tomato plant anymore. You will let it fend for itself. It is up to its roots to seek out the moisture.