How to Improve Pasture Productivity Easily: Overseeding the Red Field
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OI0AidLkBSo
Education
 How do we improve the quality of and the productivity of our pastures on our farms without spending a lot of money? I'm Rob from Dattle Family Farms and productivity is money on a farm. However, productivity can also cost a lot of money. I'm standing in what we call a red field. The red field is a 50 acre pasture that my dad had converted from a cotton field probably 30 years or so ago. It has a good stand of Kentucky 31 fescue, which is an endophyte infested fescue, which helps it survive drought and disease pressure and many other things. However, it also can reduce animal performance, especially early in the growing season. So one of the options people often talk about in terms of increasing the productivity of pastures is tearing up what's there and planting more productive foragers. And that is an option indeed. There are types of fescue that have endophytes that do not negatively affect animal performance. However, for us tearing up this pasture and replanting more could easily cost 150 or closer to $250 per acre to do that. If you're starting from scratch, there are some other ways that you can increase the carbon content of your soil by growing cover crops and doing some other things. Check out another video that we've just published as well about how to improve pasture quickly with regenerative farming and cover crops. In this video, though, I want to show you how we increased the productivity of this pasture by eliminating fertilizers and stopping herbicide sprays as well. That saves us roughly 40 to 50 dollars per acre per year in direct costs. And we still get the same, if not better, production out of this pasture. The implementation of rotational grazing is one of the best things people can do to increase the productivity and the profitability of their pastures. Greg Judy does an outstanding job in a lot of his videos in showing people how to do that. But essentially what you're doing is you're taking a pasture, you're letting the grass grow up into a vegetative state where it's pretty tall, it's got a lot of value in it, you graze it real hard and then you move the livestock off of it, let it rest and regrow, but don't let it go to seed again. There you're grazing the grass at its most productive stage nutritionally. It's producing a lot more biomass, the animals are getting more nutrition off of it, and finally you're letting the grass regrow and it does a world of a lot of good. When my dad set up this red field after he planted it, he was brilliant in that he divided it into six individual paddocks. What that means is, is we can easily move cows from one paddock to the next, to the next, to the next, and they can be in there for a week at a time and then there's allowed five weeks of regrowth before the cows come back to the pasture. It's very easy, the moves take less than five minutes, it's a matter of opening gates and it's very, very effective. However, if we want to increase the productivity of the pastures even more, is there something that we can do? The answer to that is yes and it's by overseeding the existing pasture with more productive forages. Four years ago, I began overseeding the red field here with Durana clover. It's a white clover, it's an improved variety of white Dutch clover, it spreads by stylings, it handles overgrazing really well, and most importantly, it grows taller than your standard white Dutch clovers. According to the Mississippi State Extension Office, a 30 to 40 percent stand of white Dutch clover in a pasture can fix up to 100 to 150 pounds of nitrogen per acre. Our stand here varies in each paddock between 10 and 40 percent, but I would assume that our pasture here is probably closer to a 15 to 20, maybe 25 percent stand of white clover. About three years ago though, I began including some chicory into overseeding the Durana clover as well. And so you can see areas where the chicory is growing. We've also helped the dock and the plantain and the dandelion grow as well. Dock, plantain and dandelion are high protein feeds. They have deeper tap roots that go down 20, 30, 40 inches deep, so they mine nutrients from deeper in the soil. They're low lignin, low cellulose feeds, but they have higher protein and higher mineral contents. We don't want pure stands of any of those, but we do want the dock and the plantain and the chicory and the dandelion to be scattered around the pastures. The cows can eat it, but they'll also share nutrients with the fescue and with the clover as well. With the addition of the clover in the pasture, we've increased the level of protein value for the forage, but we've also been able to fix nitrogen into the soil so we don't have to fertilize. Just as important though, animal performance does not suffer as much because the clover, the dandelion, the dock, the plantain, and the chicory, they help counteract that negative effect that the fescue has on the cattle. So then what happens is we can get rather than an eighth of a pound a day or a pound a day of weight gain per animal, we can actually get two or even three pounds of weight gain per day per animal. On this 50 acre field last year, we had the cattle coming over winter. We had more cows out here than we should have. We had about a hundred head of cows and calves and the two bulls and we brought them into the pasture. We rotated them around and those animals gained probably three pounds of weight per animal per day. It was amazing how well they performed in the five or six weeks that we were grazing this pasture. Then we moved them to other parts of the farm where we have more summer grasses growing. We let the fescue grow up. We grazed it again in the middle of the summer and then we moved the cows off. So when we have the cows in the red field here, it's a 50 acre field divided into six paddocks, we rotate them from paddock to paddock to paddock over the course of six, eight, ten, normally about 12 weeks in the early spring and summer. And the livestock just do really, really well. Now this year, unfortunately, we have not had as much fescue production. December 22nd, we had some record low temperatures down to seven degrees that actually killed the fescue. It did start growing back, but what happened is rather than the fescue starting off growing at two or three inches, it had to start back from zero. And so it really delayed the production of the forages and the grasses in this red field by three, maybe even four weeks. In about a week, we'll move the cows onto the red field and they'll begin grazing and it'll do really well. The Dorana white clover seed is $150 for a 25 pound bag. You feed it four pounds to the acre. So it costs roughly $20 per acre to overseed the pasture. I overseeded it in January, February. They call it frost seeding. But what we did is we grazed it really, really hard, then moved the cattle off, put the clover seed down. And then as the clover and the fescue started growing, we grazed it really hard again. If you overgraze the pasture, the clover grows faster than the grass. And if you don't overgraze the pasture, the grass will get a jump start on the clover. You can actually manage towards grass growth or clover growth. Now, I don't recommend growing more than a 50% stand of clover. We shoot for a 20 to 40% stand of clover in each paddock. And what that allows is it allows the nitrogen fixation, the additional protein in the forage, but we don't have to worry about bloat for the livestock either. We don't have to feed livestock bloating blocks or anything like that. In addition to improving animal performance on the pasture, the biggest thing that we did is we help eliminate a world of a lot of costs. Urea is the most common form of nitrogen available for us. It's 46% nitrogen and it costs about $400 to $500 a ton. At 46% nitrogen, one ton of urea is going to fertilize this 50 acre pasture here with 18 pounds of nitrogen per acre. If we purchase two tons of urea, that'll get us about 36 pounds of nitrogen per acre. And if we purchase three tons of urea, that's about 52 pounds of nitrogen per acre. Mississippi State recommends 52 pounds of nitrogen per acre in the fall. That's our extension office. Other recommendations are much higher, 60 to 80 to even 100 pounds of nitrogen per acre in a fescue pasture. The point being, if we applied that of the 52 pounds of nitrogen per acre that is recommended to us by our extension office, that would cost us 25 to 30 dollars per acre to apply the nitrogen. Add another minimum of 10 dollars a year to spray that with herbicide to keep out the weeds like the chicory and the dock and the plantain, which actually help the livestock. Then we have costs that are 50 dollars an acre just to produce it. Rather than spending that 50 dollars per year on spring and fertilizing our pastures, so what we did is we spent a one-time cost of 20 to 25 dollars per acre to broadcast the clover seed onto the ground. We added a little bit of of chicory as well and in that process we spent 25 dollars per acre once for an investment that would pay for itself year after year after year by not spending money on the nitrogen fertilizer. But most importantly, and this is the thing that's the most importantly, the livestock performed two, three, even four times as well on that legume fescue pasture than they do on just the grass pasture alone. So my question for you is how can you improve your pasture by overseeding higher quality forages? It may be by adding just a little bit of dock or chicory or plantain. It may be that you can add some legumes that will reseed themselves year after year after year, but there's probably something that you can do to improve the quality of your pasture, increase its productivity, and reduce your cost year after year after year. So let me know what you've done to increase the productivity of your pastures. Have you tried rotational grazing? Have you introduced additional forages like legumes or forbs into your grass pastures that help as well? Let me know in the comments and until next time it's Rob from Datto Family Farms signing off. Take care and have a great day.