HOW TO GET MAX POINTS (14K) SOLO IN SUMMER HARVEST EVENT IN GROW A GARDEN
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OI97TMPh97M
Gaming
 What is going on everybody welcome back to a new video. Alright in today's video I'm gonna be showing you guys the method I've been using to get max points every single time by yourself. And yes I'm talking about 14,000 points all solo. I mean if you want you could do it with your friends to make it easier but it's definitely possible to do it solo the entire way. But this method could be known already I just do it because it was pretty obvious. Now the main reason why people go for 14,000 points to get the prismatic rewards. Now when it comes to 14,000 points I'm gonna be honest I don't think it's worth going that high because I feel like most people target moon cats, moon mango seeds, the nice seed pack, the summer seed pack, stuff like that. Especially the nice seed pack because I still need that moon blossom. So I feel like going for 11,000 points is all you need to get the best rewards. But of course if you're new to grow a garden you need that amber lily you could get it with this method. And the method I'm gonna be using in this video is gonna be the tomato method. I mean there could be a proper name for it but I call it that because you mainly use tomatoes. And there's actually a really good reason why you should use tomatoes for the entire event. Now when it comes to the event every time you deposit a fruit each one gives you a different points. So for example the common one gives you one point, the uncommon gives you two points, the rare one gives you three points. Legendary gives you four, mythical five, divine six points, and prismatic seven. And I'm gonna be honest I've been buying the seeds from the seed shop every single day and trying to get prismatic, divine, and mythical is pretty rare. And even if you get those seeds for them to regrow on the plant it takes so long. And using common and uncommon fruit is not really worth it so you're left with the rare and legendary fruits. Now here's the problem with the legendary seeds. It takes forever for them to grow and regrow on the plant. So now you're left with the obvious choice the rare seeds. And the best one for this case is gonna be the tomato seed. Now if you want you could use a cauliflower seed the only issue is the tomato seed spawns every single time. And also keep in mind when you get gold or rainbow mutations you get even more points. And I'm pretty sure for every crop you get two or three more points something like that. So as you can see those could definitely stack up with the tomato seeds. However it does not stop there you need one more thing. In order to make this even smoother you need to buy a giant ant. Now the main reason why we want the giant ant is because of the passive ability it has. The giant ant has a 10% chance harvested fruits are duplicate. And rare fruits have lower chance of being duplicate as well. Now I'm gonna be honest I did test out the giant ant with the sugar apple. And I believe only one got duplicate out of like maybe nine I think. So as you can see it's not really worth it with the high level seeds. However with the tomato crops it's gonna be just perfect for it. And of course whenever something good is happening something bad also has to happen. So in order to get the giant ant as a pet you have to hatch it from a bug egg. And in order to buy a bug egg you have to wait for it to spawn at the pet egg stand. And it gets even worse it costs 50 milliseconds to buy one. But some good news about the bug egg it's pretty common to get a giant egg at a 30% chance. And it does take a very long time for the bug egg to spawn at a 3% chance for it to be in stock. So if you really can't wait for the giant ant you could trade for it. But now we're gonna have another problem with the giant ant. Once this method spreads out even more it's gonna be more in demand. And once it becomes more in demand it's gonna be more expensive. Now to make this method really smooth you're gonna have to have like maybe three to five giant ants. The more giant ants you have the easier the method is gonna be for you. But I'm gonna say one more time only use giant ants if you want 14,000 points. If you only care about things below 11,000 points you don't need giant ants. And either way you could do it solo. But let's say for example you can't get giant ants you could get one other friend to do this with you. So if you want 14,000 points and you don't have giant ants you're gonna need another person. But let's say for example you're like I don't really like the easter egg seed or the amber lily seed I could do it solo. Then it's definitely possible. I feel like most people only care about the seed packs just like me. And now you guys are most likely asking how many tomato seeds do I need for this method to work. And I'm gonna be honest I tried 100 tomato seeds it did not work. I even tried 200 and also did not work. And then I tried 300 and it didn't work as well until I hit 400. I believe 400 is actually the sweet spot for this method. And the main reason why you need so many tomatoes is because when you collect them they disappear really fast. And for them to grow back they do take some time but not that long. So by the time you collect 200 tomatoes and you go deposit it when you come back they should be kind of fully grown back. But if they're not because you have 400 you could get from another pile. Now let's say for example you don't have 400 tomato seeds you could try one more thing. When planting tomato seeds you have to make sure they're really close to each other. And once they're put together if you guys want you could use a godly sprinkler, advanced sprinkler, or basic sprinkler. You see for me I would use the advanced sprinkler or basic sprinkler to save some money. But if you have money to throw around you could use a godly sprinkler to make it even faster. And with that combination you don't really need that many tomato seeds like I'm using. So I feel like at most you could get away with like 250 tomato seeds. But I'm telling you right now you need at least 200 because you collect them really fast. And if you slow down by a lot you are not going to be hitting 14,000 points anytime soon. But I think at that point you could hit 8,000 which is pretty much all you need in my opinion. But of course like I said before it really depends which rewards you want. And when you're planting tomato seeds make sure you plant them at the front of your garden because you want to minimize how much time you lose while harvesting and while walking to the harvest event. And also one more thing about walking you could use a grey mouse to help you walk even faster. The grey mouse has two passive abilities. It gains 500 bonus experience every 10 minutes and also increases the player's moving speed by 10%. So with the grey mouse it can help you move even faster. But I'm going to be honest even for me I never used a grey mouse with this method and I still got 14,000 points. So if you already have it you could use it but if you don't have it it's not really necessary. But if you do want to trade for it it's definitely going to be very easy to get. It used to be the best way to farm XP for a pet but now it's a starfish. Oh and that's why before I forget to mention it you're going to need a lot of pet slots for the giant ants. And if you're really not sure how to get max pet slots really fast I made a video very recently. So if you want check that out for some advice to help you speed up that process. And also one more thing about your garden. If you guys have for example pineapple, lacroix, sugar apple, stuff like that you could also use it while doing the event. Because for example the sugar apple gives you 7 points every time you deposit it. And if you want to with that combination you could plant every single seed in your garden. So let's say for example you collect the sugar apple, the lacroix and then you run out. You could go to the tomato section and collect it and go deposit it. For this method if you want to you could use all the tomatoes. It's going to work either way. But just make sure in the first 2-3 plots on the right side closest to the harvest event you have tomatoes. You just want to reduce the amount of walking you could do in your garden while the event is going on. And one thing I love about this method you get so many rainbow and golden mutations. Because keep in mind within 5 minutes you're farming 600 tomatoes. So whenever they start growing back you have a high chance of getting golden and rainbow mutations. And when they do come back with those mutations you get even more points in the long run. So tomatoes are definitely the way to go. But if you want to collect 300 or 400 tomato seeds it's definitely going to take you at least 10 to 15 hours. But once you get those tomato seeds you're going to be getting so many points instantly. But I think now I'm going to show you guys the method of me doing it in full speed. day-old I We can make the sure lower and lower-back on him np! Our base is to set hisідal Thisindłość by which Tomaszcuno Kabou- Nej DARRAGEE Hazel Outro Music Outro Music Outro Music Outro Music Outro Music Outro Music Outro Music