How To - Tractor Land Plane - Gravel Road Maintenance
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OIed2lzfQ-g
Howto & Style
 Hi, I'm Ted from Everything Attachments and we're today with the Land Leveler and what this device is used for. I've never had the luxury of using one of these because I've always kept a box blade around and it's not the perfect tool for a road, but it gets the job done. If you've got a really long road, this is probably the perfect tool for what you're going to be using and if you just want to level. This doesn't have a large containment area like a box blade does. It's got two cutting edges running on diagonal lines here. So what it's going to do, it's going to help it cut and then it's going to let it filter over real easy without letting it build up a lot. So it's going to take the crown out of the road. It's going to keep it within the area here unlike a scrape blade which would let it spread to the side and then you'd need to regather it. So this is really designed for keeping up roads and just leveling in general, not really moving dirt because it doesn't have a back on it like a box blade. So we've never really used this so we're going to be trying it just like you were. We'll probably have to do a few adjustments. This particular road runs from the end of my paved road to my neighbor here. There's been a lot of rock put over this over the years. We haven't touched it in probably about five years. My neighbor drives an 18-wheel roller for Advance Auto and so he's in and out of here all the time. So this road is probably about as packed as it's going to get. So we're going to make a few passes here with our Operator Peanut and just see what it does. Make a few final adjustments and see if we can't make this a perfectly level road. And then if we need to we'll put a fine coat over the top of it when we're done. We'll just see what we end up with. So as hard as this road is, it's probably going to take a couple of passes. And we're going to turn up a little bit of dirt into it but there's a lot of base gravel here that before it's over with this road should look pretty good. It's just now starting to fill up the front edge. As it gets heavier it's going to work better. So we've adjusted the top length just a little bit longer to make the back edge work a little harder. We're getting into a rougher area that does have some riffraff rock up underneath this so we may hit some of that. There's some area where the sand's washed across the gravel. So we're going to blend it just a little bit but then we're going to hope to end up with everything with a good top dress coat of just rock before it's over with. So you can see it's taking out the center which is the highest point and then this rock is just simply so hard that it's going to take a few passes to get this loosened up. I think we could make the back just a little bit lower and it would be better. Alright let's try that. I think we could make the back just a little bit lower and it would be better. Alright let's try that. Alright let's try that. And as you can see where it's pulling up the most on the left hand side is where the center of the crown of the road would be from the traffic that goes through here. Now it's got it leveled out all the way over to the right and it's starting to leave a level place. Now he's up on the edge of the dirt a little bit leaving a low spot but before it's over we're going to end up with that high spot pushing all the way over and leaving a nice edge on this road. This is a seven foot greater. This is about the right size for this tractor because it's just about six feet on the tractor. So even though we didn't loosen this up with a box blade with the Scarfires it's really starting to level up nice with just a couple extra passes and I probably wouldn't use the Scarfires just to loosen it up deeper than you need to go. Now that I see how good this land leveler's worked. I knew it would pull out a few of those big rocks that are in here that we started with about 15 years ago. And this is going to be a perfectly flat road without having to put your rippers down on your box blade and loosen up a lot deeper than you want to go. So next time it gets a really hard rain it won't wash like it would if we put the rippers down on a box blade and went six or eight inches deep. It's starting to rain here in North Carolina pretty good. It's about nine o'clock in the morning. It's about two o'clock in the morning. It's about two o'clock in the morning. It's about 90 degrees and rain. So at least we don't have to deal with the dust. We're out here in the rain while Kevin gets to stay under the canopy. So I think everybody in the videos really likes Peanut as the operator. He's become kind of a big fan of the water. So I think everybody in the videos really likes Peanut as the operator. He's become kind of famous around my place. People like to come in and see Peanut. Oh yeah that's filling it right in just making it smooth as it can be. Alright I'd say that's got it pretty good. When the rain washes the mud off this gray granite that's under here this is going to look pretty good. We'll put a really light dress coat on it. It'll look like a brand new road again. And we didn't have to use the scar fires on a ripper to rip it up like Peanut thought we would just because it's been down so long and packed so hard. This will probably be our last pass. This is about five or six passes on a road that hadn't been touched in over five years. It looks kind of muddy now but as soon as this rain rinses off all this gray granite rock it's going to look gray again. It's actually starting to get wet enough that it's starting to clump up and mat up a little bit so it's definitely going to work the best in a dry condition. It's just a dry condition. It's just a dry condition. It's just a dry condition. Thermo Anderson posterولgebensofgy one Therefore it's a dry condition, it's we use Dariannενสิ for once. It's a dry condition.урg森 form or see if every one of our other 那 karaoke barriamb fantastic caosrgy for once. I appreciate your the water at the awakening for your entire family!