Agriculture Science and technology
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oJ5VSV3sZpQ
Entertainment
 Mr. Becker here, checking in with you all again about some of the Ag Science classes. There's kind of three areas in Ag Science. There's the metals and Ag Mechanics and Fabrication with Mr. Ruff. There's woodshop and plant science and horticulture that I do most of. And then there's another branch around the Ag Science and Ag Leadership. And so those classes, the first one is Introduction to Agriculture. And it's an overview of the Oregon economic picture of what agriculture is going on. It's also a taste of all the different classes within the Ag Science program. And then from there, we have an every other year option of either vet science or food science. And those classes, the vet science is a great one for someone who's thinking about that they might want to do some kind of animal science at college. It's a college level class. The food science gets you your food handler's card, which is great for being able to get a job in the community. We do a bunch of cooking and prepping the food gardens at school. And then the animal science class is all about how to take care of the different farm animals that we would have here. Sheep, pigs, goats, chickens, steers, horses. Getting a background in how to be able to have those animals maybe at your house or in the life that you want to have in the future. You'd get a pretty good understanding of how to take care of those things and what kind of needs they have. And make sure you'd understand before you get started in that what you would need. So that'd be a great way to go there. And then the final part of that would be our Ag Leadership class. And the Ag Leadership class are the leaders that run our FFA program and set our schedule and our budget and run our activities for the year for our FFA chapter and are super involved in planning county fair and fundraisers and all kinds of events that we do here. So if you like being part of that stuff, there's lots of ways to be involved with FFA and Ag Science at HRV. We'd love to have you. Thanks.