Seed Talk #123 - Planning Your Growing Season with a Wall Calendar
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Okr4S8Rrqlg
Howto & Style
 Hey friends, welcome back to another Seed Talk episode. We're so glad you're here. It's Lisa and Lane dropping in. Hey, Lane. Hey, Lisa. Are you ready to do some planning today? Oh, it's my favorite. Isn't that the best part, right? I love it. Planning stage. This is the easiest part when you think about the work that has to be put in to make the dream come true. So yeah, loving this part. Me too. Do the planning and then all you have to do is execute it. Right. Sounds so easy. It does sound so easy. This is what gets us all in trouble. Yeah. And friends, remember that this podcast is made possible by thegardenersworkshop.com where you will find everything that you hear Lane and I mention from seeds, tools, supplies, books, courses, and tons of free resources, y'all. And you'll find it all over at thegardenersworkshop.com. All right, Lane, let's jump in. Okay, Lisa. So what we're going to be talking about today is planning out your entire growing season using a big giant wall calendar. And so we're going to walk through different steps, helping you to fill out your calendar. So you're ready for the entire year. And the first step is going to be that you do need to get a big wall calendar. And I wanted to ask you, Lisa, what is your preferred wall calendar? And why do you like to do it this way? Why do you do this instead of a spreadsheet or instead of maybe a smaller calendar, like a planner? Sure. So I've used a, I tried out a lot of different methods until we landed on this. This is one of the gifts, right, of doing the same thing year after year for over 27 years. This calendar, which is an at-a-glance jumbo calendar, wall calendar. And this means that each day is two inches by four inches, which means there's a lot of room to write. So we still do have a spreadsheet on this farm, but that's not what we use for planning. And there's, I mean, whatever works for every individual person. But if you are an aspiring or are a flower farmer, chances are it's going to involve more than you. And if it's not already, it will in the future. And you might as well start building the platform to stand on, right? So I started using this large wall calendar because I can write the pertinent information that's needed and everybody involved can see it. It hangs on the inside of our building door where the bathroom's in here. I mean, this is where everybody is coming and going all day and everybody can look at that calendar. That means that if we're out in the field and I say, oh my goodness, look, it's only, you know, May 1st. And look, there's a handful of zinnias that we get to cut today. Unbelievable. Somebody run in and just jot that down on the Saturday slot because what was different about this year? You know, we don't write, we don't journal on this calendar. It is a fact calendar. And so everybody can see what seeds need to be started, what it's just an at a glance, literally what the name of the calendar is. And for us, you know, having this jumbo size is essential for a flower farm. And I have found even when we were in high production, it all fits. But if you're a home gardener, you know, the same concept smaller could be okay. But again, it's how big the day blocks are that is all about it for me. So nothing wrong with spreadsheets. They just have a different use for us. But for running my farm, literally in July, when we're all in heat exhaustion, overwhelmed, hot, tired, I can walk to this calendar and it tells me what needs to happen. And that's the whole point behind this calendar. Yeah, I just, I do like how simple it is. It's accessible to everyone. You don't have to be tech savvy to be able to add something to it. Do you like to write in pencil, Lisa, so that you can change things? Or is it everything is a fact on there so you don't mind writing in pen? Good question. No, pencils rule. And because things change and not that we, so for instance, if I put my seed starting calendar on here and Bobo ends up starting them a week later than they were written on the calendar, we don't erase and move all that stuff. She'll just put the correct date next to it. But sometimes the wrong variety gets written down. I mean, facts that we look back on these calendars all the time from year to year. So those types of things, factual things really sometimes need to be changed. And writing in pencil, we actually have a pencil on a string that hangs from the spiral that holds the calendar together. That is such a good idea. Yeah, pencils rule. And this calendar is just a really great data collection tool. And as we walk through how to fill this out, you're going to see that the hardest time you'll have filling it out is just the first year. After that, you can kind of take some of the dates that you've already calculated and just transcribe them over to your new calendar, right? Yes. I mean, is that not really true. And we of course have the resources to get you to get your first dates clear, no guesswork, how to figure that out. And then all the future years, it's just the fun. I mean, I love I have from 2011 to 2024. And to have them all out on a table and to be able to flip them all to January, all to February and see what were we doing. Oh my goodness, look, totally forgot that we used to do that. Or we we never have grown this since way back when, you know, I mean, it's like a good memory walk, for sure. And even just looking back at Oh, this was the first harvest of the year for zinnias or sunflowers, especially if you're doing maybe your early sunflower experiments. That's something that's really interesting to look back on and see. Yes, for sure. All right, moving on to step number two. Now we're going to get into the actual filling out of the calendar. So the first thing that is a good idea to do is to just mark your first and last expected frost dates based on historical averages. You want to talk about that, Lisa? So literally, this is the most important step because everything revolves around this. And this is not you guessing, wondering, this is historical averages based on information that is available on the internet. You need to search your date with that question, first date, you know, first frost date, and gain that information. None of us know exactly when it's truly going to be your first or last frost, but you have to create a jumping off point. And that's what historical averages do for you. It gives you a place to jump off. And the people, I mean, we talk to these people all the time, don't we, Lane, that are just so hyper-focused on having the exact date. Nobody has the exact date and you don't need the exact date. So that is the first piece of information. And then all of my counting is pivoted from those dates. All right. Step number three, is going to be to go ahead and input or mark your first warm season planting date and then any successive planting dates for your warm season. So Lisa, how would you calculate your first warm season planting date, the date you would be getting things in the ground? So we always push the envelope because we're flower farmers and we take steps. And the steps like this image, if somebody's listening to this on a podcast, you really should go over to YouTube and watch the slideshow that Lane has put together. We're looking at marigolds planted into the black biodegradable film. It's black side up. You can see row cover on the ground next to it. There are hoops installed that are just not visible here. So we typically plan to have our first planting, which is not our biggest planting because we know it's always a gamble, to have transplants ready to go in the ground right at or they're close of that last spring frost. But they're planted into beds with that black film up that has been made typically for several weeks. So maybe those beds are a little bit warmer because they're raised. They're covered in black. All of that helps to warm the soil. We plant them and we immediately cover them if the days are not too hot yet, but the nights are still dipping cool. That's the problem. It's nighttime temperatures. So we plant our first planting right at the last spring frost with protection. And then we, about two weeks later, we do our first really big planting of warm season tender annual transplants. Again, following the same rule into black film. And if we don't do it, but if you are going to direct sow warm season annuals, you need to wait even later because if the soil is still cool, those seeds are not going to pop. And if they don't pop, guess what does pop? All of the weed seeds that are out there and you lose the war before the first battles even fought, right? Yeah. So you tend to plan on getting your first warm season planting of transplants in the ground around your last expected frost date. What if someone wants to be a little more conservative? Because like you mentioned, you're planting into a bed that has biodegradable film with the black side up on it to help warm it and then covering with row cover at that point. What if someone wants to be a little more conservative? Maybe they're just planting into a garden setting? Sure. So that would be two weeks generally after your last expected frost date. And I'll tell you here, back when we used to have a local garden writer that wrote the column for our newspaper, who was a wonderful gardener and gave great advice. And so our last frost date is, like I mentioned, mid-April typically. She would always use Mother's Day as the official time for us to consider planting outdoors with no reserves, you know, for tomatoes and for zinnias, for all the warm season stuff. Because when you plant early into conditions that don't make your plants happy, it actually delays them. So you actually are more delayed than if you just waited until the conditions became more of what they expect and want to grow better. So once you determine for yourself when you want to get that first warm season planting in the ground, then you can decide when you want to put some succession. So maybe you want to plant sunflowers every week. You can go ahead and then mark that. Or you want to plant other things every four weeks. You can go ahead and mark that in. Right. You know, because the real joy of doing that, for many people, having two successions of warm beyond the sunflowers is really helpful to say, okay, I've got my first one in. Now, like early, not early summer, but between early summer and mid summer to say, I'm going to start another round of transplants of most of the same plants I've already planted. But perhaps I'm going to do different colors. I'm going to be thinking late summer, you know, Southwestern colors or thinking fall colors and thinking just to have that option to not like, for instance, in zinnias, deep red, deep reds are really cool. And wine, both of those are really cool colors. We don't even start thinking about adding them to our seed starting list until the end of the season. And so successions not only protects you from losing flowers for reasons, but it also gives you more diversity and choices. Yes, exactly. Okay. So we're still just talking about planting dates for now. We'll get to seed starting dates later. So we're going to move on to step number four, and this is going to be regarding cool season, hardy annual planting dates. So the next step is to mark your fall and very early spring, cool season planting windows, and then any successions you might want to do there. Lisa, can you talk about how people can find their fall and very early spring cool season planting windows? Sure. And so I think the massive amount of confusion about growing cool season, hardy annuals is it's not cut and dry. So cool season, hardy annuals based on your winter hardiness zone and the winter hardiness zone of the particular cool season, hardy annual can give you one or two planting windows. The first one is in fall, which is what most people are really excited about. And so fall is considered the planting time is six to eight weeks before that first expected fall frost, that historic date. You count back six to eight weeks and that's when you would be putting transplants or direct seeding into the ground because there's many cool season, hardy annuals that prefer actually to be planted during that window. The second window is where we're heading right now, right? Which is right around the corner, which is what we call very early spring. And that is six to eight weeks before your last spring frost. And I typically only plant transplants, then it's just too cold outside for seeds to actually sprout. And so everybody, regardless of the winter hardiness zone of a plant, can plant in very early spring. So in fall, you're only planting things that are winter hardy in your winter hardiness zone. In very early spring, anyone can plant any of the flowers regardless of their hardiness zones. Lisa, do you tend to mark the entire window on your calendar, the six to eight week window? Do you mark at six weeks and eight weeks before your first or last expected frost? Or do you just pick one? Yeah, no, we mark the window. I put the, you know, eight week mark and the six week mark so that everybody here on the farm knows this is the optimal, you know, target date. And then you could also go ahead and mark after very early spring, for example, any successions you might want to do. So if you want to do multiple successions of Sweet William or Buplurum or Feverview. Yeah. And I know that we've done an episode about that, but yes, for sure, there are some cool flowers that in my experience do pretty okay most years doing a succession and they're an in-demand crop. So it's really worth doing that. And yeah, so for sure you need to mark those things also. Yeah. And the episode Lisa was referring to is actually episode 75, cool flower succession planting in very early spring and beyond. So I definitely recommend listening to that if you want to hear more about succession planting with cool flowers. Okay, now we're going to move on to step number five, which is one other planting date category. And that's just for any of these other crops that don't fit into our typical cool season or warm season planting timelines. So that could be biennials such as Electron Sweet William. It could be something like ornamental kale that you're planning on harvesting in the fall, those types of things. So how would you go about marking those, Lisa? Sure. So yeah, we as flower farmers like to have the ornamental kale, to harvest in the fall. So that means it's got to have time to grow up. And typically for us, that's mid-season and about it's literally all of this y'all is about counting, right? It's about counting, sitting down the calendar is not glamorous at all, is looking up what is the days to bloom. That's from seed to bloom. And then you have to give some time for that to actually happen. And so for the ornamental kale, we just take that date and go to when we want to harvest it, which is typically the month of November, end of October, a little bit for wiggle room, but throughout November and count back. And that'll give you that date. Those plants, those biennials that require vernalization, I only grow a couple of those. It's super duplex and electron. Those are sweet Williams. Those are huge cash crops in the cut flower world. And florists absolutely love this bicolored sweet William, which is really hard to get in this, the regular hardy annual varieties. And so they need, I like to get them in the ground in late summer, which is not their happiest time because it's still warm outside. But what you're aiming to do is to get them in the ground and established so that they can receive their cold period. But they don't want that cold period while they're busy just getting established, which is why you don't just plant them with your other sweet Williams. So we start them both all of what I just mentioned in mid July, which is when we are not thinking about starting seeds because we're hot, tired and exhausted. And so having that marked on your calendar and you can back up when you should do that by looking up the dates or reviewing how to count those dates if you need that help. So your biennial target planting windows for when to get those transplants in the ground is oftentimes late summer or early fall? Right. Early September, the month of September, I would say earlier than later. Yes. Perfect. Okay. So now we're going to get into the actual seed starting dates. So now step six is going to be determine your seed starting dates based on the planting dates. And then you can also list which seeds you want to start on those dates and how many of each seed. Yes. So the planting dates are the dates you'd either be sowing directly outdoors or getting your transplants in the ground. So now we need to figure out when to start the seeds for those transplants. Yeah. So let's say you have your first warm season planting date in and you know that a certain warm season flower is going to take you approximately four weeks from sowing to transplant. So you could count back four weeks from your first warm season planting date in your calendar and then write down that you're going to be starting that particular flower, which types you're starting, which varieties, which colors, and how many. Yeah. It's that. This is where the real help of the calendar comes, especially if you're a flower farmer. And you know, we start oftentimes, well, we did started all flowers by color and everybody else that was starting seeds needed to know what variety, what color, how many, how am I starting them? So that is where we would sit down and say, all right, it's like, okay, I am going to just plant warm season stuff when I can just go outside and plant it and not worry about it. So let's just say that's the first of May. You're going to count back three to four weeks. That's when you're going to start zinnias, right? And that you simply do that. And if you don't know how long it takes to grow a seed, I always kind of lean on the side of starting a little bit later than starting a little bit early. Because let me just advise you that starting earlier and having those plants grow a full, beautiful, they're full size. They look so great, but guess what? It's still two weeks before you can even think about growing them, planting them outside. It just, they're going to grow and get really ugly and overgrown really quickly. And there's nothing you can really do. I mean, there's things you can do to stall plants. But the key is always to start on time or a little bit later than earlier when you're starting seeds. Yeah. And so the number of weeks before your planting date that you need to start the seed is going to depend on the exact type of seed you're starting, whether you're using soil blocks or trees, your growing conditions, there's a lot of stuff that depends on. So that's going to be up to you to determine. Although back in episode 25, we did go over in detail seed starting and transplant timing. So you might want to go back and listen to that episode if you want to hear more about how to figure out that timing for yourself. Yeah. I just also wanted to say this is where the big squares on that at a glance calendar really come in handy because you might have listed a bunch of different lines of things you're starting all on the same day. And you need the room to be able to list the flower type, the variety, the number you're starting. So should I tell them what I use the days on the calendar for? This would be a great place to do it. Okay. So we don't follow the actual days on the calendar. So always on Sundays, that's where we put what our weekly sunflower succession is. Because we started planting all still pro cuts, but adding different colors in. So they would need to know which colors to start each week. So Sundays are always sunflowers. So that's easy, right? I can say somebody out in the field, hey, go in and start the sunflowers. It's on the Sunday of this week, right? Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday are the days that were always designated to the seeds that are being started that week. Because just as you mentioned, I mean, when you get to where we're starting zinnias and coxcomb and plumes, celosia plumes, I mean, we're starting so many varieties and so many different colors that there's no way they would all fit, right? So we would just, and Thursday was the bonus day. If that week's seeds needed to run into Thursday, that would be fine. Or it would just be an empty day that whatever you used it for whatever you needed. Friday was typically kind of a chore date and things that you might need to remember. Things that next year you're not going to remember, you know? And then Saturday was always like a first harvest. That was like happy, you know, good stuff coming out of the garden. And what this does by sticking to this kind of pattern, you can turn back quickly to April and May and see when the first zinnias were, when the first coxcomb were, when the first snapdragons were, or when the Iceland poppies bloomed. I mean, you get a phone call, ring, ring, right? Hello, I heard about you. We have a farmer's market and we would love for you to come. When do you start having flowers? Let me get back to you. You go straight to your calendar and you can look and see. You don't want to go maybe when you just have Iceland poppies because you have nothing else unless you plan a ton. But you can see that first week that you have a little bit of a selection. You could be safe to say, I could start, you know, mid-May or May 1st. Or do you know what I mean? It's like, it's so useful to have simple to read. You are not writing sentences on this, friends. I'm telling you, that's what screws us all up. I mean, you can't refer back when it's just written with too much information. This is the triage level and it is a tool that I couldn't live without. Yeah, it really does become one of the most valuable tools on your farm, Lisa. The calendar from this year and past years, it just is such a great data collection tool and a reference tool for the future. Lisa, do you ever note anything like an adjustment? Like, let's say you were experimenting with your sunflowers, planting them early and you realized, oh, this really didn't work that well. Do you ever note anything like that on there? So that would be kind of, that's what could go either on Thursday as a general note or on Friday, actually. And the things that we want to remember, it's like, oh, guess what? We had this late 10-day hard frost, 20 degrees, and it actually smoked all the sunflowers that were early birds this year. You know, that might be helpful to know, but it also might be helpful to know, like this year, and I did not write it on our calendar yet, we had our late sunflowers, you know, we always plant longer than we think we can, and our sunflowers, full height in bud, took like 34 degree nights, and they still looked undamaged, undamaged the foliage. And that's just so, that's what fuels our fire to do that again next year, and to even push the envelope even more. So yeah, putting those types of tidbits, you know, really is very, very helpful. And the other thing that on the list of the seeds that we're starting for here on my farm, some, you know, we do a lot of different seed starting methods, primarily it's soil blocking, but what size block are they supposed to use, as well as when do we use plug trays? And by the number of seeds that I write on the calendar to start, clues them in. If it's 100 or 240, Bobo knows that that's the small block on either our extra large green tray or cafeteria tray. If it says 12 or 16 is divisible by four, and it's a big seed, that means it's the two inch block, you know. The mini 27, that says, okay, that's a big seed, that's sweet peas, you know, because we want more of them. And it's just easier to make the mini 27 than it is to make two inch blocks multiple times. So the number of the seeds to start, as well as for us, it's an indicator of which method and tray they're supposed to use. And for sunflowers, the number is always divisible by 128, which is the size plug tray that we use. Yeah. And that's great because then you don't have to list separately which size soil blocker or tray to use. It's just already included in there. That's perfect. All right. So after doing steps one through six, you should have all your frost dates filled in, at least your expected ones. Of course, they rarely line up with what actually happens, but we have to start somewhere. All your planting dates, your potential successions, and then your seed starting dates. So hopefully if you have this calendar filled in, you will be all set for the next growing season. And then you can just add things in, notes like Lisa mentioned, chores, first harvest dates as the season progresses. And friends, if, and it happens, if the at a glance has sold out for the year you're trying to buy it in, that just means that you need to put it on your phone of when do I think I buy mine, try to get mine in fall. You know, they're usually on there available. Because as more and more people are starting to do this, it just is, it's becoming more in demand. So get your calendar earlier than later for sure. Great tip. Yeah. All right. Well, that does it for this episode on helping to fill out a calendar to help plan your growing season. I really hope you found that helpful. I'll include links in the show notes to some of the other episodes that we referenced during this that could also be helpful to you. Thank you so much for joining us again. Please be sure to follow or subscribe wherever you're watching or listening. And remember, we love your likes and comments over on YouTube, and we appreciate all of your reviews in a podcast app as well. So thank you so much for joining us. And friends, just remember, I did not figure out the Cool Season Hardy Annual Method in one season, or two seasons, or even three seasons. It just takes practice. And filling out this calendar, start with the bare basics and do it step by step. And it's all about those dates and counting back. And all of a sudden, the light bulb will go off for you. And so don't get overwhelmed. Baby steps, baby bites. That's how you eat an elephant, y'all. One little bite at a time. I guess we don't really want to eat an elephant, but it's big. They're just giant is all I wanted to say. So friends, until we meet again, remember you can find more from us over at thegardenersworkshop.com. And folks, our course, Cool Flowers Seed to Harvest is available. Lane built this course based on all the questions that we have been fielding for years and address them. Lane, tell us a little bit about the course. Well, it takes you through not only all the background of figuring out your seed starting dates, your planting dates, all the basic Cool Flower concepts. And then it goes right through 36 different Cool Season Hardy annuals and shows you with actual video demonstrations, how to sow, grow, and harvest them. And you can access it from an app on your phone, from anywhere with an internet connection. You can access it on a computer, whatever's easiest for you. And it's just the handiest tool to have. And if you do get the app on your phone, you can just have it in your back pocket at all times as a reference point, whether you're starting a seed and you can't remember whether you're supposed to cover it or not, or you don't remember how you're supposed to space them out in the field, or when you actually go to harvest it. It's so helpful to pull up the video and you can just see right in the field, Lisa, they're harvesting and showing you the proper stage and what's too early and too late. And if you think a picture's worth a thousand words, videos are just unbelievable. Yes. All right, friends, here's to a new year of gardening and farming. Bye.