Botanical Pesticides
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oL7WNCXKI6I
Howto & Style
 This season we've looked at a variety of organic pest management strategies, including biological control, microbial insecticides, and metal-based fungicides. Today we're going to look at another group of organic pesticides, the botanical insecticides. Now the botanical indicates that these are pesticides derived from botany, from plants, and some common examples of these are very familiar to us, neem, rotenone, and pyrethrum. These all come from different types of plants. Now it's important to note that there's sort of a misconception that just because it's plant-derived, people feel that it's very safe to use, but these products are indeed designed to kill insects, so they do have some toxicity and we want to respect that. Some of them, like rotenone, that's a chemical derived from certain plant roots, including the jicama, that one is used not only to kill insects but also fish, so of course you want to be very careful using it around watersheds. Some of the botanical insecticides have mammalian toxicity. A good example would be nicotine. There's nicotine products used as insecticides, but again we want to be careful of these. So it's important to remember that these are pesticides and we need to treat them respectfully, make sure that we protect ourselves, use them responsibly, and follow the recommended application rates. Let's take a look at a few of these. One of the really common botanical insecticides that's used is neem, usually in the form of neem oil. Neem is a chemical that's extracted from the Azotharacta indica tree. This is a tropical tree. Neem has been used for thousands of years, both medicinally and as an insecticide. Now most of the time we apply it as an oil. It inhibits adult feeding and it kills the immature stages of insects. But this year a new product has hit the market and it is a water soluble formulation of neem. And this is interesting because in the past we've had to do foliar applications of the oil. But now it's water soluble we have the option of a soil drent because it does have systemic qualities as well. It can also be injected as a tree injection by arborists. So it gives us a little bit more options. It also has a higher concentration of the active ingredient as a dyractin. And so that might have the potential of bringing prices down eventually. The next group I want to look at is pyrethrums. The active ingredient pyrethrum is derived from the flower heads of chrysanthemum cinerarifolium and chrysanthemum coccinium. And these are grown mainly in Kenya and Ecuador. Now the chemical pyrethrum has a strong knock down effect on many different insects. And it doesn't always kill them so often times it's combined with rotenone or other chemicals to kind of provide a one-two punch. We'll get the knock down with the pyrethrum and more of the killing effect with some oils or other chemicals. So you want to look for different formulations of these. But you want to pay attention and make sure that both the chemicals are registered organic if you're going to be using a mixed product. There's also a synthetic form of pyrethrum. These are called pyrethroids. And these are not registered organic. So that's another thing you want to pay close attention to if you're using a product that has pyrethrum versus pyrethroid. We also see a number of different oils like garlic or hot pepper sprays. And these have variable efficacy. So you want to, certainly you're welcome to try them. But you want to do a little research to see what types of insects they tend to be most effective against. Botanical insecticides tend to break down quickly in the environment. And this can be a benefit because they don't linger. But from a control standpoint it means that we'll have to make reapplications to maintain efficacy. Now I did mention there's some non-target effects on fish and mammals with certain chemicals. So we want to pay careful attention to that when we're selecting products. We also want to look at non-target effects on beneficial insects. Botanical insecticides tend to be broad spectrum. Some of them are more target specific. So choose carefully particularly if you're going to be using them along with biological control or other forms of management. But overall botanical insecticides do provide a good option as a part of an integrated pest management system. Botanical insecticides do provide a good option as a part of an insecticide system.