Ep:278 ROB RANT: PLANT-BASED AGRICULTURE IS KILLING OUR PLANET
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oN2TcYMwi0Y
People & Blogs
 Hi folks, this is Dr. Rob Syvers. I am the carb addiction doc, but a while ago, years ago, I used to do a little segment called Rob's Rant, and you're going to see that right now. Okay, this is a Rob rant because I am sick, you can put the F word in there, and tired of being on the defensive for eating animals. I'm mostly carnivore, I enjoy eating it, and I'm proud of doing that. However, I get all these plant-based people coming and telling me how safe the planet is and how important it is to save the planet, and their plants are kumbaya. So here we go, I'm going on the offensive against the plant-based bullshit. Whoopsie, calm down, I'm going to have a coronary. Against the plant-based bullshit diatribe. Let's talk saving the planet, let's talk climate change. Okay, we take acres and acres and acres of natural fauna and flora, you see how upset I am? Fauna and flora, and we plow it up, and we do monoculture, we do monoculture from Monsanto's with a single cultivar that doesn't even belong in that region. And it's all been genetically engineered. The first, the very first form of processed foods is when we hybridize plants to form the crap that we eat right now. A carrot isn't a carrot. The corn we eat isn't corn that God and nature made. Nothing is the way nature made it. So what we're doing is we're introducing these tons and tons of plants into our environment, big swaths of land that have been plowed up. Where the hell are the buffalo going to range? The buffalo that I like to eat, where are they going to live on the prairies that have been plowed up by everybody from Kansas to Nebraska to California? You're planting your hybridized plants that God and nature wouldn't recognize. And then what happens is those plants go wild. So everybody in Florida here is complaining about the pythons and the reptiles that have been released and all the foreign fish. Yeah, there's foreign fish that have come into our lands. But guess what? All over the face of America, all over the face of the earth, there's a whole bunch of hybridized exogenous plants that are now covering that landscape. How can that not be bad for the planet or good for the planet? Secondly, in order to get your stupid plants to survive, what do you do? You have to throw tons of pesticides and tons of fertilizer on there. And then that runs off into the rivers, the my rivers that I want clean for my fish. Oh, we don't eat fish. We don't kill animals. That pesticide that you're putting on your plants is killing way more, way more, way more animals. Oh, but slugs aren't animals. Oh, but insects aren't animals. Hey God, he'll tell you they're all the same. But you're poisoning my fish. You're poisoning my rivers. And when that river runs out into the sea, you're poisoning my rivers. You are poisoning this planet with your Montessaro hybridized crap. And you're poisoning my planet with your pesticides. And you're poisoning my planet with your herbicides and with your fertilizers. And then you're trying to poison my mind by telling me, holier than thou, what you're eating is good for you. Well, screw you. I'm going to eat my animals. And my animals are good for this planet. And the animals I eat have been around for a very long time. And they contribute to a decrease in planet temperature. They are healthy for this planet. They restore the ecosystem. They work within the ecosystem. They do not need a destroyed prairie. When a buffalo herd runs around on a prairie, that is natural fauna. That is natural land. My cows can graze on natural land. My chickens can lay their eggs outside. Animals are saving the planet, not your bloody plants. So go back. Go backwards. Go back to the jungles. Decrease your brain size. Go backwards in evolution. I am human. I eat animals. And I'm proud. Leave comments. I am the carb addiction doc. Ooh, that felt good.