Agroecology: Principles and Practices #CH25SP #swayamprabha
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ooGV2TFoXvU
Education
 Swoyam Prabha Digital India Educated India Dear students, you are welcome in this class. The topic of this lecture is Agroecology Principles. We will try to understand the concepts and meaning of agroecology and learn the principles and practices of agroecology. What are the fundamental practices that farmers do in the field? We will see those also. Agroecology, the science of applying ecological concepts and principles to the design and management of sustainable agroecosystem. Agroecosystem is normally the agricultural system where farmers grow the crops. Biodiversity, the variety and variability among living organisms and the environment in which they occur. The richness of the mix of elements and the connections between those elements that sustain the system as a whole. Biomass, the total weight of living or recently living matter derived from animal animals and plants often referring to plant biomass which includes all the components of plants that is stem, leaves, bark, flowers, etcetera. Carrying capacity represents the point of balance between reproduction potential and environmental resistance and environmental resistance that is the maximum population of a species that a specific ecosystem can support indefinitely without deterioration of the character and quality of the resource. So, this is actually bearing capacity how long and how best an ecosystem can bear its inhabitant without destroying its own system. Agroecosystem and agricultural system understood as an ecosystem. Compact plantation, it includes plants, trees and shrubs planted in a regular and systematic manner. Plants, trees or shrubs forming an irregular pattern, but dense enough to permit data collection of area planted are also considered compact plantation. Consumer, an organism that ingest other organisms or their parts or products to obtain its food energy. Decomposer, a fungal or bacterial organism that obtain obtains its nutrients and food energy by breaking down dead organic and faecal matter and absorbing some of its nutrients. These decomposers are very very useful in any ecosystem particularly in agroecosystem. Disturbance, an event or short term process that alters a community or ecosystem by changing the relative population levels of at least some of the component species. Diversity, the number or variety of species in a location community ecosystem or agroecosystem. Domestication, the process of altering through directed selection the genetic makeup of a species. So, as to increase the species usefulness to humans. When a wild species can is brought from its wild inhabited to a to by the human being and then it it is directly selected selections are made. This process is your domestication. Dominant species in an ecosystem, the species with the greatest impact on both the biotic and abiotic component components of a its community in an ecosystem. Then see ecosystem, a natural entity populated by a definable group of organisms interacting with a definable abiding environment. Habitat, the place or type of site where species and communities normally live or grow usually characterized by a relatively uniform portion of the physical features or by consistent plant forms. Sustainable development, the management and conservation of the natural resource base and the orientation of the technological and institutional change in such a manner as to ensure the attainment and continued satisfaction of human needs for present and future generations. Now, the actual subject of agroecology starts what is agroecology? Many times people consider that organic agriculture is agroecology, but that is not true. It is much and far above or far away from the organic agriculture. Organic agriculture can be a part of agroecology, but agroecology is a very big and vast subject which covers starting from a small bacteria up to the politicians up to the people. We will see how is the scope of this subject. So, agroecology is a holistic and integrated approach that simultaneously apply ecological and social concept. Remember the social concepts are combined with ecology and principles of the design and management of sustainable agriculture and food systems. So, you need to under understand the major key words of this definition. One is ecological principles are applied means you have artificial system which is your agroecosystem and there you want to apply certain ecological cycles or natural cycle of nutrient management, insect pest management, then it is application of ecological principles to agroecosystem or agronomy or agro production. Other is social concepts, here the people who are doing it who are working in the field they are also part of agroecology and people who are dependent upon this for example, consumers consumers are dependent they also need food. So, those who are involved with the food systems even traders are involved with the food system all are included in agroecology. It seeks to optimize the interaction between plants, animals, humans and the environment while also addressing the need for social equitable food systems within which people can exercise choice over what they eat and how and where it is produced. So, production of food as well as consumption of food. So, all aspects of food system are also part of agroecology. Agroecology is concurrently a science, a set of practices and a social movement and has evolved as a concept over recent decades to expand it in its scope from a focus and fields and farms to encompass the entirely entirety of agriculture and food system. So, this subject have evolved over decades and it took time. So, initially it was simple production. Then several dimensions were added and and the last one could be the addition of the policy, addition of the government of a state or government of a country is also part of agroecology. You will see later how it is. Then it now represent a transdisciplinary field that includes ecological, socio-cultural, technological, economic and political dimensions of food systems from production to consumption. So, it is no longer possible to look at food, livelihoods, health and the management of natural resources separately. Everything is to be looked in a holistic way. Embracing systems. So, system thinking is there. So, thinking through holistic approaches is needed to address these complex and interdependent challenges. The sustainable agriculture and food systems is at the heart of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development. This is United Nations agenda now, by 2030 you need to achieve certain goals which stresses the urgent need to take concerted action and pursue policies directed at transformational change. Ending poverty and achieving zero hunger. This is the top priority of the United Nations. So, ending poverty and achieving zero hunger while ensuring inclusive growth, growth of everyone. Inclusive growth means it is very justifiable growth, everybody in the system is included in the benefits. So, that is inclusive growth and sustainably managing the planet's natural resources all in the context of climate change and biodiversity loss. We know ensuing climatic changes are also affecting agriculture and food systems. So, they are also part of agroecology with only be possible through holistic and integrated approaches that respect human rights. So, thus agroecology represent an overarching and comprehensive system framework to guide public policies towards sustainable agriculture and food systems. It enhances public efficiency by fostering integrated and inter ministerial policy design and implementation, bringing together agriculture and food sectors that are often disaggregated. Now, agroecology wants to combine the whole chain. It actively engages different stakeholders through interdisciplinary mechanism which which favour a responsible and transparent governance of resources. Now, why agroecology is important? Particularly these climate changes and population pressure and degradation of natural resources. So, sustainability and supply of food these are the major issues. Can we solve this problem by following agroecology framework that is the question. So, now, Vagel and co-workers 2014, they identified certain problems and there are long list of problems in the world and you cannot count them on fingers. So, first you see the forecasted increase in world population of up to 9.1 billion in 2015 according to United Nations 2009 will require a major effort to increase food production for an additional 2 billion people compared today. So, this regarding allocation problem overproduction and food waste in some world regions this would mean that about 30 percent of more food is needed at global level. So, many times in many countries developed countries particularly in US many people think that wastage of food is their right and they feel proud in leaving lot of food on the plate. So, also some post harvest losses also happen which are avoidable many of them are avoidable. Thus, world agriculture is facing major challenges in producing this additional food. In addition, there has been increasing demand in the last decades to not only produce larger quantities, but to also achieve development towards sustainable agriculture where production is simultaneously environmentally environmentally environmentally environmentally environmentally friendly, socially fair and economically beneficial. It is generally thought that if you want to produce that much of food then you have to exploit natural resources and there will be unequal distribution of the food and so many problems will be there. To overcome such issue you need certain system that can solve that problem and agroecology is perhaps the answer. So, it will be necessary to develop agricultural food production practices for all types of agriculture be it conventional integrated or organic agriculture. There are variety of variants of agriculture in the world. In one country also lot of variables are there in production systems. So, there could be conventional farming or other parts of agriculture. So, there could be conventional farming or some people call it industrial farming. Industrial farming is very very dangerous and in that case you can use artificially producing egg in from the poultry buds and they are just machines in machines you are producing egg is it good. So, similarly pigs are raised just to just to slaughter them just as a food item. So, this we need to think. Now, let us see what are the 10 elements of agroecological agroecology framework. This is actually scope of agroecology or what is the subject of agroecology it deals with that and food and agriculture organization has very well done this job they have identified 10 elements after struggling for many years having many symposia meeting and finally, they concluded this subject in 10 parts they call it 10 elements of agroecology framework. So, FAO developed the 10 elements of agroecology framework to assist countries in fostering transformative change and India is very active member of United Nations as well as food and agriculture organization. Many of you know that food and agriculture organization is international umbrella organization for food and agriculture in the world and which is part of United Nations and its headquarters is in Rome, Italy. So, these 10 elements are interlinked and they are interdependent and represent a simplified but holistic way to think about reality. They are interlinked and interdependent means the whole chain of events is there and it is holistic system. They describe essential components, key interactions, emergent properties and desired enabling conditions in agroecological transitions towards sustainable agriculture and food systems. The 10 elements are useful analytical tool to facilitate decision making by practitioners and other stakeholders when planning, implementing, managing and evaluating agroecological transitions. Now, you see the top 10 elements of agroecology and like diversity, co-creation and sharing knowledge, synergies, efficiency, recycling, resilience, human and social values, culture and food traditions, responsible governance, circular and solidarity economy. So, there are 10 elements you can see and all are important and let us see in brief about them what do they mean, why to understand them and how they are important in agroecology or how they are component of agroecology. Diversity is number one element. Diversification is key to agroecological transitions to ensure food security and nutrition while conserving, protecting and enhancing natural resources. diversity is number one element. This diversification is key to success in all aspects of agroecology. So, agroecological systems are highly diverse. From a biological perspective, agroecological systems utilize optimize the diversity of species and genetic resources in different ways. For example, agroforestry systems organize crops organisms, shrubs, shrubs, livestock and trees see the diversity of different heights and shapes at different levels of the strata increasing vertical diversity. If you have variety of trees in the agroforestry system, then they will harbor or they will give shelter to variety of birds, variety of insects, variety of animals and they all are interdependent. Like intercroping combines complementary species to increase spatial diversity means diversity in space. Crop rotations often including legumes increase temporal diversity. Temporal means diversity in time because you are rotating the crop. Trop layoffs are only the crop. Crop livestock systems rely on the crop. a crop livestock systems rely on the diversity of local breeds, adapted to specific environment. That is why Government of India is giving lot of emphasis on local cows over the desi cows. Because they have been found to tolerate bit higher temperature they can survive and they can also survive this with less fodder. So, there are certain qualities in local cows also and people are breeding ah them. In the aquatic world traditional fish polyculture farming, integrated multi-trophic aquaculture or rotational co-fish systems follow the same principles to maximize diversity. Variety of systems are there across the world and Asia you have greater diversity. Increasing biodiversity contributes to a range of production, socioeconomic, nutrition and environmental benefits. So, the number of benefits are there and I hope most of the students seeing this lecture know the value of diversity, why we need it and why it is important. So, by planning and managing diversity, agroecological approaches enhance the provisioning of ecosystem services including pollination and soil health upon which agricultural production depends. A pollination is very very important part and if you have diversity then pollinators will also have diversity. For example, honey bee if they do not get flowers round the year and round the year if you do not have plant they will they will they will suffer these honey bees will suffer. So, for pollinators also you need diversity because they increase the yields of the crop. Diversification can increase productivity and resource use absency by optimizing biomass and water harvesting this is another dimension. Number two element of agroecology is co-creation and sharing of knowledge. Let us involve all the people all the stakeholders starting from production up to food system. So, co-creation means creating the things together and sharing of the knowledge. You do not think that farmer does not know anything and he is just under having under knowledge, do not do not behave like this because they also got some experience, they also got knowledge. So, thing is that we need to interpret that knowledge in scientific way so that we can integrate their knowledge with our knowledge or modern knowledge. So, we will have rich dividants in the end. So, agroecology agriculture innovations respond better to local challenges when they are co-created through participatory process. So, participation of individuals or people should be there. Agroecology depends on context specific knowledge, it does not offer fixed prescription rather agroecological practices are tailored to fit the environmental, social, economic, cultural and political context. The co-creation and sharing of knowledge plays a central role in the process of developing and implementing agroecological innovations to address challenges across food systems including adaptation to climate change. Through the co-creation process agroecology blends traditional and indigenous knowledge, the local knowledge of the people and global scientific knowledge. Let us marry these two and get the best thing out of it. Producers knowledge of agricultural biodiversity and management experience for specific context as well as their knowledge related to markets and institutions are absolutely central in this process. Promoting participatory processes and institutional innovations that build mutual trust enables the co-creation and sharing of knowledge. The third element is synergies. Building synergies enhances key functions across food system supporting production and multiple services. Synergies means let us complement each other, let let us help each other, do not go antagonistic way go synergistic way increase each others efficiency. So, that is the meaning of synergies. So, agroecology pays careful attention to the design of diversified systems that selectively combine annual and perennial crops, livestock and aquatic animals. Let us everyone live freely animals, trees, soils, water and other components on farms and agricultural landscapes to enhance synergies in the context of an increasingly changing climate. Building synergies in food system delivers multiple benefits by optimizing biological synergies. Biological synergies means synergies or cooperation between the living things. Agroecological practices enhance ecological functions of these biological organisms leading to greater resource use, absency and resilience. The microbes which are living in soil and above the soil, they are not always harmful, they are doing wonders, they are doing great service to all kind of ecosystem. But problem is that in our agroecosystem their population is going down slowly, particularly due to chemical farming or other issues. So, by in Asia for example, integrated rice system combine rice cultivation with generation of other products such as fish, duck and trees. So, if you take grow rice and you have water in East India it happens and you can you can raise your ducks or fish in them and these ducks and fish will not harm your rice rather they will benefit the rice. They can eat certain weeds of the rice plant and they can give their excreta which can act as a manure to the rice. So, system is they are helping each other actually. By maximizing synergies integrated rice systems significantly improve yield, dietary diversity, weed control, soil structure and fertility. There are so many benefits and indirect benefit here is that if you grow rice and fish together and people who are growing they will also eat fish. So, they will get a kind of balanced diet, they will get proteins, fats and and vitamins also from the fish. So, that way malnutrition can be overcome. While agroecological approaches strive to maximize synergies trade off also occur in natural and human systems. For example, the allocation of resource use or excess rights often involve trade offs. Balances are to be made. To promote synergies within the wider food system and best managed trade offs, agroecology emphasizes the importance of partnership, cooperation and responsible governance involving different actors at multiple scales. So, in the larger scale there are different scales, scale at the soil, scale at the plant level, scale at the weather level, scale at the people level, government level. There are many scales in the agroecology. Now, the fourth element of agroecology is efficiency. Efficiency of the resources improvement is necessary. Innovative agroecological practices produce more using less external resources. Efficiency in the simplest term is output divided by input. So, if you want to increase output there there may be two ways. One is that keep the input constant and go on increasing the output. Other way to increase the output or or you can do reduce the input and then the value efficiency will increase. So, efficiency can be increased. So, in this case ultimately if we are increasing the efficiency that means, we are saving the resources. So, increased resource use efficiency is an emergent property of agroecological systems that carefully plan and manage diversity to create synergies between different system components. For example, a key efficiency challenge is that less than 50 percent of nitrogen fertilizer nitrogen is utilized by the crop and 50 percent goes waste. So, if we can increase the efficiency to 60 or 70 percent, then we can save lot of fertilizer and not just fertilizer we will save the energy because production of fertilizer also require energy. So, that way we can improve the efficiency of the system. Agroecological systems improve the use of natural resources especially those that are abundant and free as solar radiation, atmospheric carbon and nitrogen. So, these are gift from the nature and we can use these resources. One way to measure the absency of integrated system is by using land equivalent ratio. I hope that you also understand what do we mean by land equivalent ratio. So, it is it LER compares the yields from growing two or more components that is crops, trees, animals together with yields from growing the same components in monoculture. So, LER can tell us the profitability of the system. The fifth element of agroecology framework is recycling. More recycling means agricultural production with lower economic and environmental costs. So, recycling also saves energy and it makes the best use of our resources, nothing is waste in this world. So, waste is a human concept it does not exist in natural ecosystem. Natural ecosystem really nothing is waste and if you think that it is a waste that could be a resource of for other. So, by imitating natural ecosystem we can copy, we can learn from the ecosystem human beings have learned lot of things from the ecosystem like how man made the aeroplane. He made the aeroplane by seeing a bird flying. So, he made aeroplane of similar structure. Likewise there are so many cycles so many things in the nature we can learn from nature and after learning that we can apply into the artificial systems or agroecosystem. So, that our system also comes closer to the natural system. So, by imitating natural ecosystem agroecological practices support biological processes that drive the recycling of nutrients, biomass and water within production systems, thereby increasing resource use efficiency and minimizing waste and pollution also. This natural cycle ecological cycle if we follow in agroecology then they can reduce the pollution. So, crop livestock systems promote recycling of organic materials, ah everybody knows it that you get dung from animals that can be used in agriculture or crop production or that dung can be used to produce the biogas. Similarly, the plants, plants that are grown on the manure can be used as a fodder plant. So, they will give fodder to the animal. So, it is dependence of each other and recycling delivers multiple benefits by closing cycles. So, there are two kind of cycle one is closed cycle other is open cycle. In open cycle you are losing the the resources and in closed cycle it is it is there is no loss of the resources they are within the home. So, in closed cycles are generally closed cycles are preferred. So, recycling delivers multiple benefits by closing cycles and reducing waste that translate into lower dependency on external resources increasing the autonomy of producers and reducing their vulnerability to market and climate shocks. The sixth element of agroecology is resilience. Resilience means you are you are a strong enough to tolerate or to bear any disturbance that is your simple dictionary meaning of resilience. So, it enhance resilience of people, communities and ecosystem means this is your tolerance, ecosystem is key to sustainable food and agricultural systems. So, diversified agroecological systems are more resilient more tolerant they have a greater capacity to recover from disturbance. If you give some disturbance to them they have the capacity to come back to the original position. However, we try to make them resistant you make disturbance there is no effect then this is resistant. However, it is not possible it is not that easy to to get it. So, recover from disturbances including extreme weather events drought floods or hurricanes they come nature gives us, but in the in the end we stand up. But if we follow agroecological approach then effect of this system will be less first thing. Secondly, the recovery time will decrease. So, and to resist pest and disease attack. By maintaining a functional balance agroecological systems are better able to resist pest and disease attack. They are better adapted to bear the biotic interference. Resilience continues. Agroecological approaches can equally enhance socio-economic resilience. Through diversification and integration producers here means growers or farmers producers reduce their vulnerability should a single crop livestock and species or other commodity fail. By reducing dependence on external inputs agroecology can reduce producers vulnerability to economic risk. Enhancing ecological and social socio-economic resilience go hand in hand after all humans are an integral part of ecosystem. Now, seventh element is human and social values. Protecting and improving rural livelihoods, equity and social being well being is essential for sustainable food and agricultural systems. Agroecology places a strong emphasis on human and social values such as dignity, equity, inclusion and justice all contributing to the improved livelihood dimensions of the sustainable development goals. These sustainable development goals are very very important each student should learn it because all governments are now focusing to achieve these sustainable development goals suggested by or proposed by United Nations. So, it puts the aspirations and needs of those who produce distribute and consume food at the heart of food systems. So, agroecology seeks to address gender inequalities by creating opportunities for women. Globally women make up almost half of the agricultural workforce, they are involved in dairies, they are involved in production or source of operation they are there. Mostly in in Asian countries also you will find women contributing to agriculture, but they also play a vital role in household food security. So, their job is to manage the household also ah dietary diversity and health as well as in conservation and sustainable use of biological at every stage of agriculture and food system women are there choice of food in the home what should be cooked today what what vegetables or what dal or system food we will have. So, women have role in the decisions of the food system also. Agroecology can help rural women in family farming, agriculture to develop higher levels of autonomy. You need to involve women at all the levels in agricultural production as well as food systems. So, agroecology is based on a different way of agricultural production that is knowledge ah knowledge intensive, environmental friendly, socially responsible, innovative and which depends on skilled labour. Meanwhile rural youth around the world possess energy, creativity and a desire to positively change their world what they need to support and opportunity. So, energy and enthusiasm of the youth should be directed in right direction so that we get the best out of them. As a bottom of bottom of grass roots paradigm for sustainable rural development, agroecology empowers people to become their own agents of change their own master. Now, eighth element of agroecology is culture and food tradition. So, you cannot separate the culture from food traditions and they are part of agroecology and in the in the name of modernity we should not forget our cultures because the food choice also depend upon the culture. Some people people like x kind of food, some religion says y kind of food lot of issues are there in the world. So, by supporting healthy, diversified and culturally appropriate diets agroecology contributes to food security and nutritional nutrition while maintaining the health of ecosystems. Agriculture and food are more components of human heritage because since the very first day human came on earth he looked for agriculture, he looked for food. Hence, culture and food traditions play a central role in society and in shaping human behaviour. Agroecology seeks to cultivate a healthy relationship between people and food. As people and ecosystem have evolved together, cultural practices and indigenous and traditional knowledge offer a wealth of experience that that can inspire agroecological solutions. So, for example, in India we have lot of traditional knowledge related to food. If you have any stomach problem our our senior our parents will say ok take some curd, take some dahi. So, what are solution of illness sickness through the food? So, for example, India is home to estimated 50,000 indigenous varieties of rice, bred over centuries for their specific taste, nutrition and pest resistance properties and their adaptability to a range of conditions. So, India has greatest diversity of rice in the world having 50,000 different varieties in in our country starting from black rice, red rice, yellow rice, what not basmati rice, kala jeera, kala namak so many things are there I know no one can count, but they are many times they are related to religion also. In India some Hindus they put rice rolly on your forehead, the food is your religion. So, it is involved in religion also. When marriages happen the brother throw some rice above his sister in the during the marriage ceremony we use this. So, culinary traditions are built around these different varieties making use of their different properties. Responsible governance government have to be responsible also. So, agroecology forces the government to be part of it. So, sustainable food and agriculture requires responsible and effective effective governance mechanism at different scales. Now, India we have food distribution system what is that? It is just ensuring food security to the people through the government, but government need need to check whether it is effective, whether it is having good efficiency, are people satisfied with this public distribution system or not. So, government is also part of this agroecology. So, agroecology calls for responsible and effective governance to support the transition to sustainable food and agricultural systems. Transparent, accountable and inclusive governance. Transparency should be there, accountability of government should be there and inclusive government, governance mechanism means everybody should be stakeholder or necessary to create an enabling environment that supports producers to transform their systems following agroecological concepts and practices. Successful examples include school feeding and public procurement programs. Government have some schemes in India also, midday scheme what is that? This is also agroecology. So, market regulations allowing for branding of differentiated agroecological produce and subsidies and incentives for ecosystem services. Territorial landscape and community level governance such as traditional and customary governance models is also extremely important to foster cooperation between different stakeholders, maximizing synergies while reducing or managing trade-offs. The last element is circular and solidarity economy. It reconnects producers and consumers and provides innovative solutions for living within our planetary boundaries, while ensuring the social foundation for inclusive and sustainable development. Agroecology seeks to reconnect producers and consumers through a circular and solidarity economy that prioritizes local markets and supports local economic development by creating a virtuous cycles. Agroecological approaches promote fair solutions based on local needs, resources and capacities creating more equitable sustainable markets. Strengthening short food circuits can increase the incomes of food producers while maintaining a fair price for consumer. This is important. In agrology agroecology it is utmost important that neither consumer is overcharged and not producer is underpaid. He also get good money, consumer also get his products in optimum money. Only one third of the food produced is lost or wasted failing to contribute to food security and nutrition while exacerbating pressure on natural. So, lot of wastage is there already discussed and in some country there is fine. If you leave your food on the plate you have to pay some money for that you should remember. So, how much important it is the energy used to produce food that is lost or wasted is approximately 10 percent of the world's total energy consumption while the food waste footprint is equivalent to 3.5 gigaton carbon dioxide of greenhouse gas emissions per year. Now, see these 10 elements are interactive in nature. So, they interact with each other and if you are interested you can go to food and agriculture organization. They have oneexclusive website dedicated for agroecology and I must also thank food and agriculture organization. Because resources of all the resources of food and agriculture organization are free to world public. So, anybody can use them for teaching purpose for learning purpose. So, therefore, I also thank food and agriculture organization for allowing this literature. Now, see the agroecology and the sustainable development goals. The United Nations has already fixed 17 sustainable development goals and how agroecology can contribute to achieve those goals we are going to discuss. So, the 2030 agenda for sustainable development calls for a new agricultural approach to ensure sufficient safe and nutritious food respecting human rights. FAO members have a common vision for sustainable food and agriculture and agroecology is a key to response to guide the sustainable transformation means the message in brief is that you have 17 sustainable development goals and how they can be achieved they can be achieved by several means, several methods, several approaches and strategies by the governments, but agroecology also has a role to achieve part of these goals. It is not that agroecology will achieve all the 17 goals, but it will help to achieve certain goals or part of certain goals. Now, first goal of SDG sustainable development goal this is the acronym for sustainable development goal. So, I will refer sometime SDG. So, first is no poverty and poverty in all its form everywhere no poor person should be there and no in no form. So, family farming, herding and artisanal fisheries and aquaculture that is integrated farming system provide livelihood for many of the world's rural poor. Agroecological approaches support food producers in reducing production cost translating into greater income, economic and stability and resilience. So, you can see how this agroecology can contribute to goal number 1. Goal number 2 is zero hunger. End hunger achieve food security and improve nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture. So, agroecological systems optimize the use of local and renewable resources and knowledge. This enables agricultural production systems to harness ecosystem benefits such as pest control, pollination, soil health and erosion control while ensuring productivity. So, it is explained how agroecology can contribute in reducing the hunger or in zero hunger. Number 3 goal is ensure healthy lives and promote well being for all at all ages. It is not that younger children are not given good food or old age people are not cared. So, by minimizing the use of potentially harmful agrochemical inputs, agroecology reduces agriculture's negative effect on both human and environmental health. The fourth goal is quality education. Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all. So, many times what happen if you are rich people your children will go to the best of the school and if you are poor that will go to the poorest school. So, ecology is against this. Let us have some equity quality education in equitable way. So, agroecology depends on knowledge adapted to local context by food producers and other actors. It delivers relevant and practical knowledge through empowering peer to peer systems enhanced with the knowledge of formal scientists. Fifth goal is gender equality. Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls. This is very important goal. Women have a central role in agroecology. They are often custodians of healthy and traditional diets and are key players in sustainable food systems from the home to the field to the market beyond. Agroecology has a potential to advance woman's right, self determination and autonomy. Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all. So, this is clean water and sanitation goal. Agroecology prevents surface water and ground water pollution and contamination. It promotes practices that are efficient in water use enhances soil water retention. So, it helps in the clean water this agroecology. The next goal is affordable and clean energy. Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all. The eighth one is decent work and economic growth. Promote sustained inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all. Agroecological approaches create new decent rural employment opportunities for youth and women. So, the increased resilience of agroecological production systems helps to better maintain existing jobs supporting rural livelihood and communities. Ninth goal is innovation and infrastructure. Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation. Tenth one is reduced inequalities. Reduce inequality within and among countries. Agroecology gives priority to those to the most marginalized and vulnerable sectors of society rural women, youth, family farmers and indigenous people. Agroecology has the potential to address the inequality of the food system by providing locally based solutions to specific contexts and territories. The eleventh goal is sustainable cities and communities. Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable. By promoting a territorial approach to development, agroecology encourages the development of integrated plants for urban and rural development, with urban areas recognizing the multiple benefits that sustainable landscapes can provide them and reconnecting producers and consumers to shorten value chains and increase resilience. Number twelve is responsible consumption and production. Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns. Agroecology enhances diversification to achieve sustainable and healthy diets and food and nutrition and security. Agroecological food systems have proven in many local contexts to be exemplary providers of high quality, nutritious, healthy and adequate diets, preserving and promoting local food traditions. So, therefore, this twelfth goal also have can be partly met by agroecology. Agroecology can play a very important role in achieving this goal also. Next is thirteen goal is climate action. So, take urgent action to combat climate change and its impact. Agroecology helps mitigate against climate change and its impacts. It reduces the emission of greenhouse gases by promoting integrated production systems that are less dependent on energy from fossil fuels and that store and and fix carbon. So, it is very environment friendly system agroecology. By promoting diversified and integrated production system, agroecology facilitate resilience and adaptation to climate change. Next is fourteen number life below water. So, conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development. In aquatic systems, the ecosystem approach to fisheries EAF, ecosystem approach to fisheries and to aquaculture EAA, demonstrate an agroecological approach. The ecosystem approach ensures that the management of living resources applies an integrated approach to fisheries within meaningful boundaries, taking into account knowledge and uncertainties in the biotic, abiotic and human components. The fifteenth goal is life on land. Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forest, combat desertification and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss. So, agroecology works with local communities, food producers and other actors to prevent land degradation and restore degraded areas. Agroecology helps to conserve and sustainably use and value the biodiversity and ecosystem services that underpin food production. Next sixteenth goal is peace, justice and strong institutions. Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels. Agroecology supports strong and inclusive producers organizations that enable the sharing and co-creation of knowledge, solidarity, representation of their concerns at policy level and responsible governance. 17th and last sustainable development goal is strengthen the means of this is partnership for goals, strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development. Scaling of agroecology calls for increased cooperation between productive sectors, social actors and countries. Now, see the consolidated set of 13 agroecology principles. So, these were actually elements or kind of principles or components of agroecology of that can be helpful to achieve the sustainable development goals. And you can see some consolidated or agroecological principles, they are compiled by Vagel and co-workers in 2020 from France. So, you can see here they propose first principle is recycling, recycling is very very necessary. Preferentially use local renewable resources and close up as far as possible resource cycles of nutrients and biomass should be closed cycle as far as possible. Input reduction reduce or eliminate dependency on the purchase input, let us produce them right on the farm. Soil health secure and enhance the soil health and functioning for improved plant growth particularly by managing organic matter and enhancing the biological diversity in the soil. Animal health ensure animal health and welfare maintain and enhance biodiversity of species. Number 6 principle of agroecology synergy, enhance positive ecological interaction, synergy, integration and complementarity among the elements of agroecosystem may be animals, crops, trees, soil and water. Economic diversification diversify on farm incomes by ensuring that small scale farmers have greater financial independence. Then co-creation of knowledge already covered social values and diets and fairness. Fairness is very very necessary support dignified and robust livelihoods for all actors engaged in food systems, especially small scale food producers based on fair trade, fair employment and fair treatment. Soil health is also very important practices in agroecological development, Soil health is very important practices in agroecology, different categories of agroecological practices. So, you have seen many principles of agroecology, just now you have seen 13 principles. Now, what are the important practices in agroecology that are followed? So, at field scale you have tillage management, in tillage you have variety of options what kind of tillage is practiced. In crop fertilization you have certain field scale practices and then ah irrigation, in irrigation you follow the practices that increase the efficiency of ah irrigation. And then you have at a cropping system level you also got several ah components like crop choices, spatial distribution and so on. So, you have to manage these cropping systems and then finally, landscape scale management of landscape elements. So, at each level or at each scale you got certain practices you need to follow them. Potential of agroecological practices, potential of agroecological practices for the next decade in relation to their integration in today's agriculture. You will see on the next slide what is the potential. Most practices have so far a low integration in today's agriculture and only low or medium potential for the next decade to be more broadly implemented. In contrast organic fertilization, reduced tillage, drip irrigation, biological pest control, cultivar choice and split fertilization have already medium or high integration levels in today's agriculture and medium or high potential for the future. So, there are number of practices of agroecology some have been adopted by the people, some have medium chance and some have high chance. So, you can see this potential of agroecological practices integration in today's agriculture. On x axis you have three things that is low, medium and high. This is potential of agroecological practices. So, low is your agroforestry and then integration of semi-natural landscape elements at a landscape scale, direct seeding into living cover crops or mulch that is your conservation agriculture, integration in semi-natural lands and so on. So, these are low and see medium in medium you have organic fertilization, reduced tillage, drip irrigation and drip irrigation and biological and high you have split fertilization cultivar. So, as you move from left to right the adoption rate is low means first the farmer will adopt your split fertilization cultivar choice or the next in the ranking is biological pest control and drip irrigation reduced tillage and the third one and it you need lot of convincing the farmer convincing the community and people to adopt these low. Now, of course, there are number of advantages, number of merits of agroecology like sustainable management of natural resources. Our natural resources are preserved, the efficiency of our resources is improved, the biodiversity is improved, biodiversity is very very necessary to sustain the production to keep our land live and so on. Some economic resources everybody will get good income, good profit and share in the in the money coming from the society and maximizing use of local materials and durability of the farming production potential and economic activity. In social aspects there are certain advantages like improving food safety in terms of quantity and regularity. So, everybody will be ensured of the food there will not be hunger, there will not be malnutrition of the people and also the food will be safer because many times our conventional foods are having lot of pesticides and residues in them which is not healthy food, but food produced from the agro ecosystem through agro following the agro ecological principles will be safe from the pesticides. Improving products nutritional and taste quality, it has been observed through many studies that if you produce food from following the principles of agroecology then it is having higher nutritional value. Particularly antioxidants are generally more in food compared to the conventional food and these antioxidants improve our health system, health of the human being can be improved by by this. Increase autonomy for producers by reducing dependence on input suppliers and revenue generated invested in social development, profitability of know how and local resources, techniques adaptable to different contexts. And there may be certain drawbacks also or I can say there may be few limitations of the system also. The less immediate effect of certain protection products compared to compared to artificial products, additional space may be required in order agro ecological practices or there may be some few exceptions or few limitations of the system. So, overall you can see if you follow if you adopt agro ecology definitely it is environment friendly, it promotes good practices in the environment, it reduces greenhouse gas emissions, clean energy promotion and so on. Economically efficient everybody will get ensured income and promoting human development in this case emphasis is given on gender equality. So, overall from all perspective this system is very very holistic and sustainable and everybody will get sufficient food, better air, better water, better energy and better things. So, hope you like this lecture. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.