How I Went from Hobby Beekeeper to Self-Employed Beekeeper | Starting a Beekeeping Business
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OPLCdIa-_CQ
Howto & Style
 Hey, I'm Larissa from Beekeeping Made Simple and this video is about how I went from being a hobby beekeeper to running a beekeeping business full-time. This is the first in a series of videos about how to start and run a profitable beekeeping business. This first video is my story about how I got started and then I'm going to go into more specifics about how you can get clients, do wholesale and all the different ways that you can make a profit from your bees and honey. The first step in my journey that I recommend for everybody is to become a beekeeper. I know the theory of running a bee business is sounds lovely but first you actually have to get some bees and make sure that you like it and that your bees do well. My first year went horribly. I don't think it could go worse. Honestly, I haven't heard anyone's getting started story as a beekeeper worse than mine. I bought a package of bees. I put them in the hive. We released the queen from the cage four days later and within one week of putting those bees in the hive they absconded and were gone. And so the rest of the year I did absolutely nothing beekeeping and so then every time someone said how are the bees I would say they flew away and then they would laugh. My second year went better. I got two packages of bees but both of them died over the winter and so then after that winter I was left with this question of should I keep going? Should I try this again or am I just going to kill another colony of bees? And that's when I decided to take an internship at a bee farm in the very southernmost point on the big island of Hawaii. And that's what I did and that's how I learned to become a proper beekeeper. How to keep hives that not only stayed alive for years but thrived and were healthy and brought in an excess of honey for me to harvest and had a high population so that I could split them. While working at this internship it was only for six months and the farm didn't have many hives. They also had recently gotten the small hive beetles so their hives were just dying left and right. They also did mac nuts and coffee and what they primarily did actually was buy honey in five gallon buckets from another beekeeper and put it in jars with their label on it and sell it to stores. So I contacted some bee farms in the area and ended up getting a job working for a farm a couple of towns away. I mean I bought a moped and rode it 32 miles each way to this job. It took me almost an hour I had to have a gas can on the back because there was no gas stations other than the one that was a couple of miles from my the house I was living in and the place I was working at. But I did it and I ended up staying there for seven years. Now this job wasn't as a beekeeper actually it was as a cashier at the honey packing company. So what this operation was was a place that had about the apiary had about 2,500 hives run by two guys and then the one guy's wife started a honey packing company. She bought the honey from her husband in barrels and then put it in a jar with the label she made and sold it off under her name. Two different companies technically two different names but all working out of this one warehouse. The apiary said they don't hire females to work the hives and it did seem sexist at first but I had to give it to them. I cannot pick up a 30 pound 35 pound honey super and throw it three feet up over my head onto the back of their truck on top of a stack of other honey supers. So yes technically I couldn't do the full job. So she said that they did need someone preferably someone that knew about bees to work as a cashier in the shop that they recently opened. At their warehouse they had a shop and they called it a beekeeping museum and they sold their honey. So I took that job and I ended up going out with the beekeepers sometimes like for requeen all their hives and I also ended up starting apiary there and running the bees there and doing the beekeeping tours which was a huge way to bring people to their shop to buy their honey. And so this allowed me to learn a lot about the business. I learned about how honey packing businesses work and I learned about how these large apiaries worked and I learned that I didn't want to well I didn't want to run any of those and I didn't want trucks and employees and a warehouse and all of this equipment that goes into running these businesses. And I also saw like what not to do and I cannot really recommend enough if you have the opportunity to work for one of these companies. Even if it is just as an internship one day a week doing it for free. I was in my 30s when I did this non-paid internship and everyone else was 10 years younger than me but I did it anyway and I learned a lot and I'm glad that I did it. Now working for this honey packing company is what allowed me to ultimately start my own business because this honey packing company told me that they get calls by chefs for comb honey and they cannot fulfill this request because her husband does not want to do comb honey. It's a pain in the butt and it is not worth it to him and that was my that was what I needed. I heard somebody saying that they needed something and that there was a gap in the market and that nobody was filling it and that's when I started my own apiary. I was still working for them full-time but what I did was I contacted the place I worked at for free for six months and I asked my boss if they could give me a nuke and they did for free. I got two nukes and from there I did cutouts, caught swarms and split my hives until I had about an apiary of like 20 so hives and built my own equipment while still working full-time for this honey packing company and I had someone to buy my honey which was huge because this income was then used to buy more equipment and to build my apiary and you know pay the ridiculous rent that I had to pay to live in this terrible little shack. It's really important to find that gap in the market without finding that gap in the market you're just going to be one more bee business in the country looking to sell your honey for cheap to a honey packing company which can be done and it's fine but then you need to bring in a lot of honey in order to make a decent income. If you can find a gap in the market or a way to sell your honey for a higher price then you don't need as many hives to make the same amount of money. And so the honeycomb was for me because I didn't need a ton of hives and I could just sell it for a higher price point and make a decent income. I also then got them to start selling my honeycomb in their store and on their website. I made the label for them they had a different kind of jar that they weren't using anymore that was for another company that they bottled honey for and so then they started selling Larissa's honeycomb in their shop. Once I was running 20 or so hives and selling my comb honey that's when I started to decrease my hours at the bee farm and worked for them part-time and did beekeeping part-time. I was finally able to stop working for them part-time once I started to get other sources of income than my comb honey. As I still didn't want to have you know like more than 30 hives but I wasn't generating enough money from just selling comb honey from these 20 or so hives. What happened was someone contacted me from a hotel they had a couple hives there the person that took care of them was a staff of the hotel and they stopped coming to work and they were in a real like predicament they needed someone to care for these bees and come out as soon as possible. At first the guy asked me if we wanted to do some kind of exchange like I keep half of the honey that is harvested or something like that and I said just pay me just just pay me a monthly income and this is huge for someone they're self-employed because it gives you something that you can depend on and now you can start to figure out exactly how much you're making that year and what you can maybe expenses you can afford and whether you can then quit your job and be full-time. I made the mistake of telling them $300 a month which was way too low and then later had to increase that rate which is a lot harder to do than starting out with a higher rate to begin with especially knowing that they were you know in kind of a bad situation and you needed someone out there as soon as possible but then I contacted other hotels and I still kept in touch with the bee farm that I sold my honey to and occasionally people would contact them asking for somebody to take care of bees for them or also through the bee association I started sometimes people would come there and say that they were looking for somebody to take care of hives on their property and so that's how I started to get a few clients that wanted someone to just come to their property and take care of the bees they didn't want to have to take care of the bees but they wanted bees on their property and that was really key for me once I started to have a decent monthly income that was enough for me to be able to quit my full-time job and part-time job at the time and work for myself full-time now my income sources have changed now that I have two small children I don't want to be driving around checking bee yards I don't want to be harvesting a ton of honey and I focus more in education and the online end of things but the some of the basic principles that I learned starting out I still hold true thanks for watching stay tuned next week I'm going to share with you all about getting wholesale clients and how to make a product sheet