John Deere Machinery - Repair & Maintenance (A Day On The Farm)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oPRetoBizWs
People & Blogs
 Well how's it going? My name is Casey. I'm a farmer here from West Texas and welcome to the Wild West Farmer. Albert's been shredding cotton stalks for quite some time now. Anywhere we have wheat planted for production and we have intentions to combine it we're shredding the stalks out that way if we get in here with our header we can get our header real low to the ground and not have to worry about getting these cotton stalks into our grain sample. So anything that's going to production wheat is getting shredded and anything that's going either to milo or to cotton will run the stalk cutters over. So today we're going to be working on this HX14 shredder. Our blades are really really worn out and that one over there is just dangling in pretty bad shape. We need a tire. We got a big old split in it. Might have needed a little air at some point but who needs air when you can just keep rolling. We got some brand new blades over here we're going to be putting on. We got some brand new blades over here we're going to be putting on. Today we can only take these off because we realized we kind of ordered the wrong blades. This is the new style blade that's going to go on there. It's got the cutting edge there. It's coming apart easy. Generally these bolts are just rusted in there. I almost have to take a torch cut these out. But I don't know. Muscles here it just breaks them right loose. There's holes in the top of the shredder. I always stick go through the top. Socket comes down. Pick it up. Right down. Okay right there. Okay. Got tight? Yeah. Found us a cheater pipe. I spoke too soon. There you go. So with these blades we have to be careful. Two of these spin clockwise and one spins counterclockwise. So all the blades are actually kind of have a pattern. You got to get them put back in there. But we just busted this one loose on this side. We got one set left right here. And that will kind of conclude getting the old blades off. I'm going to have to stick the new ones on. We obviously got to fix the tire. We'll blow this thing off. Clean it up real good and nice. And that way next time we know when we need to go shred that we're in really good shape to be shredding. This thing's dirty. This whole tractor is really dirty. I mean it's got stalks everywhere in here. I think we're going to try to find some yellow paint and repaint our rim. This is where the debris have been shooting out of that shredder. And it's just, man it looks super ugly. So I'm going to hit those with some paint before we get our new tires put on. I've also got our shredder blades that were wrong, reloaded up. And we'll get the right ones tomorrow and get this deal put back together. But super happy it came apart. Just came right apart. So shouldn't be no big deal. So now I'm headed to go pick up my drag type spray rig. It's in a barn over here and we need to get it out of the way. That way we can go get our cotton planer here shortly in the next day or two. So we're gonna get this sprayer out of here. That way we can get in here and get this big planer out. We're gonna start doing some repair work on it. Been sitting here for about a year. Should be good to go and it is getting cold. Boy you can tell it's... Whew. We had the wrong blades yesterday. We ended up having to go get some more this morning. But we got this side all put together. So we just have these eight blades to stick on quick. Then we'll resume into next project. That's pretty good. If we get them too tight we might not be able to get them off next time. Um, no comment. So here at the planter we're about to uh hook this thing on get it out of this barn and get it back over to my house. When we unhook these planters we like to unhook them leaning backwards just a little bit. That way if it were to get wet on the front end we don't want it to fall forward. If it were to fall backwards it's a lot better because it'll hit the barn before it completely falls. Be uh ideal to have a place to unfold these things to unhook them. It's going to be just a lot safer. So it's really scary backing in here because if you just tap it just a little else you could fall. I'll have him back in because I don't want to make this thing fall. So we've got to hook up at least two remotes here. By the way when we get it to the barn we'll unfold it. We won't leave it folded up. We got to hook the hoses in that let the wings around and then the hoses that let the cylinders down. We also have to plug the lights in because it runs off this little hydraulic box and the solenoids have to have electricity here to let the planter unfold. So it's kind of a pain just to come get the planter especially these big ones that are folded up like this. It's never easy. So we're back over here at this pivot we're switching the pads here. They were white we're putting the blue one on the top. That makes a coarser pattern for our water to fall. We've been battling a lot of temperature swings of hot and then we drop into about three days of really low temperatures. Well we can't water on those days when it gets that cold because the ice from these sprayers will get up on that pivot and it'll overload it and it could possibly crash this pivot down. So by running a coarser pattern on these sprayers here we got a better chance for our water to go down. You can see here where Albert's swapping this pad out from the light they just twist off and you just roll it around. Boom. Looks good. Got our brand new tires put on. We'll end up painting the side of the rims that were silver. From one side it's going to look really pretty. The other side looks a little faded. Faded new. So I've been dealing with some birds in the barn over there. We're going to kind of get this planter cleaned up that way next week when we get into repairing this thing we got to go all through it. We've got a pretty good hit list and we kind of know what we need to be fixing but we want to get it all prettied up and that way we're not having to work with our bare hands around this type of mess. We've got to get this tractor cleaned up really nice. It's going to the paint shop here soon. We want to get it real clean. We got to start with blowing it off. This thing's dirty dirty. Just look on top of the fenders. These are all the stalks that are already blown out from underneath it down there. Next thing on the grill. Got a fuel leak up here. I believe we're cracked right there. We're going to have to take this tank off. You can see it fractures. We're going to take this tank off and weld that. So fun project here but we need to get it really clean so that's what Albert's been working on. That's what he's going to be working on this afternoon. Okay the little disc as we know it is about to start taking transformation processes here. We're going to leave the back end intact just the way you see it and I'm going to take a torch and I'm going to cut this frame in half right here. Same on the other side and we're just going to keep the back half of this disc. We're going to make a pivot rut filler with it. We're going to add a three point bar to the front end with a guide cone, the two disc lister units and that way we can go through and fill in pivot ruts with the three point versus this little drag type scenario we've got here. So they'll probably just throw this in throughout the videos of this project happening. So I'm going to grab the cutting torch and we're going to start chopping away. So Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.