Call for Action: Farmers Market
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oPzamutsYig
News & Politics
 Witness News called 12 for action. Well part of the fun of going to a farmers market is buying fresh produce from local farmers. That's right but how do you know it's truly fresh and truly local? You don't unless you know exactly what to ask. And problem solver Susan Hogan helps us navigate our way through the market. Summertime is prime time for fresh produce from a farmers market but if you're not a regular you may have some questions about what to look for and what's the healthiest for your family. Part of the fun of a farmers market can be getting to know the farmers but chatting up vendors can also be a good opportunity to verify the freshness and safety of what you're getting. Ask how long they've been farming, where the farm is located, and when fruits and vegetables were harvested. The Alliance for Food and Farming recommends asking vendors to clarify and confirm statements like certified organic and pesticide free. and ask what kinds of food safety precautions take place on their farm. And also when transporting the goods. Beyond produce make sure items like eggs and meat are properly chilled at the market. Ask whether milk or cheese is pasteurized to kill harmful bacteria. Unpasteurized milk can pose risks especially for your children, older adults and pregnant women. Meat should go in a separate bag from produce to avoid cross-contamination. And when you get home from a farmers market it may seem like common sense but washed your hands thoroughly after touching all of that produce and also wash the produce very well under warm water. The FDA does not recommend washing with soap detergent or commercial produce washes and also refrigerate cut or peeled fruits and vegetables within two hours of preparation. There are numerous farmers markets right here in Rhode Island so for a complete list log on to our website WPRI.com and if you have a consumer problem you need help solving contact our cultural for action center Monday through Thursday from 11 until 1 hotline 228-1850. I'm problem solver Susan Hogan Eyewitness News.