Vine Trends
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oQ_AMZABPXs
Education
 So here I am with my wisteria vine. I love this vine because wisterias will bloom if they get very little water, very little fertilizer, but they do need sun. Now the fragrance is intoxicating and a lot of people ask about when to prune wisteria. Pruning after blooming. But I want to introduce you to another vine that will flower in part shade or even a mostly shaded situation and it is called akebia. So come with me. We're going to meet akebia vine. Okay, so this is akebia. This one is called the chocolate akebia because it smells as sweet as chocolate. I love this vine. It has very intricate blooms and has a very, very long bloom time. This vine starts blooming, oh, probably around April and will bloom up until probably close to June. So here is the nice advantage of akebia vine. You can take your pruning, clippers and when it's in most beautiful bloom and it smells the sweetest, that's when you go out and you remove some of the dead foliage because the kebia vine in the northwest is semi-evergreen. So you can see the new foliage is nice and green and healthy, but right up here these are the leaves that are larger because they've been on the plant all year and they've got just a little bit of winter damage and so it's nice just to be able to come in, break those off, and because this vine is already covering the structure. When I see these tendrils that are big and long and shooting up straight up, they're easy to just break off as well and that's a form of pruning as well. So this is a vine that you can clean up and prune right when it's in flower and then that way it controls the size of the vine. So akebia vine, a great flowering vine for a semi-shaded location. So kind of with all the places of mortal if you reach out to destination Draghaizeeding location like that typewriter or the variety of people who are using this wants to walk inup took place during the time of park where the Teresa has lost any.". So I can imagine that we had them a party we had in a corner of table.... And that's how we can film an image on our court forível green squares. That's why the couple kids were on the monitor. That killed him. That's why we don't film that