Big Fat Mess Passing the Torch & A New Addition!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=osbecDRTUQE
Entertainment
 It's a big fat mess. My girl is getting it done. New resident on the farm. It's go day. Anything's liable to happen? Come on girls. To be able to pass the torch. Wow. Morning ladies. Morning. Go get your minerals. Alright. We are opening gates. Closing gates. So we can shuffle this big group of cows around and get them closer to bring them in next week. Oh everything's stuck. Uh, to get them marked. That gate needs rehanging. It's going to be a little warmer today. It's still pretty. Ow, ow, ow, ow. Letting the boys cool off and get a drink. Can't see, dude. Oh yeah, there he is. 12. 16. Hmm, she's fat. Did you not have a baby? Yeah. 16. Hmm, she's fat. Did you not have a baby? Yeah. Oh, ow, ow. Yeah. Oh. Oh. Yeah. Oh. When we were over here this morning, we realized that there's a big tree down. So there's always a big tree down somewhere, it seems like. We're going to cut that off. We brought Dixie. So Dixie's coming in heat for the first time. So we're having to play the separation game, which is super fun, super fun. So anyway, you won't be seeing everybody together for several weeks and that is why. Okay. Come here, Dix. Or go look for a squirrel or something. Dixie. Dixie. Oh. Dixie. Oh. Dixie. Dixie. Dixie. Dixie. Dixie. Dixie. Well, that was easy peasy. And it stuck on that little limb. This is just a big fat mess. We're just going to sit here for right now, aren't we? She's such a good girl, y'all. She's really good. She's gotten really good about listening for the most part, unless she's chasing the S-Q-U-I-R-E-L. She has a high sense of self-preservation. She stays away from the vehicle for the most part. Anything that looks and sounds like it might hurt her. was she skincare and we're so small, so we don't know as strong. Well, that was a thrill of the climber, like kofy's this bluehop. Okay. Filling up the bathtub for Rocket. Rocket, come here, buddy. Call him, though. Rocket, over here. Come here, Rock. I know he's right there. There he is. Hey, buddy. He got hot and muddy. What are you doing in the mud? Get your jobs, huh? I'm getting the water. Come here, buddy. Look. Come here. Come here. Look. Want to get in? Want to get in? Want to get in? Why that? He's like, if you're going to make me take a bath, I don't want to do it. It's got to be in my own timing. You know how my brain is. It's in another world. Okay. Austin's got something to show us. My girl is getting it done. Doesn't that look good? So, we decided to take this old frame that's just been sitting here doing nothing and we're going to put a swing on it. I got a swing coming in the mail tomorrow for the RV park. So, this is, she's been cleaning this up, wire brushing it. And we're just going to, she's giving it a nice coat of paint and it'll be just right. Okay, y'all. Oh, what is that? I'll tell you about that in a minute. I haven't told them we got another horse. Look. Several of you have asked about Dot. Well, the fact is Dot is very happy with her mule. And, but because the mule is so skittish of us, now we really can't get it. Well, daddy said he did the other day, didn't he? Okay. If the mule runs away, Dot runs away. So, we'll see what happens. Oh, hey girl. Hey. She's fine. She's looking good. She's fat as mud. Okay. Hey little mealy. Hey little. Uh oh. Uh oh. Oh gosh. She's scared of it. Alright. Hey, there's feedback there. Oh. There is feedback here. I didn't know that. You can't have that. Sorry cowboy. No. No. Okay, y'all. We have, we have a new resident on the farm. Say hello, Ben. We have another Ben. This is Peyton's horse, Ben. Ben is going to live with us now. Yes, he is. He's a sweet boy. Isn't he beautiful? He's gorgeous. He's a big boy. He and cowboy are getting along very well. They're hanging out here in this field for a while. There's some grass that needed eaten down and I said they're getting along well and he acts like he's going to bite. I don't see any bite marks on you, Ben. You doing okay, sweetie? He's been, let's see. I got this on the wrong. There. Now it'll be a little more proportionate. Anyway. Yeah. He's a sweet boy. He's a good boy. Yes, he is. Pretty paint. Pretty paint. Yeah. He's a sweet boy. He's a good boy. Yes, he is. Pretty paint. Pretty paint. Yeah. Pretty paint. Pretty paint. Alright. Oh, hey, Dottie. Hey, girl. Little Molly Dolly, you need to go roll in the creek or something. Look how dirty she is. Oh, my gosh. Hey, Dott. Hey, baby. I'm gonna go get you some fly sprays. Yeah. Hey, baby. You look so good, though. Look out. I mean, she's, she looks good, which you should. You've got access to a ton of grass. And Lawrence bush hogged all this today. He bush hogged all this. This is very, I mean, there's a lot. Goes way, way on back there. Oh, yeah. Hey, babe. Have you been talking to Dottie? Oh, yeah. She's been talking to you. Let me get out of kicking distance. Even though she's the kicker, he's not. She said, I do love some boys. I do love some boys. I do love some boys. She's such a mare, such a mare. Hey, buddy. What was that? I'm gonna get away from her. Gee whiz. kicker he's not she said I do love some boy she's such a mare such a mare hey buddy what was that I'm gonna get away from her gee whiz okay it's go day it's cattle working day well that's the plan anyway anything's liable to happen I think we can get them all done maybe at least the big biggest group we got good cattle working weather it's cloudy there's a slight chance of rain but even if it rains it's not supposed to be it's like it shows at 11 o'clock in the morning so even if that comes through that wouldn't be that big a deal so we're getting things ready and he's leaving me okay we're going to get some corn to put I don't know I don't know exactly what we're doing but I'm just gonna do what I'm told to do gonna run the grass down a little bit so we can easily easier open close the gates that's better more gates more gates get on this side oh well we ended up getting them in here without the horses Peyton and Wesley already had their horses saddled so we're just gonna see if they can do it between them and us to save some time like Lawrence was saying this group of cows is better at following than driving so we'll see hey cows hey cows yeah I'm gonna wish I just had my horse probably gonna have to go back and also I haven't gotten little dogs yet but we'll see hey cows hey come on girls oh they're cutting that way that's okay hey cows hey hey hey let's go hey cows hey cows hey good good good good come on girls okay out of breath a lot of darn good job all right he is sore and I'm sorry out the cows we'll run all the cows through first get them worked get them dewormed they'll be happy ladies to have some flies off of them and then we'll let the babies the babies that aren't really babies anymore okie dokie we got the cows going I was just telling Peyton um when Wesley came back here I was like it's so nice nice to be able to pass the torch because that was I mean I don't mind doing that back there but there's some things that I used to really not like doing that now Wesley will do like when we're working the calves he'll he'll get behind them and bring them up so then I don't have to get kicked and hopefully he won't get kicked either but um it is nice it is nice having some teenagers that are capable able capable able I would say willing and they are willing but they also don't really have a choice anyway couldn't be better cow working weather so we'll we'll praise god for that and the cows are done now for the fun part the babies the little big babies y'all are not little there's nothing little about you starting with a bowl wow wow wow was it really that bad wow that's all all right all the babies are where it works and they they did amazing they were so quiet and that was really good and after a day of working cows it only makes sense to eat steak we're coming back yeah and yes now the now in just yeah yeah just yeah