Biodiversity and agronomy - Introduction
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=otBNapiwhKs
Education
 Agriculture and biodiversity This is a highly important subject. When man stopped traveling 12,000 years ago and started having many babies, invented agriculture and breeding, and this disrupted the ecosystem, there could be human beings without agriculture, but there can be no human kind without agriculture. Man needed to feed the population. And in the fields in the 19th century, man stopped mixing wild plants and cultivated plants in the fields. Then everything changed. Irrigation was invented. Plants were selected. Genetic work started in sensitive agronomy with high levels of pesticides, insecticides. Many babies were born and the human population is multiplied by three between 1950 and today. And agriculture had to keep pace. And what we thought was the ideal situation started being challenged in the 70s and 80s. The dark clouds started accumulating over humankind, pesticides, insecticides, soil pollution, destruction of pollinator insects. Pollinator insects are absolutely vital because except for a few plants such as cereals, many plants are pollinated, fruit and flowers. And if we lost them, the loss would be 180 billion a year to pay the women who would have to replace bees and pollinate plants manually. So this is the challenge. We can't increase arable surfaces. We have to stop wasting water and we have to try to suppress pesticides, decrease the use of fertilizers, use biodiversity to maintain manpower in agriculture, not too much mechanization. We have to allow farmers to work and be proud of their job because the fact that we lose agriculture in the mountains is also a sign of loss of biodiversity. And when we talk about biodiversity, I'll give you a case. There was rice dwarfing, a viral epidemic in 2007. And obviously this had an impact on millions of people in the local population. It was necessary to test 6,300 varieties of rice to find one lost in the Himalayan valley that resisted the virus. Nowadays, this species is cultivated over 100,000 square kilometers in Asia. This is biodiversity at its best, bringing a response and reply to a problem and a lost Himalayan valley rice species allowed to solve the problem. So we need to preserve biodiversity in plants and animals. We need to control the animal population. There are far too many cows on earth. 1.5 billion cows. Far too many. We need to respect nature. We need to create agroecology intensively and also organic growing, but we can't grow plants organically everywhere. We simply want to make sure that we need to feed seven and very soon 9 billion human beings on earth, providing protein and also distributing the resources better across the world. This is a huge challenge, agriculture and biodiversity.