Machinery Pete: Farm Equipment Dealers Bring Big Value
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=otPw3hY7aW0
Entertainment
 Machinery Pete, sponsored by the grit, toughness and perseverance of farmers everywhere who rely on Chevron Dello because uncommon jobs require uncommon toughness. Chevron Dello, let's go further. Well, Machinery Pete is not talking about the value of used farm equipment this morning. Instead, he talks farm equipment dealers and the value they bring to used equipment purchases. All right, folks, time for a little chat. We're going to talk used machinery. Now, I've been covering auctions for 27 years, got over 500,000 prices, but I'm also the son of a third generation farm equipment dealer. Now, I know that the value of that business is in always being there for you, the customer. And I got to tell you, it's been so fun the past year or so as we've traveled the country filming for our Machinery Pete TV show, our segments on U.S. Farm Report, stopping in to interview dealers all over the country. And the theme that keeps coming through is how they're working towards and investing heavily in becoming more of a closer partner with you, the farmer. Now, of course, they're doing this with innovative new things on the service side to always be there for you. And, of course, on technology and precision ag, investing in personnel and training to bring you the very latest to help you be more efficient. Now, one of the other areas where dealers bring off the charts value is on the finance side. So, helping you minimize the front-end capital risk, getting you into that latest technology, again, to help you be more efficient on the farm. And also, dealers, you know, doing things in these tough ag times like helping you restructure financing on your current equipment fleet. Again, they're doing this with an eye towards the future, helping build a bridge towards better days. Now, I really think the future, this closer farmer-dealer relationship is going to drive tremendous value to your farm operation. And as I've been saying for the past year, I've never seen a better time to upgrade into late model used equipment. So, if you're able, give your local dealer a call. Next, see how one Afro-Yo vendor is pushing the envelope when it comes to deliveries. In the country, it's next. The local weather can have a big impact, not only on your day, but also on your crops. Start your day off right with your local forecast delivered right to your mobile phone. Just text WEATHER6 to 31313 to get started. We'll see you next time.