Future Farms: Bohol | Vita Isola Leisure Farm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=P03MDbFuIp8
Travel & Events
 That's right! I have safely arrived in this beautiful world-class destination of Bohol here in Visayas. And I'm on a mission. I'm on a mission to find out the other side of Bohol that's all about the farm life. Bohol is a province located in the central Visayas region with 75 minor surrounding islands. Vita Isola Leisure Farm is 48 minutes away from the Tagbilaran Airport and is approximately 24.6 kilometers from the center. Ang kwento, malalaman natin from Sir Raymond Roldan, ang negosyante na nag-shift from technology business to agritourism. Actually, it's a dream of mine to retire in a farm. I chance upon a convention on farm tourism. There, I learned about farm tourism and the trust of DOT to promote farm tourism sites all over the country. It was there that she announced that the Farm Tourism Act, R810.816, I believe, was already approved. The timing is like a lot of people. So, I can't wait to get back here and develop this into a farm tourism site. Because I learned that Taiwan, a small island like Taiwan, a tiny island like Taiwan, has 600 farm tourism sites. I said to myself, why not the Philippines? Para naman sa mga turista na bibisita dito, this will fulfill your need to experience both farming and beach life. Here, you will experience our organic farm. And you experience first hand how we grow our food. And have you heard of the Bahay Kubo song? Here in this area, we make it a point to highlight the plants mentioned in the song. Here we have our lettuce plots. This is our local veggies or we sometimes call it pinakbit crop because most of the plants here are ingredients in pinakbit. A typical and famous Filipino dish. Here we have a combination of herbs and vegetables in our urban gardening section. You can plant even in urban areas by using this technique. And you can recycle things like soft drink bottles. And then you can plant vertically. If you agree, there is a aquaculture here in Vita Esola. They call it fish-yalan. Actually, here are two because of our unique location. We have the farm-to-table and the sea-to-table. Here in Vita Esola, it is also a good experience because of the Casa Boholana restaurant where the produce and harvest from the farm is used. The freshest ingredients, Ika nga, for when you crave seafood and Filipino cuisine. You integrate backwards by growing your own food. You integrate forward, if you're a farm, by serving your own. Speaking of eating, we also have what we call edible landscaping. You can actually use food, the veggies and everything, to landscape your garden. Vita Esola also puts the leisure in leisure farms. Dahil na rin sa malapit ito sa ilang isla at lugar, they can arrange a quick boat ride for an aquaculture tour or go on a nearby island for a mangrove tour. It's important that people experience, you know, what island living is all about. Because by doing so, you will value more the products of the island and the people of the island. At kung pagkatapos ng island living ay mag-trip back to reality ka na, may mga pasulubang items kang mabibili dito. Ito ang paraan ng Vita Esola upang suportahan ang mga communities dito sa Bohol. Vita Esola Leisure Farm is definitely a must visit in Bohol. We want to promote farming, sustainable farming that is, to everyone. We believe that with our God-given weather or climate, no Filipino should go hungry. It's quite an honor and a pleasure to have wonderful and fantastic farm experiences here in Visayas. Pagdating sa agriturism, hindi talaga magpapatalo ang hilo-ilo at Bohol. The views at the farms are breathtaking. And being close to nature offers a different kind of healing experience na talaga namang nakakatanggal ng pagod at muli mo na namang masasabi na napakaganda talaga ng Pilipinas. Saludo rin kami sa mga farmers at farm owners dahil sa mga produkto nila na alam mong bunga ng kanilang pagsisikap, tsaga at pangangalaga. Tandaan, there's more to the Philippines beyond beaches. And now that we're done with Visayas, abangan ang Mindanao Farm Adventures! DRso- O