Unique Farm Equipment Finds in Western Canada - John Deere 8000
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=P98ZJCRLmys
Autos & Vehicles
 Hey everybody, it is Mike Les, Farm Hand Mike here, and last summer when I was touring around Western Canada, I went to several different agricultural museums, and there was one in Alberta here, I have not done a video of yet, but when we got here, one of the guys that I work with knew somebody that works here, so we got to go in one of the buildings where they have a bunch of unique equipment, tractors, vehicles, snowmobiles, motorcycles, you name it, and I come across something back here that I thought was pretty neat that I've never seen before, maybe some of you have, maybe you haven't, but let's check it out. Hey Mike, have you seen the 8000 before? This one? No, this. No, I haven't, that's what I was just looking at. So what's the story on that? So there was actually two things back here I've never run across before, a very old Klaus combine and a John Deere 8000. So this is the story I got when John Deere come out with the 8T or 8000T series. I'm told there was four prototypes, and this is the only one left. So supposedly this one did a lot of its test work and stuff down around Lethbridge, Alberta, Canada, is what I'm told. And it was donated, or John Deere gave it to the museum here. And we're just going to walk around it, we're going to check it out, we're going to get in a cab. I don't know these tractors very well, so there might be stuff on here maybe that's not so. That I don't know, but I'm sure some of you will. But let's just walk around it and take a look. I just thought the number 8000 was pretty unique, so definitely worth checking out and putting here on a video. I'm going to check out the tractor, and then we'll go check out this Klaus combine. The John Deere 8000 series tractors come out in a wheeled version only in 1995. And there was not actually an 8000 model that I know of. It was an 8100, 8200, 8300, and 8400. Then in 1997 they introduced the track version like you see here. And again, that was an 8100T through an 8400T. So anyways, just this one with the number 8000 on it, I think pretty unique. But if anybody's ever seen this before, knows anything about it, got to do some work on this as a prototype or whatever, comment below and let's talk about it. Now let's walk over and look at this Klaus combine. So I don't know the story about that. Of course, we all know about the Klaus Lexion combines. But these first ones here, I have to say, are pretty rare. Because on this trip, I saw two of these. One was actually at a dealer in North Battleford, Saskatchewan, sitting outside. I did get some pictures of it. And then this one. So I think these are the only two from this era that I have ever come across. I don't know the year on this or whatever. Again, start the conversation up. We've got the comment section below here in the video. Talk about it. And if you've ever run one of these, been around them, know approximately what year this is, add to the conversation. And I'll include a few pictures of the older Klaus combine I come across here at the dealer in North Battleford, Saskatchewan. So again, we've got the comment section below. If you know anything about this model, year made, you ever run one, whatever, comment below. Let's talk about it. And that's going to wrap up this video. I know it's a short one, but it was a couple neat machine finds here. And I thought it'd just be neat to include these in a short video. I do have a lot of footage from two different agriculture museums here in Western Canada that I have not edited and uploaded yet. Plan to get those done. And hopefully we'll get those done before the field spring work starts here for the 2020 season. But I want to thank everybody who supports my channel. If you're watching this and you're not a subscriber, please consider subscribing to my channel. Of course, down below, you've got the comment section. You've got a like button. You've got a dislike button. Do whatever you want. And you can also check me out on Instagram at farmhandmike.