Horsch Building Name Recognition and Dealer Network
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Pa0AJ9OXBxI
Science & Technology
 Music The way we got things started with the Joker was really almost a grassroots campaign. It was a lot of leg work by many different people involved to introduce people to who Horsch is. The big thing about Horsch is that they don't take a cookie cutter approach. Horsch is a partnership with a German company. The concern is that you are force fed a product that works in Europe, but they don't really have a market for it or a place for it here in the United States. And so they want to design products for the U.S. specifically. And that started with the Joker. All of it has been changed to standard units, inches, things like that. So parts availability is better sourced locally. It leads to then the Joker. The Joker has really established, helped us establish our dealer network, because we know we can't be successful without strong dealers in the customers' areas. And so we've established that dealer network through the Joker, and now we want to continue to innovate and provide products to the American farmer that we feel are going to take it to the next level. We don't want to bring over me-too products that we can't differentiate ourselves from, but we also need those products to provide value to the end user. And so the next step was bringing the Maestro over. Speed is one aspect of it. With the Joker it is designed to run at a higher speed. With the Maestro I don't want to set, we don't just have one speed that we run. I talk about it more in percentages. You know, with all of the different aspects of this machine, I think we're going to increase planter speeds 20 to 40%. Now what that means for you on your farm may be from 3.5 miles an hour to 5, or from 5 to 6.5 miles an hour. And so it really depends on the guy, what he's using in front of the planter, and how his field is prepared. And so the potential is there to increase planter speeds, but we can't make a blanket statement that's going to say 9 miles an hour in every condition, because it is the most important piece of equipment on a guy's farm, and we've got to make sure it's right.