Labor shortage drives up farm wages could hike food prices
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBh1v69cSLs
News & Politics
 The crackdown on immigration, having an impact on immigrants working in agriculture. Because of a labor shortage, workers are actually seeing wage hikes. In some cases, farmers are paying as much as $30 an hour for workers to pick their crops. And this could affect all of us. Jonathan Hunn is live in Bakersfield, California with more on this. Jonathan? Hey, Jenna. The labor shortage on California's farms has been getting progressively worse. First under President Obama and his aggressive deportation policy, now under President Trump and his proposed crackdown on illegal immigration. So when farmer Jason Gianelli harvests these onions in about three months' time, he'll have 100 workers working here every night for about a month and a half. Now you might think that that would mean minimum wage for those workers, but because of the labor shortage, he's going to be paying far above that. Listen here. They can make up to about $20 an hour. Really? Yeah. So you're way ahead of minimum wage. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, even on our melon crews, we, and it's not, don't get me wrong, it's not easy work. Sure. But on a good day picking watermelons, we got guys that'll make $28 to $30 an hour. Now it's tough to get solid numbers on how many illegal immigrants work on California's farms. Nobody wants to give a real number. But a study by UC Davis estimated it to be about half of all California's farm workers. So immigration policy matters. A lot of the farmers in this region are Trump voters, Trump supporters still. But what they want is clarity. They want more efficiency on programs like the H-2A visa for seasonal workers. They want clarity on immigration policy so that their workforce isn't ruled by fear. Listen here to the executive director of the Kern County Farm Bureau. I think it's those that, you know, either have, you know, something on their record or are even skeptical if they have still a family member that isn't in the United States, if they become a target. There's just a lot of questions among the immigration community that they're scared to know the answers. And quite frankly, I am too. You know, it's still just a waiting game. And the farmers warned that if they keep having to up what they're paying their workers, ultimately all of us as American consumers are going to pay the price. There may even be less American products on the shelves. We'll have to import more because less will be grown here. And these farmers who, as I say, are Trump supporters say that kind of result would actually be the opposite of making America great again. Jenna? Interesting. Thank you very much, Johnson.