How To Install Drip Irrigation DIY Drip Irrigation Drip Irrigation Basics
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pCWKpzx0QmM
Howto & Style
 So it's that time of the year again. Things are starting to warm up. It's past Mother's Day now and we want to get out in our yard and we want to plant a garden. But like a lot of us, we don't like watering those gardens. So I have a great solution and alternative for you that's cheap and effective. So let's get started. So this is my backyard area. We have three raised beds here in my backyard. We started this about three years ago. They're just made out of two by sixes with a post in the corner and then we basically brought in a leaf compost. You could call it topsoil if you want, but it was basically a leaf compost and filled them in and we started our garden, like I said, about three years ago. So like I said, we started this about three years ago. We have a bunch of vegetables in here. We have tomatoes, cucumbers, we have asparagus. We actually have some strawberries. I really enjoy that. That's something that my family really likes to do, some organic gardening. So basically what I'm going to show you today is drip irrigation. I know a lot of us out there think of drip irrigation and think it's a lot of work, but it's not. It's actually a lot of fun. You can customize it. So I'm going to show you how I did my raised garden beds back here and how you can do it at your home as well. So basically what drip irrigation is, it's basically tubing that runs throughout your yard and you have basically emitters that run off of it into your various plants. This is a half inch pipe here. They sell in a hundred feet at Home Depot and I believe they sell it at Lowe's as well. This hundred foot pipe is less than ten bucks. Basically from here you would connect it to a water timer. I'll show you that in a couple minutes. And then basically off of here you can run lines to your plants. So like I said, Home Depot sells this Rainbird water timer. I've had this for two seasons now. I haven't had any problems with it. It just hooks up to my faucet here. Basically what's really cool about this is it's battery operated. You can turn the dial, you can set the clock, you can set the duration to how long you want. You can have it come on two times a day if you would like. You can have it come on any day of the week, every day of the week, however long as you want. You can also have a manual turn on here as well. And there's also a rain delay as well here. Like I said, two seasons, I haven't had a problem with this and it's only 35 bucks at Home Depot. From there, what you're going to do is you're going to connect your water here. Basically you have your half inch line come down here. You have a couple connections here that go into a backflow preventer here. And then your half inch line is just going to go out underneath your ground and into where you want it out in your yard. So like I said, I have my half inch line here. I just run it down in my mulch bed here and I just have it buried. And it basically goes along my house here. And it goes all along here. And then I have a turn here. They sell elbows that you can cut and easily put together. And it goes all underground here. We're going to go into my backyard. And then basically what happens is it goes along here underground all the way back to my raised beds. So once we come around my fence line here, we come up here and then we connect in here again to another half inch and I have this just long run along the middle of the raised bed here. And then basically what these brown ones are, these are four inch emitters. So they're spaced out four inches apart. And basically they emit water out into your garden. It's a really cool feature. They're really easy to hook up to your half inch line here with the adapters that they bought you can buy at the store. And I just have that run around my garden. And then also in the middle of my garden in certain areas, I have these larger adapters here that they just plug in and they also emit water as well. So what I'm going to do next is I'm going to turn on this section here so you guys can see what it looks like coming out of the water lines. So like I said, it's really easy to manually turn this on. You're going to hit the water now. You're going to just set your duration. I have it already set here for 10 minutes and you just hit the okay. And then the water is going to start flowing out through your system. And we're going to go back and check it out at the raised bed now. So we're back out to our raised bed here. As you can see here, our emitters, they are dripping here every four inches. And what's really cool about this line is you can have it maneuver wherever you want. You could have it run like a snake. You could have it run directly over your plants where they're at. This section of my garden right here is asparagus. As you can see here, you have these emitters as well. These ones emit out more water than these ones. So they're really great for shrubs, flowers, plants, whatever. You can put these wherever you want. So this section over here, we just put these in this year, these raised beds. We have some various vegetables throughout here. What's really cool about over here is we also have the emitters as well. They're spaced out four inches. Basically, I'm just using these staples here to clamp them down. And then from here, they also sell these poly tube here. These are a solid tube. And what's really cool about these tubes are, is you can pretty much run these tubes to out anywhere you want. So for example, this tube basically runs and connects all four or actually all three of these raised beds together. And then this tube here runs underground. And then it comes through this garden here. And then my half inch poly tube is underground there. And I have it just connected to there. So that main water source is putting that water through that small tube here. And it's coming through here. And it's connecting these three raised beds together. And they're all getting the drip irrigation together. So you're probably wondering by now, how easy is it to do it, Joe? It's really easy. Anybody can do it. My wife's done it. I've showed her how to do it. She can do it. Anyone can do it. So let's, I'm going to show you a couple of examples of how to get connections off of your main water line here. So let's just use this pipe here as an example. Let's just say that your timer is down here. And then your endpoint is down here. So what you're going to want to do is when you have various points where you want to connect off of it, they sell this punch tool here. It's a really cool tool. All you do is basically put a little bit of pressure and you're going to just make a little hole here. And then from there, they sell these little barbs here. This is a straight one. It has a connection on both ends. All you're going to do is basically push that in there. And once you hear that popping noise, that you know that that's in there. And then from there, you can connect your four inch spacing emitters if you want. But for this example, what I'm going to show you is how to make an extension off of this. So basically you have your smaller poly tube here, and then you can just connect that to here. It's really hard sometimes to connect these together. So what I like to do is either get a blow torch here. I got this at Harbor Freight. It's pretty inexpensive. You just put a butane at the bottom. You can also even use a lighter as well. Basically what you want to do is just heat up this section here a little bit. It's a little windy today. Just a little bit. And then from there, you're just going to feed that onto your barb there. And then it's connected. And then at the other end, you can connect these little emitters here. These come in a pack, a 10 pack here. I believe they're, I think they're less than $2 or $3, something like that. You can find these at Home Depot or Lowe's. These put out two gallons per hour. I don't get caught up in that too much. I just look out at my plants. If they need a little bit more water, I adjust my timer that way. I don't get too caught up in the gallons per hour. But basically from here, you're going to take your poly tube here and you're going to connect it together. And again, these poly tubes are a little bit hard to connect. So what I like to do is just heat up the end a little bit here. Once I can get it to go. And then you can just connect the green end to here. And again, you can easily cut this tube. What I use to cut this is basically this knife here. It's used for pecs. Again, you can find these pretty much at any hardware store as well. So if you have to cut this, it's very easy to cut. You just clamp that on and it cuts right off. And then from there, they also sell these adapters as well. They sell straight ones. They sell the elbows as I have here. And all you got to do is basically just feed this on until it gets pretty tight. And then you have your connections there. Another great thing they sell is these little goof plugs. So basically what happens is if you make a mistake in your main water line here, or if you want to stop one of these lines as well, which can be cut with a pair of scissors as well, what it basically what you do is say if I had a hole in my line here, and I didn't want that line anymore, or that hole there anymore, you can just take one of these goof plugs, and you can just snap those in there. And you're good to go. So here's a perfect example here of how to use that extension that I just showed you in your various plants in your yard. I have here blueberry bushes. We have them along our fence line here. They come from Hamilton, New Jersey. A lot of you don't know, but Hamilton's actually the blueberry capital of the world. There's more blueberry plants there than I've ever seen. The blueberries are just the best. So we went down there a couple years ago, and we picked up some, and we put them out in our yard. So basically what I did was is I have my half inch line underground here that runs back to my garden bed. But what's really great about that half inch line is you can just branch off of that to other various parts of your yard. So that's basically what I did here. I have my tubing come out from my half inch with my straight barb connector like I just showed you. And then from there, I run my polytubing to the drip emitter here. And then what's really cool is they sell these stakes as well. And you can just connect these to the end here. You can just place them to the base of the plant. And you can just easily segregate basically what each plant is. And you can easily segregate water into each plant. So I have them going to each of the blueberry bushes. And it's really easy to keep them watered as well. And basically I have that same concept along my flower beds as well. Each of these plants along my flower bed here has that same extension concept as the blueberries do. So what's really great is you can keep your rose bushes. You can keep any kind of shrub that you have watered. And basically I just have that half inch line. Just keep running along my mulch line there along the edge of my house. And I can easily just branch off of there and get each of these plants enough water to last out through the summertime. So that's pretty much it today. I just wanted to show you the drip irrigation in my yard. Like I said, I've had this for about three years now. I love it. It just runs so smoothly. We can keep all of our plants nicely watered throughout the spring and the summertime. Our garden loves it. It's really easy to do. You can probably do it less than a hundred bucks, maybe even less than 50 bucks. But depending on the size of your garden or your yard, I think it's really inexpensive. So you don't really have to worry about watering anymore. You just set that timer and go. If you found this content helpful today, make sure you smash that like button. It helps out with the channel. It helps out with the YouTube algorithm so other people can find my channel. If this is your first time watching a video, please consider subscribing to my channel. It's an all organic lawn channel. I have no herbicides in my lawn. That's what I strive for. I have kids. I don't want any kind of chemical in my lawn. So please, if you're new, please consider subscribing to my channel. Just a quick note for the products that were used in today's video. Pretty much everything can be found at Home Depot or Lowe's. They pretty much have the same variation of the drip irrigation adapters at either store. The only thing I didn't purchase at Home Depot or Lowe's was the brown garden adapter, the four inch spacing. I couldn't get the four inch spacing at Home Depot or Lowe's. So I actually got that off of Rainbird's website. So if you want a four inch spacing, please check out the Rainbird site. I'll leave all the links to the products in the video description below. If you have any questions or comments, please comment below. I will get back to you. I tried to go as quickly as possible on the content today. So please, if you have any questions on what I did or how to do it, please comment below and I'll see you in the next one.