Crunchy Carrots: from farm to fork
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Pf74rrn1uLk
Education
 Crunchy carrots from farm to fork. A carrot is a root vegetable which means that it grows underneath the ground. The part we eat is the root of the plant, which is where all its energy is stored in the form of starch and sugar. Other root vegetables include parsnips, beetroot and even onions. Although we always think of carrots as bright orange, did you know you could also grow yellow, white, red and even purple carrots? You can also eat the leafy green tops of the plant too, although it's best to cook them a little bit first. To grow carrots, the land must be ploughed, formed into ridges and then the stones are removed by a machine like this. Because if carrots grow around stones, they can form some rather unusual shapes. Then, between December and May, the tiny carrot seeds are planted into the furrows. They grow best in light, sandy soil and are planted sparingly to give each plant enough space and sunlight to grow fully. It takes between 12 and 16 weeks for different varieties of carrots to grow to their full size. But this can depend on the weather. The ideal conditions are warm days and nights, along with plenty of sunshine and rain, which is why they grow so well in our British climate. Once the carrots are ready to be harvested, a machine like this one, called a top lifter harvester, lifts them out of the soil. This process is usually started at midnight, when the temperature is cooler. This helps to keep the carrots fresh and crisp. Around 700,000 tonnes of carrots are harvested each year in the UK. That's the equivalent weight of nearly 4,000 blue whales. Once harvested, the carrots are transported to a factory, where they are flushed out of the trailers by huge flumes of water. The carrots are then separated from any soil, stones or weeds, which may have been accidentally picked up. Next, they're washed and polished, and then sorted by size and quality. This machine is called a hydro-cooler. Inside, the carrots are being plunged into ice-cold water, which keeps them nice and fresh. Finally, they check for quality one last time before being packed. Once packed, they're ready to be transported to the shops. It takes an average of just 36 hours, from the moment the carrot is pulled from the ground, to arriving in your local store. Ready for you to take home and enjoy for your dinner. Ummm! Umm!