The Biological Flywheel Minerals in a Carbon/Biological Cycle
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PhHPartlsgI
People & Blogs
 I thank Midwestern BioAg for allowing me to participate in the webinar. I hope everything's going well for everybody, wherever they may be tuning in around the country. You know, I think the first two weeks, if you've tuned in to Edwin's webinar on carbon and John's about fertility, you know, the desire today is to really touch on the fact that the effort and the synergy of all of that is to get those minerals, to get those nutrients that you've purchased that are inherent in your soil, you know, and that you're growing, you know, into a carbon biological cycle so that they can then most effectively and efficiently be made available to this year's and subsequent year's crops. For so long, as we've all known and are gaining even further knowledge, that crop fertility has been sort of a fuel tank approach where we sort of look at this year's crop nutritional needs, potential removal of nutrients, and we fill the tank up thinking that ultimately we're going to then sort of get close to empty and then fill it up again for next year. With the systems approach at Midwestern BioAg, that certainly is key with carbon minerals and biology, the effect really that I'm going to try and present today is about getting those nutrients in a carbon biological cycle. It really means looking at it more from a flywheel approach, managing the energy of both the microbial and plant relationship, as well as having those nutrients in a plant and microbe friendly form, as well as having the necessary biology to do the heavy lifting of converting those nutrients into plant available form. So the Edwin's talk on carbon, carbon is extremely important. We're learning more and more from the standpoint of how the soil plant system functions, you know, that carbon is a key component. And, you know, that's definitely beneficial to have the carbon-based fertilizers, both the NBA dry carbon-based fertilizers and the liquid carbon-based fertilizers in a program, you know, to provide that necessary platform and foundation for biology. Obviously, then having minerals, nutrients, fertilizers in a form that's not only linked and combined with the carbon, but also in a biology-friendly form. And then thirdly, you know, the biology itself, the inherent or parent biology in your soils are those that you may add or inoculate in that process. And one of the big drivers is that, you know, the soil biology, you know, takes up these components, you know, in a form of a carbon and nitrogen and phosphorus, for instance, ratio that they need at those bases in order to complex and build their own organisms, their own biology. So it's very clear that, you know, carbon is the driver of that engine. You know, when we have deficiencies in carbon in the system, both long-term and short-term carbon, you know, we'll have deficiencies in biology and therefore have deficiencies in mineralization, you know, of nutrients by that biology. So soil microbes eat first. You know, basically a review of that previous slide. You know, they're a product of their environment. We've known that. And if it weren't for that, you know, they would have died out long ago. So soil microbes are highly adaptive. And they're driven by their need to reproduce. In the right environment, some soil organisms can double in population, you know, as quickly as every 20 minutes. And their need for acquiring that carbon and nitrogen in those ratios, you know, is critical. So therefore, it's safe to assume, obviously, that soil microbes are a dependable indicator of soil health. We're seeing that more and more from the standpoint of CO2 respirations and those sorts of things. And then because of that, you know, it's clear that carbon is the driver, you know, of this soil nutrient microbial recycling system. I was at a conference, an acres conference, oh, geez, going on 10 years ago or so. And there was an EPA scientist there that made a proclamation, you know, that about 20 years from now was going to be the end of the chemical era. And, you know, that isn't to disparage the user's current or past or future of those chemicals. His proclamation was really not that agrochemicals would stop being made or that they would stop being used. You know, his point would be was that they would stop working. So, you know, using nutrient cycling and reducing our dependencies on these, you know, chemistry measures, you know, is also part of, you know, what having nutrients in a carbon biological cycle does. You know, we we we we we want to make sure that those nutrients, you know, are in a in a form that the biology needs to liberate and make plant available versus the very highly soluble chemistries that can get away, quite frankly. You know, and leak into Gulf of Mexico, groundwater, et cetera. So just a quick review on on biologicals and, you know, what is a biological anyway? There's there's a number of things that are coming on the market. So just a quick overview. There's there's there's probiotics, you know, which are, you know, containing like our live organisms, prebiotics, which, you know, may contain either the constituents of live organisms that were once there, but, you know, no longer containing live organisms. Organisms biostimulants like the LCBF, for instance, is a is a considered a biostimulant biofertilizers are oftentimes, you know, similarly referred to, you know, as a as a biostimulant as well. And they they really are, you know, some of these these very, very specific organisms that, you know, that that have been determined to, you know, contribute nutrient cycling benefits. And then there's bio control, you know, biocides, you know, very similar to products on the market, you know, that that are produce a systemic induced systemic response, you know, and help the plant from the standpoint of either defending against disease or pest, or in some instances, actually having a direct effect on on a pest or disease. Some of those that have been around for quite some time, you know, so the biologicals aren't something new, but we've had Bt, milky spore of a very bossy on a streptomycetes, you know, rhizobium, we all we all use various strains of rhizobium on our legumes for inoculation, trichoderma, you know, and even human biotics, right with penicillin, mycetristin, etc. So, so the use of biologicals, both in agriculture and beyond is not something that's, that's new, but it is it is an expanding process. So, again, the probiotics, as we talked about, you know, those are typically, you know, contain live cultures, you know, and again, many of them are sold in those different forms, such as trichoderma, mycorrhiza, and the rhizobiums for for peas and soybeans, fat, chalfalfas, etc. Biofertilizers, again, that's containing substances which contain living organisms and applied to plant services, you know, used to colonize soil rhizosphere, you know, both the interior and the exterior of plants. Prebiotics, you know, some of these are even in the form of, of kelps, humic and fulvic substances, you know, and they're also known as plant growth regulators, but these would come from, from natural sources versus synthetic sources, as far as those regulators go. So, bio-stimulant, again, you know, sugars, molasses, dextrose powders, humates, soluble carbon products, very similar to the, the, the benefits that we see from using products like the, the LCBF to, to, you know, not only encourage and feed, and then have those microorganisms that are apparent in your soil function from a nutrient cycling standpoint, but also, if you're using a liquid biological as an inoculant, you know, they would be a food source to, to provide the necessary energy and resources for those, for those biologicals as well. Bio-control, again, induced systemic response, very similar, regalia is a perfect example. That's a, actually an extract, you know, of a plant, a weed in particular, but it, but it produces this induced systemic response that, that, that then the plant naturally builds its immune system. There's also volatile oils, you know, cloves, nemes, and those sorts of things that help primarily from insects, you know, and prevent, you know, their, their, you know, disrupts their mating cycles. And even potentially, you know, changes that. And it also has some, you know, antifungal effects as well. Matt Klein-Enns from Ohio State University has done quite a bit of research on, on liquid biologicals, you know, and, and one of the, the main thrusts of his work was really to try and determine where they work, where they didn't, and, and how they best need to be stacked in an agricultural system as far as with other fertilizers and those sorts of things. Matt Klein- And, you know, he, he, he writes that, you know, they, they, the relationship, you know, between plants that produce extremely well, you know, and, and are healthy, and those is, is directly related to, you know, the, the robustness and the diversity, you know, of, of soil biology. Matt Klein- What we've learned from scientists is that only about 1% of the known beneficial biology in the soil can actually be cultured in a lab. So, so when we look at biologicals, you know, the, the desire is to have as many different species and, and so, so the most diversity and the most volume or biomass or robustness of that biology as well. Matt Klein- So, so when you're looking at using a liquid biological or adding biology into your growing systems, this is the, this is the list that, that Matt at Ohio State has put together that the diversity of the microbes in the product is key. Matt Klein- Number one, you know, always use those microbials with a food source, you know, something that contains, you know, a readily available, you know, energy or food source for that biology. Matt Klein- Consistency in the production of the production of the production of the production of the production of the production of that product stacking and having synergistic effect, you know, with, with other products that it's partnered with. And then when non-performance occurs, you know, look at the possibilities that there might be either an imbalance, you know, a limitation on soluble carbon or carbohydrates, you know, for that biology. Or, you know, that the plants themselves, you know, are struggling from a nutrition standpoint and maybe not producing the root exudates that are necessary to support that biology as well. So when we, you know, take a good sound system that has carbon included as a carbon base in fertility in both dry and liquid form, and then we inoculate, you know, with a broad spectrum robust biological, you know, we can see immediate things from the standpoint, certainly in legumes. You know, we see growth stage advancement, we see root development enhancement, nodulation increase, you know, are all components that we're looking for. When we take the nutrients that you're already using, the management practices that you're employing from the standpoint of crop residue management and sound biologically friendly fertility, you know, we can leverage that, you know, by enhancing that biological community, you know, in the planting and maintenance of a crop. This is a university of Wisconsin study that had, you know, nodulation using CX1 as liquid biological, you know, and we saw almost a doubling, 100% increase in nodulation. Again, you know, that's going to transform to nitrogen credits in future crop years, as well as enhanced crop yield and development during this season. The other thing is managing those nutrients in your crop residues, you know, we're seeing, you know, really high, excuse me, levels of crop production, you know, corn crops, you know, 250 to 300 bushel, you know, managing those residues just physically getting them out of your way, you know, can be a challenge. But the other thing is to make sure that those nutrients stay in that carbon biological cycle and aren't left on the surface and oxidized back into the atmosphere. So, you know, whether it's at the beginning of the process and at the genesis of germination and seed development, or whether it's at the end of the season and managing those residues, getting those nutrients back in to a carbon biological cycle is ultimately critical. It helps from not only a residue management and planting and field fitness the following year, but it also makes sure that those nutrients that you've bought or grown, you know, get back into an available form more quickly. You know, this is actually soybeans that were grown on that field after that crop residue was sprayed with LCBF and CX1. And you can see, you know, the plants on the right are those that had the treatment plants on the left were the check. And again, you know, we're getting better planting conditions and we're cycling those nutrients back into the carbon biological cycle, you know, for that subsequent crop in a more efficient manner. With and without liquid biologicals on corn, you know, and, you know, obviously looking at this picture, you know, the yield tells the story that emergence, you know, the lack of tip bag on the corn, all those things are what, you know, what we're wanting to do from the standpoint of getting those yields and getting the ROI that we need. But the other thing is, you know, when we talk about nutrients and the carbon biological cycle, you know, these are tissue tests of corn where we see, you know, by supporting the plant and the fertility regime with carbon and biology, we get increased uptake of nutrients into the crop that year, which ultimately results in plant health and increased yield. The other thing is, is that if we're feeding that back to livestock, that corn that was in the previous couple slides back, you know, we saw a 15% increase in protein, no difference other than, you know, liquid by a broad spectrum, liquid biological and support with a high quality carbon source. You know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, increased yield, beneficial ROI there and has to be there. But certainly if you're feeding it to your own livestock or if you're able to directly market this to someone who sees and knows the benefits of those increased nutrients, crop nutrient density, which ultimately leads to animal and human health benefits, you know, is the next frontier. And, and, and, and I personally am really excited to see that we're able to really move these things, you know, in the right direction, in a very positive direction, you know, with a, with a sound fertility program, you know, really good cultural practices and supporting that, that, that systems approach with, with high quality carbon sources and high quality biological sources. And, you know, we do this on, you know, demonstrating here, the whole idea is not to necessarily show all the details of the increases that we saw in amino acids and vitamins, but again, to show that by supporting and, and, and really trying to get nutrients in that carbon biological cycle, we're able to drive the nutrient benefit demands. Obviously in a year, obviously in a year, obviously in a year like this, where our dairy farmers, especially here in Wisconsin are suffering terribly from a number of factors, you know, being able to produce, you know, higher quality forages, either on the same or less acres, or potentially be able to, you know, improve forage values and be able to potentially, you know, reduce other inputs or byproducts, you know, is critical. And we were able to move in this particular trial, you know, over 50% in both amino and vitamin, vitamin assays. And, and that's critical from the standpoint of really understanding this minerals in a carbon biological cycle. So, um, is the field, one of the fields that we tried it on. And again, you know, just conventional fertility, OO60, um, and, uh, you know, um, little bit of map dap. And I think even, um, some urea was going on, um, alfalfa, if you can imagine that. And, and on the other side is an organic transition. And again, that's, that's, you know, sound dry fertility from Midwestern bio-ag, uh, LCB, um, um, LCBF, you know, carbon, um, supporting, uh, broad spectrum biological. And, you know, we're able to get not only those increases in tonnage, but the increases in those forage quality and move those nutrients, uh, down the chain, you know, into that livestock. And then ultimately, uh, even into the milk or meat that that livestock is producing. So again, sort of as a review, uh, you know, the, the, we, we talk a lot about, uh, mineral balancing and there's been a tremendous amount of work over the years. And MBA was, uh, and still is a pioneer and frontier in, in, in that area of, of, uh, balancing minerals and understanding those ratios and balances. But I think that we're realizing that there's also the need for this balance and this natural proclivity for the plant soil system to have balance on a biological standpoint. And carbon is really the link, you know, carbon is the bridge, uh, you know, to allowing that, uh, mineral and microbial balance to occur. So just as a bit of review, um, and we'll post, um, a short whiteboard of this along with the webinar, a link to it. But again, you know, taking that, the, the macronutrients, uh, you know, that, that Edwin talked about amino acids being, or micronutrients, excuse me, being so critical and, and we're realizing every day that there, there's an increasing number of micronutrients that are important, uh, you know, for optimal plant health. And then ultimately getting those nutrients into the, to the livestock and human food chain is also very important. We're doing this with over a hundred thousand, uh, you know, known beneficial bacteria, uh, over 50,000 known beneficial fungi. And the key there, uh, you know, is carbon, you know, ensuring that, uh, we're, we're supporting that system. If it's deficient in carbon with high quality carbon sources, uh, you know, like the, the dry carbon based fertilizers and liquid carbon based fertilizers, as well as then leveraging that system with, uh, you know, a healthy plant producing, uh, much greater volumes of photosynthesis and root exudates, uh, so that we're pumping that liquid sunshine and those sugars, uh, down to feed that biology. And all of this synergistically builds to create the far more diverse levels of amino acids, proteins, and enzymes that ultimately results in, you know, the, the, the quality of, um, not only the crop, um, from a yield perspective, but also ensuring that when we're getting optimal yields, uh, we're also producing an extremely high, high, um, high nutrient density. And then also, um, we've got, um, high yields, uh, low crop crop crop, crop that stores better, uh, crop that comes out of the field, uh, a dryer and in better harvesting conditions. And, and so the, the benefits of, uh, really minerals in a carbon biological cycle is to get to that end game where we're, we're developing strong ROIs, um, you know, good, strong yields, but keeping an eye on the ball relative to managing the fact that these, these nutrient density aspects are going to be the next opportunity in agriculture to really differentiate and maximize not only profit opportunities, but ultimately, you know, soil health and animal and human health opportunities as well. So I think we're about the time to start opening up for questions. So first question, you noted applications with LCBF products in a conventional cropping system. Can CX1 be tank mixed with other chemical applications such as a herbicide or will it harm the biostimulant effectiveness? We found that in most instances, you know, as long as we stay away from anything that's real high salts, CX1 tank partners, you know, in a variety of different ways. The the biology in broad spectrum liquid biological like CX1 is in a dormant form. So it's going out, you know, with those tank partners. And then it's not until it reaches, you know, a hospitable environment, whether that's on a leaf surface or on on the soil or both, that the activation of that biology is in effect. So the actual tank partnering and application, you know, shouldn't be a problem. Another question here, what is terafed versus CX1? So terafed is actually the molasses based product, the organic version of the LCBF product. And that is, you know, those sugars, carbohydrates, it's the blood of the molasses, you know, the sugarcane plant, the molasses in particular, is the food source for CX1. CX1 is a broad spectrum biological that ultimately contains over 4000 species of beneficial bacteria and fungi. So it's important that the combination of an LCBF product in an organic system, terafed in a conventional system, boost 721.3, you know, those other products would be combined together in order to have the effects that you'd be desired. So that's a good question. So what's the question? So what's the question? So what's the question? Then 10 gallons per acre is a pop-up. And a follow-up to that, what is terafed versus CX1? Question that same individual then had a follow-up question to that. So yeah, in a situation where you're looking at an organic application, we typically recommend that about five gallons of each, the terafed and the CX1. They're seed safe, they can go in furrow. And although they wouldn't necessarily carry a large NPK number, you know, they're going to liberate those nutrients and work more as a bio pop-up, you know, protecting that seed, getting that seed off to good start, germination, early rip development, and then leveraging that through the entire season to provide the end of season results that you're looking for from crop yield and nutrient density, crop quality. Good question. I think we'll close the session now. Please make sure that if you are looking for that continuing education unit credit, that half credit for nutrient management, to email marketing at midwesternbioag.com with your name and ID number. And the deadline to submit that is next Friday, May 1st. Safe planting, happy spring. And again, thanks for joining us today.