The fight against exploitation of migrant workers in Italy | DW Documentary
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PIPJ4eBBsbU
Education
 Seasonal migrant workers in Italy. Most of them harvest fruit and vegetables destined for elsewhere in Europe. They earn a pittance. Thousands of these migrants live in shanty towns where there is no electricity, no running water and no toilets. The city of Puglia is a very small town of Puglia. The city of Puglia is a very small town of Puglia. The city of Puglia is a very small town of Puglia. The city of Puglia is a very small town of Puglia. In mid-April, it is emptier than usual in Borgo Mezzanone, near the city of Foggia. This is one of Italy's largest informal settlements. Cousu Casama is a migrant worker. There is not much to harvest in Puglia at this time of year. There has been a lot of rain in the last few days, so work in the surrounding fields has ground to a halt. To pass the time, Cousu is visiting a neighbor who lives a few shacks away. This is my friend. I come to visit my friend. I bring a patient from him. It's like a vinto. He's my friend also. He's cooking. He's cooking food for us, okay? This is for you. Alright? This is the rice. I cooked this since yesterday. You know, I'm trying to warm it and I'm trying to cook some new soup for the... to eat. Yeah. Sometimes I eat once in a day, sometimes I don't even eat. Because if I said you will eat every day, the money will not be enough. The money will not be enough. That's why we have to cook a soup. You eat it for four days. Five days. Only thing you cook every day is rice. It's poverty. It's poverty. It's poverty, one can see. The life condition here is more worse than Africa really. Because many Obois living here, we did not expect we can have a place like this where we come from and you'll find another place like this in Africa. No, no. Kausou has recognized refugee status and is allowed to work in Italy. But seasonal work as a farmhand is all he's ever been able to find. I want better life. That's why I'm here. I came to Europe because I'm... the life I'm living in back home. It's no such thing to live there. So that's why I come to Europe. Kausou is 29 and has been in Europe for 12 years. He was 17 when he was rescued trying to cross the Mediterranean in a small boat. I'm from Gambia. Okay. I came to Libya. Then after Libya I came to Italy. But my purpose of coming to Italy, to make things short, we need better life. That's why we're here. Italy's agricultural sector relies on migrant workers like him. They come from Africa, India, and Pakistan. And once here, fall victim to what's known as the agro-mafia. The Italian trade union CGIL estimates that around 400,000 people are exploited or illegally employed in agriculture across the country. The mafia has infiltrated the industry. Caporali are mafioso who act as middlemen between farmers and laborers. They keep a close eye on the workers and make sure they produce as much as possible. Accompanying Kausou in the fields would be a risk for everyone. The mafia is too much here. They will take care of you to work and later they will walk, walk, walk, and later they will not pay your money. So you have to, what can you, how can you live? What can you do? You don't know where he's staying. You cannot request anywhere. I have no power to go and look for him. So you have to move on. You go and look for another place. Because when you walk for 10 days, 20 days or more than that later, she will not tell you, no, I'm not going to pay you. What can you do? This exploitation of field workers in Italy has been happening for over a century. In the past, the mafia exploited Italian laborers. Now the victims are migrants who are unable to defend themselves. But there are people who are fighting on their behalf. Ivan Sanye once worked in the fields of Puglia in southern Italy himself. He experienced exploitation firsthand and organized a protest. Today he campaigns for fair wages and decent working conditions in the agricultural sector. In 2011 he founded an organization that obliges producers to pay farm workers fair wages. It's called No Cap, as in No Caporale. Sanye is visiting a strawberry farm that works with the organization. Around 150 people work on this 150 hectare farm near Naples for 7 euro and 98 cents per hour. They have health insurance. Producer Michela Montella complies with the sector's wage agreement. Hello there. Let's go this way. How are you? Do you have a minute? Have you heard of No Cap? I'm Ivan. I'm Saiba. Saiba. Where are you from? Burkina Faso. Ah Burkina. Romania. Romania. Burkina Faso. Mali. Senegal. Gambia. That's how international Montella is. We're a family. That's right. That's good. I know you from last year. Hi. Good morning. We campaign for workers' rights. There are producers who aren't like Michela Montella, who exploit the workers and don't give them a contract. And even if they do, they pay badly. They pay the contract, but they don't pay well. Michela Montella is one of Europe's biggest producers of organic strawberries. Many of the fruit pickers come back here every year to work for him in the harvest season. Hi, Ali. All right? Good morning. Do you know Ivan? Yes, yes. We met during the potato harvest. How are you? How's your family? My family is good, thank the Lord. Thank the Lord. And how are you? I'm doing well. We're just checking how many hours you work a day. Seven? Not 20, right? Seven. Not 20, because some do 10, 12, 13. No, no, no, no. No, no, seven. It's fine. Okay. Do you get a pay slip? I always get a pay slip. Okay. Ivan Sanye exchanges telephone numbers with several of the workers and tells them to contact him if they have any problems. What's your full name? What's your full name? Kampaore Alidu. Kampaore. Kampaore. Kampaore. Okay. If I can help, I will. Your brother too, your friend. Give me a call. We'll help you. If you need a lawyer. If I have a problem with my documents, I'll contact you about a lawyer. Yes. Okay. We have a lawyer. 20 agricultural companies have joined the no-cap network. Since 2019, Ivan Sanye has helped around 1,500 migrants secure proper employment contracts. And the government is not able to help. You can help. You can help. You can help. You can help. You can help. You can help. You can help. You can help. You can help. You can help. You can help. You can help. You can help. You can help. You can help. You can help. You can help. You can help. This is the one thing that I've been doing. I'm sure I've been doing all this. Since 2019, Ivan Sanye has helped around 1,500 migrants secure proper employment contracts. It gives my life meaning. When I work, I'm happy. Because I try to make other people happy. When I see they're happy, it gives meaning to my existence. Otherwise life wouldn't be worth living. Living only for yourself makes no sense. We need to give happiness to the people around us, both privately and professionally. Ivan Sanje is on a mission to put a stop to the exploitation of workers in Italy's agricultural sector. But he never planned to be an activist. He originally wanted to be an engineer. Sanje was born in Cameroon in 1985. He came to Italy on a scholarship in 2007 to study. In the summer of 2011, he worked in the tomato fields of Puglia because he wanted to earn some extra money. The working conditions were terrible. On one particular day, I exploded with anger and that's how the strike began. He convinced thousands of harvest workers to stop working. It was an outright challenge to the mafia. We were threatened with guns, knives, fists and more. Sanje sparked a debate about the agro-mafia that paved the way for laws that criminalized the caporolato system. In 2017, he was awarded the Order of Merit of the Italian Republic. It's an honor and encouragement. It's an encouragement. It's an encouragement. It's an encouragement. In 2018, the NoCap organization that pushed for fair working conditions in agriculture was still in its infancy. A lot has happened since then. Today, NoCap is an established network and a brand. It's a winner www.casaving-youtrope.oooo What we are doing is Kyle Lapic seems to wipe the prick dibujs fully. Soars trước is a disaster in the 되지 context to Ryan Voraya. Hi guys, good morning. Come on, let's go. Tina Abonima has been working at a strawberry farm since last year. She picks up her fellow workers at the train station in Aversa, a small town near Naples. The minibus service is free. That's not something that can be taken for granted. Most field workers in southern Italy have to pay out of their own pocket to get to work. The black market bosses use the shuttle service as a way of cutting the workers' wages. Tina Abonima drives a minibus provided by Ivan Sagné's organization. When it's harvest season in southern Italy, 20 no-cap buses take 350 people to work, free of charge, every day. Tina and her team pack strawberries that grow in Michela Montella's fields into plastic trays. They're destined for major supermarket chains in Germany, Denmark and other countries in Europe. The organic strawberries are about 30% more expensive than ones produced on other farms where workers are exploited. The shift is seven hours long, including a one-hour break. No-cap regularly checks that the working hours are adhered to. If you go to Ivan no-cap, you will not be exploited. That's why everybody must come to no-cap. Everybody must know about no-cap so that people will not be exploited. In this sector, here I get 1,100 or 1,150. I got here. Depends. When I come to work, if I don't miss anything, sometimes I miss out because I have kids. I have kids. With her other jobs, she earns about 800 euros a month, but often works longer shifts than she does here. Connecto, cappuccino. They don't get pastries like these anywhere else either. It feels like a family. My group, even working for Michela, feels like a family. She'll work for Michela Montella for three months. But after the harvest, he won't have any more work for her. The migrant workers are used to having to scramble from job to job. I am not totally free from exploitation. It is only here I'm not exploited. If I go for cleaning, I will be exploited. If I go for other jobs, exploitation everywhere. But Sanseño Ivan is doing his best for this sector. I love farming. My grandparents, they were farmers. So one day, maybe one day when I go back to my country, I will try to make a farm. It's a passion. Even my mother, she's still farming in a little backyard. So it's something that we just love. We love to see the land. Yeah, it's a beautiful thing. Tina Abonima is treated well on Michela Montella's strawberry farm. But his farm is an exception. Most field workers labor in terrible conditions. There are deaths every year. From heat, on the fields, or in accidents with overloaded trucks. The notorious Borgo Mezzanone slum grew up on the runway of a disused airport. Fires have broken out here in this sprawling, chaotic shanty town. People have died. In April, it's emptier than usual. Many of the people who live here have moved to Calabria for the orange harvest. The mafia even makes money from Borgo Mezzanone, building houses and renting them out to workers. Kausu Kasama is one of the few skilled laborers here. He's good at bricklaying, plumbing, and repairing roofs. But he can't conjure water out of nowhere. See, there's no water here. This is how we normally carry water. But today, there is no water. So, for now, yeah, for now we cannot do anything. So, we have a water problem. Twice a week, an aid organization fills the tanks with drinking water. But it's not enough. If anyone arrives too late, they get nothing. It seems like Africa, because Africa also is somehow water problems. You have many problems like water. Yeah, that one too. People need good life to change. That's why many people came, because they now want good life, because of some of the things like this. The slum first emerged some 20 years ago, a collection of makeshift shacks of cardboard and plastic. These days, there are also buildings erected by the mafia, where residents have to pay rent of about 50 euro a month for a home without a toilet. They have no choice but to use the surrounding fields. It's very difficult. That's not life. Life without a toilet, because every day you are eating, you are drinking water, you need to come out. You need to digest yourself. So, if you don't have toilet, it's not good at all. Ensuring access to water and sanitation for all is one of the goals of the United Nations Agenda 2030. Toilets are a recognized human right that has been ignored by the authorities in southern Italy for years. The state tolerates the inhumane conditions. The official refugee camp in Foggia, which has a water supply and sanitary facilities, is located right next to the slums, where some 5,000 people live during the tomato harvest. But it's not just toilets that are lacking. The residents of Borgo Mezzanone are also cut off from the Internet. Ivan Sanye believes free access to the Internet is crucial. In the slums church, he's meeting up with a man who shares his faith and approves of his mission. Sanye hopes to persuade Pastor Charles to support his plan for an Internet café inside the church. I hope that more people want to send email. If you want to send email, you come to send email. Like the Internet office. You don't go into Foggia to go to Abraham or anything, but you have anything here. This is the project. Okay? Very simple. I really thank you all for the effort. May God bless you and may God please your business in the mighty name of Jesus Christ. Thank you. Thank you. Amen. Amen. I am very happy. Yes, yes. I am very happy. Thank you. Can you take a picture of me? Take a photo of me, the priest and the computer. I am very happy. On the computer. Yes. It is about making it easier to access the Internet so they can send emails, make photocopies. If they need to make a copy of their residence permit or ID card, then they have to travel to Foggia, which is far away. We are going to Foggia, which is far away. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. It goes ahead,切DSus, and it looks like theüst-johnsabella. So we make the best, right there. with producers to sell fresh vegetables and tomato passada certified with the no cap logo crazy no cap i'm so moved stop caporalato no cap it's all regional produced in collaboration with no cap it's organic and it's ethical wow no cap products are around a third more expensive than conventionally produced products they're on prominent display in this store thanks to the manager whom ivan sanier has known for years hi director how's it going it's going well customers appreciate the products because of the quality and the social aspect we live in a region where the problem is deeply rooted some people welcome the initiative they're very open to buying no cap goods the support of the supermarket chains is very important it allows for an ethical supply chain and helps improve conditions for the workers and also the companies it's all a question of price right the price around 300 000 no cap cans and bottles of tomato passada are sold every year this is a fraction of the more than six million tons of tinned tomatoes produced in italy every year mostly in inhumane conditions fairly produced goods are still niche products in this supermarket which heavily promotes the no cap products two out of ten customers choose them have you seen the stop caporalato products that's fennel right it's fennel the the my grand a joy it makes me very happy i'm very touched a few years ago i couldn't have imagined that our products would be on the shelves of a large supermarket imagine aval ds represented con in osi prodotti it's so gratifying to have achieved this result a the companies distributors and consumers all have to play their part it's a the the the the the yet eight out of ten customers still decide against no cap products basically allowing the exploitation of workers to continue even if they don't realize it there's no minimum wage in italy a minimum wage could definitely give workers stability it would at least provide them with a secure monthly income the the the most eu countries have a minimum wage in germany it was also wage dumping in the agricultural sector that prompted politicians to introduce legislation field workers like how sue kasama would benefit greatly from a minimum wage the right now he has another problem in order to extend his residence permit he needs a permanent address that's what everybody living in this place want to go and stay inside the town not here but due to conditions why people are here where some difficult difficulty of housing where to find houses and then you know that's the problem because if you go and look for houses somewhere they would not like to rent you they would say no we don't want black people to rent our houses something that's happening it's the kind of slavery that we are living here so you have to obey you have to obey what he said no matter condition it is you have to obey such because you want money so he's the one giving you work to do that's it it's a kind of slavery of course he's very close to that the government in rome is aware that there is widespread exploitation in the agricultural sector in 2016 a new law tackling forms of severe labor exploitation in agriculture was introduced in part thanks to ivan sanier he now lives in rome with his wife and two children he feels safer here than in the south his apartment is also his workplace from here he continues to campaign for the rights of migrant workers he says the country needs to understand their contribution to italy he says the country is the country is the country is the country is the country these people are helping boost the economy they're working for italy not just for themselves without migrants italian agriculture would be in trouble so it's the duty of the state to respond to the needs of these seasonal workers and across the country to provide them with accommodation but it looks like the government isn't interested we're at a standstill right now things are going backwards the people who are not going backwards they're not going backwards Ivan sanier wants to put an end to criminal exploitation of migrants he's planning to launch no cap in spain portugal and greece where workers are also faced with inhumane conditions that he experienced himself with the温慢 units that he experienced was that they suffered a padre one that these individuals were allerdings Ant