Farm Diversification - Ideas on Alternative Crops
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PK2aEBnJS88
Education
 This is Mid-Atlantic Women in Agriculture's Wednesday webinar, Farm Diversification, Ideas on Alternative Crops. Our presenter today is Andrew Ristve, Extension Specialist with the University of Maryland. Andrew has provided his email address, so since this is pre-recorded, all questions can be sent to him directly. To watch archived presentations or to see a list of upcoming Wednesday webinars, please visit our website. And a special thank you to our sponsors. Thank you for listening. Again, my name is Andrew Ristve. I'm an Extension Specialist with Commercial Horticulture for the University of Maryland Extension. Today's program webinar is the Farm Diversification Profitability with Specialty Fruits and Vegetables. This is actually a program overview to a December 15th workshop that we did here at Y Research and Education Center on the Eastern Shore of Maryland. It was a program designed to give people, people with a little bit of land, a little bit or a lot of land, some ideas on how to diversify their farm for profitability. Essentially, looking at different fruits and vegetables and other alternative crops that can be grown for profit. We had a wonderful group of speakers and I took the liberty of taking snippets out of each of their talks and developing this program overview. So why don't we get started? So we had Ginger Myers, Extension Specialist, Agriculture and Marketing Specialist. Kim Rush Lynch, again, another Agriculture and Marketing Specialist with the University of Maryland Extension. Both of them are excellent at helping you find markets for your products. Assistant Professor, Department of Food and Safety and Biotechnology, Rohan Takekar. He presented interesting information about the Food Safety Modernization Act. Paul Geringer, Extension Legal Specialist, came from the Department of Agriculture and Resource Economics. Stanton Gill, my colleague over at the Central Maryland Research and Education Center. He's an Extension Specialist for Horticulture and Floriculture and also co-owner of McBride Gill, Falcon Ridge Farms, and Carroll County. Yallin Fanshawe, a friend from the University of the District of Columbia, an Agriculture and Horticultural Specialist, talked about ethnic specialty crops and the programs that he's doing over at the District of Columbia. Dave Myers, a colleague, an Extension Educator of Horticulture and Agriculture over at the Central Maryland Research and Education Center in Upper Marlborough. And then finally, and last and certainly not least, Ginny Rosencrantz, Extension Educator for Horticulture and Floriculture, had a discussion on cut flowers. So why don't we get started? Oh yes, and of course me, putting a face to the voice. I'm an Extension Specialist for Horticulture here at Y Research and Education Center. I'm a State Research Farm on the banks of the Y River. And here I am doing research trials on a variety of different specialty crops along with the people that we're going to be speaking or that will be along with the talks that we've had with this program back in December 15th. Hopefully you'll get some ideas at the end of this program. So let's start. The program started out with marketing. Both Ginger Myers and Kim Rush Lynch did a tag team in helping you find markets for your fruits and vegetables and vegetables and ag products, basically gave you ideas on how to go about your marketing, whether it was with social media and good ideas on how to go about marketing your farm and products. As I said before, the Food Safety Modernization Act, which is a new FDA program, regulations based on making sure our food supply is safe. Recently, in the past few years, we've had a lot of outbreaks, certainly in the news. They're quite common on different problems we've had with our food supply, whether restaurants or even in grocery stores. This Food Safety Modernization Act is meant to create a pathway for helping greater safety in our food products. It may or may not affect a good portion of you, but it's a good idea to know this FDA regulatory act and also know a little more about good agricultural practices. We have a good agricultural practice program at the University of Maryland, and it might be something that if this webinar series hasn't included, it might be something that we might want to include soon. And as I said before, we have a running program that goes throughout the state to help farmers become certified in good agricultural practices. As I said before, Paul Geringer talked about the legal resources that the University of Maryland offers farmers with the Agricultural Law Education Initiative. Again, there's a website down there, which if you're curious about what that all is about, you can get into that website and check out that program. So let's talk about the specialty crops, ideas for diversification. So diversifying a farm is like, you know, it's diversifying a stock portfolio and basically spreads your risk. Certainly if you have underperforming stocks in one area, other stocks might be doing better. In the same light, if you've got a variety of different fruits and vegetables on your farm that you might be selling for profit, having maybe potentially a disease, insect issues might take down one of your crops. You have other crops that you can still turn back on for profit. And essentially, you know, when you have more crops, it increases your potential profit in general. And also the good thing about having more crops is that you have a larger window of sales throughout the year. So I talk about alternative crops and a lot of people ask me, well, what's an alternative crop? Well, alternative crop is anything that's not a row crop. Essentially, there's a higher value per unit of land when you're growing alternative or specialty crops, whether it's flowers or fruits and vegetables. And today I'll be discussing a variety of these crops potentially with good potential for profit and discuss with you some of the things that our presenters gave us in the December 15th program, or the December 2015 program. So we first started off with Stanton Gill. And as I said before, Stanton Gill is an extension specialist, and he also owns one of the most diversified farms that I know of in Maryland, up in Carroll County. And he brought several suggestions on what potentially could be sold as specialty crops, high value specialty crops in the Maryland area. The first one he discussed was Amelanchier or serviceberry. For a very long time, these fruit have been used probably very important food for Native Americans. In Canada, they're pretty popular. And there are a few varieties that Stanton has been working with on his farm. This is a tree fruit about the size of a very large blueberry. It has a flavor of blueberry and an apple kind of mixed together. Excellent flavor. They ripen in late May to late June, depending on the coolness of the spring. You can see the wild species blooming in the forests of Maryland sometime in mid-April. And then the fruit soon after develops. Stanton sells a pint of these for $5. He suggests Northline Saskatoon for a bigger size and excellent flavor. There are a few problems that Amelanchier has in the environment. One in particular is since it's in the rose family, it gets Gymnospherangium or rust. In particular, cedar apple rust or quince cedar rust. And both of those can be problematic. Basically, it just wipes out the fruit yield and can damage the stems on the plant. It doesn't kill the tree but takes out the harvest. What you can do, though, is use fungicides at the beginning of the growing season. One or two sprays usually cures the problem and you have no problem with the fruit later on. An additional problem is probably birds. I think Stanton maintains his trees around seven foot high so he can easily harvest but I think he's also covering them. I do believe he's trying to grow these in high tunnels too. So bird issues may be another problem with this fruit. Stanton went on to talk about hardy kiwi. Hardy kiwi is native to Japan, Korea, northern China, and Russian Siberia. This is a very interesting fruit. It has a nice texture and sweet flavor. Compared to the ones we typically see in the grocery store, these are rather small comparatively, maybe a quarter of the size. You can see that the skin on these is not hairy. It's fleshy and, in fact, you eat the whole fruit itself. Stanton has put in several varieties at his farm in Carroll County. And he has built a trellis, as you can see here on the slide. The trellis has three or four wires going across. It's a T-shaped trellis. He's trained the vines to go up that trellis and then he just picks the fruit from underneath. Penn State and Cornell University determined that more pollination occurs from wind than from traditional methods such as pollinators. So typically you put your male vines placed on the prevailing wind side so that during the spring your fruit can be pollinated through the wind. Stanton says when these are mature in about seven years they can yield up to 50 pounds of fruit per vine. And like I said, he's very happy with the varieties that he has growing up at his farm. And, again, I can get you more information about any of this later on if you make sure you have my email. And so you can always contact me for any questions you may have about this program today. Stanton then went on to red currants. It's an exceptional market for European clientele because Eastern Europeans are very much used to this fruit. And where he has his farm markets he does have an Eastern European clientele that often buy from him. He has a couple different suggestions for red currants. Jean-Chiro van Tetz, an early season current, has excellent flavor and very important disease resistance. Rovada is a late season current that he's suggesting we grow. As far as black currants, he's suggesting consort. It's one variety he's thinking that you should try. One thing about disease is that the white currants have good flavor, but they're virus prone. And that can be very problematic. He kind of warns you to stay away from those in particular. Like his kiwi, Stanton has trained his currants to go on a trellis for easier picking. As you can see here in this picture, kind of a rabbit fence was put up. And they're growing on this particular trellis. Finally, as far as fruit goes, this is a very interesting one. Melon or Chi-Chi fruit. Stanton says this one tastes like watermelon. He's gotten really good sales off of this. And although some people think it tastes closer to cantaloupe. This particular berry ripens late in late October. So it actually gives you another interesting window for farm market sales. Stanton also talked about not only growing crops, but actually processing them. Something that he suggested, potentially anyway, something that they do in Japan is called apple wrapping. With many of these larger fruit, even grapes and things, you need sunlight to start that ripening process. Or at least getting the appropriate color on the fruit. In Japan, they take apples and they wrap them. Keep them from the sunlight so that while the apple is ripening, it doesn't turn color. So you have these very interestingly colored, very pale apples, which are completely ripe. They're just not red. Some other very interesting things that they do in Japan is actually putting on appliques onto the apple. So during the ripening process, certain parts underneath that appliqué, these stickers, sunlight does not reach them. And you can actually create a stencil shape on an apple. So during that ripening process, you put these stickers on and then you have these stencil-like writings on the apples. They act like high contrast negatives on these apples, these stickers. Some have sayings on them like best wishes. Like for instance, I think Stanton had mentioned that they were being used in a marriage ceremony or a marriage dinner and they were passed out as gifts. And basically, they went into the names of the brides and the groom and best wishes on them. Interestingly enough, Stanton heard of one Japanese pop star who put his picture on these apples to give to his entourage for presents. So interesting things you can do with the fruit in that light. We went on with Yao and Fanchao, Ethnic Specialty Crops. He gave an overview of his program that he has at the University of the District of Columbia. As we know, the United States is a melting pot of different cultures. The common ethnic groups we have are Hispanic, African, Asian, European. And each of these cultures has different cultural foods that we may be able to capitalize on. If you know what particular cultures are in your location. For instance, according to the 2010 census, 1.2 million foreign born persons are living in Washington, D.C. Metro area. In particular, 162,000 African born immigrants are in the metro area. And these immigrants, they're very much interested in having their own foods, their own cultural foods. He did a study looking at the demands of crops and what was available. So the most demanded crops he found were garden egg and hot peppers. Kittalee and jute leaf, water leaf. All of these were suggested that were in highest demand. They were also the least available. The hot peppers and the jute leaf. All of these are potential profit makers in certain areas, especially the Washington, D.C. area. The consumer preferences, of course, were fresh. And most of the time they're coming in either frozen. And so there is that market, that potential market, if you're willing to go that direction with certain foods. Some of these foods that he was referring to, I'll list out here. One in particular is called garden eggs. It's in the tomato family, solanum, athiopicum. It's also known as an African eggplant. Many different other associated names. Even the leaf is eaten as a vegetable and can be more nutritious than the fruit. I think it's, he stated that the garden egg is one of the most important vegetable crops grown in West Africa and especially Ghana. So there is a, there's a potential for having these available and for potential profits. Gbolma, another solanum is also called African eggplant. It's grown in many West African countries and probably occurs in most all of the coastal countries in Africa. And again, several of these, these, these, these, these, these plants as cultivars can be found in South America and the Caribbean. So that there, again, there's these potentials of, of, of plants like this. Avuvo is a, is in the Amaranth family. It's a celosia. And it grows widespread across South Africa and tropical Africa, West Indies, South, East and Southeast Asia. So there's a variety of potential cultures that may be interested in utilizing this. It's a cultivated, nutritious, leafy green vegetable. An interesting fruit is called Kittali. It was one of the ones that were in, in demand in, in, in Yao's survey. It looks like a cross between an eggplant and a green tomato. Uh, gilo is originally from Africa. It was brought to Brazil with a slave trade where it's grown, it's still grown in West Africa and in some countries it's known as garden eggs. Um, I am interestingly enough growing some of, uh, very similar vegetables here, uh, at Y Research in high tunnel trials. I'll talk about those later on. Uh, and, uh, and, and, and, and can be used as greens or in combination with other vegetables, uh, or with meat or fish. Traditionally how it's, uh, been, uh, been, uh, been, been, been, been, utilized. Uh, it's also, uh, been, been-in, uh, been a green vegetable in Sierra Leone in Sierra Leone, West Africa. vegetable the leaves consist of five slender lobes which are edible as a green leafy vegetable either in salads or cooked and and and can be used as greens or in combination with other vegetables or meat or fish traditionally how it's been been been utilized it's also used for tea in Asia and Africa hot pepper the scotch bonnet in the habanero class of peppers of course one of the hottest peppers in the world these are in demand and as you saw from that survey one of the more important varieties of peppers that are that are wanted in the in the farm markets so these are relatively simple to grow and and and can yield probably a pretty decent price something to also consider for your farm markets juteleaf again another highly valued alternative crop for for for African cultures it's can be grown here and it's a leading a leaf vegetable in the Ivory Coast Benin Nigeria Cameroon several other countries in Africa it's also a cultivated in the Caribbean Brazil India Bangladesh so so again with with this particular type of crop it's possible to capture a lot of different ethnic cultures and interests with with with in growing one of these so jama jama or the African huckleberry this is very similar to a crop that I'm growing in the in the high tunnel right now in my high tunnels right now and I can give you again more information about this one if you're interested these have a flavor of kind of a melon a sweet melon flavor interestingly enough it is also being used as a leafy green as the same way as a mustard or collard greens I'm not sure exactly how it's prepared if it's fresh or if it has to be cooked I'm thinking since it's in the Solanum family these probably need to be cooked and and so again preparation is not my area specialty something that yow could certainly speak to finally a water leaf it's another leafy vegetable that's that's that's has some demand in the district and the district markets for all of these getting the seeds and potentially getting transportation getting these to market you may want to contact yow or you can contact me in particular and I can try to find ways of getting you these seeds from yow and in his work group so go on to another potential ethnic crop if you notice any of these recognize any of these logos I'm sure that you go to your grocery store and and you can see several of the liquor stores and you can see at least 30 or 40 different varieties of beer in in your stores I can I can I can attest to the fact that 30 years ago I would have never figured that I'd see so many craft breweries popping up and craft beers in the stores available to us this is a rather interesting source if you know that that that that that the beer is primarily made with four ingredients water barley or some other grain yeast and hops hops gives the flavoring characteristics of the beer because in 2015 the number of breweries peaked since the late 1800s in the United States there is quite a demand on on the on the products are on the the the the materials that go into beer making especially hops hops has been a hops has been in fact that the price of hops has gone up quite a bit because of the use because of all these microbreweries popping up and putting a strain on the supplies therefore a lot of small growers are considering putting hops yards up on their land this is an interesting proposition we had been considering doing some research here at the University of Maryland and we are starting hops trials at three different research farms our central Maryland research and education center at Simrec and basically started up by David Myers who I had introduced to you at the beginning of the program he put one up in 2013 and has some interesting data to share with you at the Western Maryland research and education center in Keatiesville a hops yard went up for testing 12 different varieties of hops here at why research I put in a small hops yard I'm testing four different varieties and plan on putting in more what we found is that what we're interested in the University of Maryland hops trials is basically develop a needs assessment for for our hops growers and our brewers find out what they need from us we want to understand the cultural requirements of several of these varieties of hops that are being utilized in the brewery industry what we want to know more is which varieties will grow best in Maryland and where in Maryland do they grow best on top of that what are their cultural requirements what are the things we need to be looking for disease issues pest issues all of these we want to kind of nail down and provide potential research opportunities for new questions that may come up with our growers we're going to be recording harvest yields we also want to know what kind of what the quality of the hops that we would be growing the alpha and beta acids that that are so necessary for for for the for making good beer we want to develop Maryland based extension programs for hops growers and in doing so we'll have these these programs ready for us and such I think that that that in one of the the programs that we had over at Simrec upper Marlboro the we were growing about 2000 or what Dave Myers was able to figure out from his small hops yard is he's averaging about between 800 and 2000 pounds of fresh hops per acre so that there's that there's that potential one of the problems that we do have with hops and if you are considering growing hops in your yard is you really want to get a hold of the breweries that are in your local area because they're going to be because they're going to be your ultimate market for your hops the one thing that we do know in in hops harvesting is that that that has to be either dried very quickly to a 12% moisture content or used immediately because within a day your hops quality can really break down and so what breweries are really interested in is dry pelletized hops and and I know that there are there is an association in Virginia that that is that is got a pelletizer and dryer system but for the average grower with just growing a small amount of hops the best use for that and if you can't dry and pelletize immediately is to do session brews so you want to take your hops immediately over to a brewery and they can do a seasonal batch and they can do a little bit of fresh and they can do a little bit of fresh and they'll be using your hops and there's a few breweries that already decided that they want to do that in Maryland so that's the potential so my suggestion with hops is to contact your breweries and find out if they'd be interested in any fresh hops batches next on next it's a you can't get up you can't have a program from me without me talking about aronia aronia aronia is a small fruit in the poem and the poem family basically an apple or pear family they are this particular fruit has a very high antioxidant content the parent plant of the cultivated variety right now is native to Maryland and a good portion of the east coast of the United States the marketability of this crop is because of its antioxidant content one of the problems that we are having right now with this crop is the fact that not many people know about it there are two associations in the United States which are promoting the use of this crop promoting the purchase of this by marketing basically by educating consumers this crop can be used by freezing you can throw them in your smoothies you can bake with it you can make syrups and jams and jellies so there's a value added potential I've got a a grower in meridale who's making wine with this fruit he won third place in the great and the was it the finger lakes international wine contest for fruit wine so he's doing a relatively good job with it our vineyard specialist and enologist Joe Fiola is experimenting with different different recipes for aronia wine so there are some potential markets for aronia right now and right now I know the growers who are managing this crop either managing either selling it with individually quick frozen IQF or actually making a value added product with it are really focused on marketing themselves so that might be a so if you are interested in this particular crop it might be one of those things where you might want to look at your potential markets and develop a market plan in general this this particular crop is relatively easy to grow it's got a few problems it's got Japanese beetle and which is a which can be problematic but it can be grown organically us and several of our growers are certified organic and and and and and very few disease problems so it is a relatively easy crop to grow compared to many other fruit crops that we have growing in Maryland I'm doing on I am doing ground cherry and fruiting nightshade high tunnel trials as I said before that these are some of the things that I'm working on ground cherry and fruiting nightshade high tunnel trials that these are some of the things that I'm working on nightshade high tunnel trials as I said before that these are some of the things that I'm working on. Ground cherries are a type of basically that's like a husk cherry. I think you're all familiar with tomatillos in the grocery store. This is a crop that's been popping up in grocery stores around Maryland. I've noted that in Harris Teeter these little ground chairs are being sold in little clam packs for about ten or twelve for four dollars. So it is really a relatively high priced product, a very highly valued fruit product. Phypsalis peruviana is the species I think we're using in Peru. It's called a chuva. The cape gooseberry is another common name for it or goldenberry which is what you're going to see in the United States quite often. In France they have the name which I really enjoy, Amour en Kage. And believe me these fruit have really interesting flavor. Cross between a pineapple and a cherry or something like that. It is really interesting. A very high value crop. We are doing variety testing at why as I said before. I'm looking at Gigante and Goldenberry. Those two particular varieties. And what we're really interested in also is to look at the phytochemical content. Especially some of the phytochemicals like like lycopene and things like that that are very healthy for you. Additionally I'm looking at several a couple different fruiting nightshades in the solanum. I'm variety testing this one called Wonderberry, Solanum nigrum. Interestingly enough it's not not it doesn't look too different from the one that Yau had had referred to earlier. It's a rather small fruit. Tastes like a melon. And I'm harvesting these at about a little over a pound per plant each week. I have noticed that these are rather fragile and it's something that we might want to try to be real careful with. I think what we need to do is actually clip the hole instead of trying to pick the fruit that way. I want to clip the vine like you see vine ripened tomatoes. They're on the stalk. I think this is keeping them on the stalk is the best way to preserve this fruit. Additionally there's another one called Solanum vellosum or Golden Pearls. Also a flavorful little fruit about the same size as the Wonderberry. Additionally these are typically kept on the stalk because these are fragile. Lastly I can't get away with talking about alternative crops without discussing cut flowers. Cut flowers can be a very high value especially at your farm markets. I brought Ginny Rosencrantz to discuss cut flowers with you. I don't have enough time to go through all the cut flowers that she discussed but she was able to supply me with several handouts. They're available for you. Cut flowers for high tunnels, woody cuts to consider, and adding cut flowers to increase your profit. Basically a list of different cut flowers you may consider. So when you think of cut flowers Ginny brought up three different types of cut flowers that you may consider. Certainly with annuals you've got a variety of different colors. They're relatively easy to grow. The thing about annuals is that you can change them up each year depending on on the request that you may have. And what you have is you'll have color all summer with the different annuals that you might be growing. This is an interesting one. This is another Celosia and very interestingly enough it looks a lot like one of the plants that Yao had introduced earlier also. So when it comes to perennials you have specific bloom periods but you do have spectacular flowers with perennials and something to consider when it comes to cut flowers. And then finally woody plants. There are a variety of woody plants that are utilized in the industry whether it's fresh or dry. You can really spread out your season when it comes to woody plants even picking them, harvesting them in the winter time. And that kind of concludes the overview of the December program. And I would be more than happy to answer any questions you have on chat. As you can see right there I've got my email address. You're more than welcome to to email me. And I'd be more than happy to get you in contact with any one of the presenters that I summarized here today. Thank you for watching our archived presentation of our Wednesday webinar. If you would like to see more archived Wednesday webinars please visit our YouTube channel or to find a schedule of upcoming live webinars visit our website.