Slowing Down with the Animals: A Farm Life Reflection
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pqrGmibXsk8
Pets & Animals
 Morning time is one of the best times on the farm to walk around and just look at stuff and think. Sometimes it's hard during the day when there's so much stuff going on that you kind of lose track of the goals because you're in the hustle and bustle of the day and staff's here and there's vendors here and everybody's being fed and everybody's being watered and the kids are up running around and somebody calls you or texts you. It's like the first part of the day is so peaceful. There's no staff here yet. Everybody's still asleep. No vendors showing up yet. No hay deliveries. It's early and it's the perfect time to walk around and just think about goals and the animals. It's also the time when things are most peaceful here. So as soon as the side-by-sides start going and, you know, 8.30 hits and the animals are ready to eat and then, you know, everybody starts getting really excited. But right now is that time of day where it's not quite daytime yet and everybody's just hanging out, waiting. There's like a palpable anticipation of how the day is going to be. And I think springtime is the best time to come out in the morning because not only is there this anticipation of the day, there's like the anticipation of the season. You know, what's coming up next? The trees are getting ready to bud. The animals are getting ready to have babies. The grass is getting ready to grow. It's just like there's so many things about to happen. And it's so exciting being here. You know, in the background you can hear the birds. I can hear a turkey in somebody else's yard. Like you can almost see the crops starting to come up in the field across from us. There's just that springtime energy. It's so much different here than it was when we used to live in a neighborhood or work at a job. You know, you would get up in the morning, you jump in your car, you go to work. And you'd see all those things happening around you. But here you like, you get to experience it and live it and feel it and touch it. And it's just much different. Over the past couple of years, as I have gotten older. Boy, that makes me sound really old. As I have aged like a fine wine. I have embraced something that a friend told me a long time ago. And it was that not everything has to be perfect. Not everything has to be done today. And sometimes you just need to stop and experience what's going on around you. Because otherwise, what are we doing all of this for? So, if you get the chance today, stop and experience what's going on around you. Because today is not going to ever happen again. You can't remember to hear. That's the time. That's the time. That's, like, good news. Bye-bye. Bye-bye. Bye. Bye-bye. Bye. Bye-bye. Bye-bye.