The Secret Life of a Farm Wife in 1900- The Past Said It Better - Thank God for Feminism!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pswKlW1jz-4
People & Blogs
 He's just so awful! Like, oh yeah, you're gonna fail, so like, don't tell anyone. And I mean, even if they don't steal your money, like, don't tell anyone. Welcome to McBurdo's expedition into the unknown and terrible. We have been stuck here in the ice for an eternity. Come into the captain's cabin and warm yourself before you head back out onto the decks. Welcome to my cabin. How long have we been trapped in this infernal ice pack? Or in the summer, tropical estuary? Today I shall read to you from my selection of innumerable primary sources, because the past said it better. Writers can embellish on a story that they've heard, but hearing the words of someone who actually witnessed an event, sometimes. It's shocking. Always amazing. I have not read this before, so we're going to experience it together. I'm going to break in with my opinions. Chances are, as you are a crew member of the HMS Measer, you are not easily upset by the dark and terrible. None of these are very happy. The odd one is, it's a surprise. I will warn you now that these may not have the most politically acceptable ideas or language, because they come from the past, and things were different then. So make yourself comfy. Grab yourself a suitable beverage. And let us block out this howling wind together. So today is a little different. We're going to cover something a little in keeping with International Women's Day, which literally just was yesterday. So I don't know when this will go out, but that's when I recorded it. The story of an Illinois farmer's wife, exactly as she penned it. And this book was published in 1906. It is life stories of undistinguished Americans as told by themselves. And the life that she has, and I must say, it is not a life I would want. I've seen excerpts of this. I've not read the whole thing. But it made me very happy that I had the opportunities that I have had. I have been a farmer's wife in one of the states of the Middle West for 13 years. And everyone knows that the farmer's wife must of necessity be a very practical woman if she would be a successful one. I am not a practical woman and consequently have been accounted a failure by practical friends and especially by my husband who is wholly practical. That doesn't sound happy. We are told that the mating of people of opposite natures promotes intellectuality in the offspring, but I think that happy homes are of more consequence than extreme precocity of children. However, I believe that people who are thinking of mating do not even consider whether it is to be one or the other. It seems so weird to, like, people who are planning on mating. Like, okay. It just seems such a weird way of putting it. We do not know that when people of opposite tastes get married, there is a discordant note that runs through their entire married life. This is not a happily married woman at all. It's only a question of which one has the stronger will in determining which tastes shall predominate. In our case, my husband has the stronger will. He is innocent of book learning. That's a really nice way of putting it. He's an ignorant swine. As a natural hustler who believes that the only way to make an honest living lies in digging it out of the ground. I always think of hustlers being like someone who hustles people, not hustles themselves. So to speak. And being a farmer, he finds plenty of digging to do. He has an inherited tendency to be miserly. Love is money for its own sake rather than for its purchasing power. And when he has it in his possession, he is loath to part with it, even for the most necessary articles, and prefers to eschew hired help in every possible instance that what he does may be his very own. Again, that just seems overwhelmingly bitter. No man can run a farm without someone to help him, and in this case, I have always been called upon and expected to help do anything that a man would be expected to do. I began this when we were first married, and when there were few household duties and no reasonable excuse for refusing to help. I was reared on a farm, was healthy and strong, was ambitious, and the work was not disagreeable, and having no children for the first six years of married life, the habit of going whenever asked to became firmly fixed, and he had no thought of hiring a man to help him, since I could do anything for which he needed help. Mmm. Start as you mean to go on, my dear, dear lady of the past. I was always religiously inclined, brought up to attend Sunday school, not in a haphazard way, but to attend every Sunday, all the year round, and when I was 12 years old, I was appointed teacher to a Sunday school class, a position I proudly held until I married at 18 years of age. So, she's 31. I was an apt student at school before I was 18. I had earned a teacher's certificate of the second grade, and would gladly have remained in school a few more years, but I had, unwittingly, agreed to marry the man who is now my husband, and though I begged to be released, his will was so much stronger that I was unable to free myself without wounding a loving heart, and could not find it in my nature to do so. He asked her. She thought about it. At 18. And she changed her mind, and he was like, No, you will marry me! I love you so much! And apparently I need to have a... I don't know. A dralb? All through life, I found my dislike of giving a fence to be my undoing. When we were married and moved away from my home church, I fain would have adopted the church of my new residence, but my husband did not like to go to church, had rather go visiting on Sundays, and rather than have my right hand give a fence, I cut it off. I always had a passion for reading. During girlhood, it was along educational lines. In young womanhood, it was for love stories, which remained ungratified because my father thought it sinful to read stories of any kind, especially love stories. Later, when I was married, I borrowed everything I could find in the line of novels and stories and read them by stealth still, for my husband thought it a willful waste of time to read anything, and that it showed a lack of love for him, if I would rather read than to talk to him when I had a few minutes of leisure. And, in order to avoid giving a fence and still gratifying my desire, I would only read when he was not at the house, thereby greatly curtailing my already too limited reading hours. I just feel so sorry for this woman. In reading miscellaneously, I got glimpses now and then of great poets and authors, which aroused a great desire for a thorough perusal of them all. But up till the present time, I have not been permitted to satisfy this desire. As the years have rolled on, there was more work and less leisure, until it is only by the greatest effort that I may read current news. It is only during the last three years that I have had news to read, for my husband is so very penurious that he would never consent to subscribing for papers of any kind, and that old habit of avoiding that which would give offence was so fixed that I did not dare break it. The addition of two children to our family never altered or interfered with the established order of things to any appreciable extent. My strenuous outdoor life agreed with me, and even when my children were born, I was splendidly prepared for the ordeal and made rapid recovery. I still hoed and tended the truck, patches, and garden, still watered the stock and put out feed for them, still went to the hayfield and helped harvest and house the bounteous crops, still helped harvest the golden grain later on when the cereals ripened, often took one team and dragged ground to prepare the seedbed for weeks at a time, while my husband was using the other team on another farm which he owned several miles away. I feel like he could have hired someone, I'm just saying. While the children were babies, they were left at the house, and when they were larger they would go with me to my work. Now they are large enough to help a little during the summer and go to school in the winter. They help a great deal during the fruit canning season. In fact, can and do work at almost everything, pretty much as I do. All the season, from the coming in of the first fruits until the making of mincemeat at Christmas time, I put up canned goods for future use, gather up many bushels of field beans and other crops, usually raised on the farm, make sauerkraut, ketchup, pickles, etc. This is a vague, general idea of how I spend my time. My work is so varied that it would be difficult, indeed, to describe a typical day's work. Any bright morning, in the latter part of May, I am out of bed at four o'clock. After I have dressed and combed my hair, I start a fire in the kitchen stove, and while the stove is getting hot, I go to my flower garden and gather a choice, half-blown rows and a spray of bride's wreath, and arrange them in my hair and sweep the floors and then cook breakfast. That's so sweet. My mother used to put baby's breath in my hair. Eventually, my sister and I would say, No weeds, Mom! While the other members of the family are eating breakfast, I strain away the morning's milk, for my husband milks the cows while I get breakfast, and fill my husband's dinner pail, for he will go to work on our other farm for the day. By this time, it is half-past five o'clock. My husband has gone to his work, and the stock loudly pleading to be turned into the pastures. The younger cattle, a half-dozen steers, are left in the pasture at night, and I now drive the two cows a half-quarter mile and then, and turn them in with the others. Come back, and then there's a horse in the barn that belongs in a field where there is no water, which I take to the spring quite a distance from the barn, bring it back, and turn it into a field with the sheep, a dozen in number, which are housed at night. The young calves are then turned out into the warm sunshine, and the stock hogs, which are kept in the pen, are clamoring for feed, and then I carry a pail full of swill to them, and hasten to the house, and turn out the chickens, and put out feed and water for them, and it is perhaps 6.30 a.m. I have not eaten breakfast yet, but that can wait. I make beds next, and straighten things up in the living room, for I dislike to have the early morning caller find my house topsy-turvy. When this is done, I go to the kitchen, which also serves as the dining room, and uncover the table, and take a mouthful of food, occasionally as I pass to and fro at my work, until my appetite is appeased. By this time, the work is done in the kitchen, and it is about 7.15 a.m., and the cool morning hours have flown, and no hoeing is done in the garden yet, and the children's toilet has to be attended to, and churning has to be done. You know, you hear people today, and they're like, oh, yeah, I can barely do my job, and clean my house, and I have to say that it's a good thing I have a cabin boy, because my cabin is a mess most of the time. Finally, the children are washed, and the churning is done, and it's 8 o'clock, and the sun is getting hot, but no matter, weeds die quickly when cut down in the heat of the day, and I use the hoe to a good advantage until the dinner hour, which is 11.30 a.m. We come in, and I comb my hair, put fresh flowers in it, eat a cold dinner, put out feed and water the chicken, set a hen, perhaps sweep the floors again, sit down and rest, and read a few moments, and it is nearly 1 o'clock. I sweep the dooryard while I am waiting for the clock to strike the hour. I make and sew a flower bed, dig around some shrubbery, and go back to the garden to hoe until it is time to do chores at night. But ere long some hogs come up the back gate, through the wheat field, and I go to see what is wrong. I find that the cows have torn the fence down, and they too are in the wheat field. With much difficulty, I get them back to their own domain and repair the fence. I hoe in the garden till 4 o'clock, and I go into the house and get supper and prepare something for the dinner pail tomorrow. When the supper is ready, I set it aside, and I pull a few hundred plants of tomato, sweet potato, or cabbage for transplanting, set them in a cool, moist place where they will not wilt, and then I go after the horse. This is just exhausting to read, let alone to have to do. And then put them in the barn, call the sheep and house them, and go after the cows and milk them, feed the hogs, put down the hay for three horses, put oats and corn in their troughs, and set those plants and come in and fasten up the chickens, and it is dark. By this time it is 8 o'clock p.m. My husband has come home, and we are eating supper. When we are through eating, I make the beds ready, and the children and their father go to bed, and I wash the dishes and get things in shape to get breakfast quickly the next morning. It is now 9 o'clock p.m., and after a short prayer, I retire for the night. As a matter of course, there's hardly two days together which require the same routine, yet every day is as fully occupied in some way or other as this one, with varying tasks as the seasons change. In early spring, we plant potatoes, making plant beds, planting garden, early corn patches, setting strawberries, planting corn, melons, cow peas, sugar cane, beans, popcorn, peanuts, etc. Oats are sown in March and April, but I do not help do that, because the ground is too cold. Oh my goodness, he got someone to help him! Oh! So nice! Later in June, we harvest clover hay, in July Timothy hay, and August pea hay. Winter wheat is ready to harvest in the latter part of June, and the oats in the middle of July. These are the main crops supplemented by cabbages, melons, potatoes, tomatoes, etc. Fully half of my time is devoted to helping my husband, more than half during the active work season, and not much during the winter months. Only a very small portion of my time is devoted to reading. Oh, be guilty, woman! How dare you want to read to entertain yourself, you selfish, selfish creature! My reading material accumulates during the week, and I think I will stay home on Sunday and read, but as with many visitors on Sunday, I am generally disappointed. I sometimes visit my friends on Sunday because they are so insistent that I should, though I would prefer to spend the day reading quietly at home. I never had a vacation, but if I should be allowed one, I should certainly be pleased to spend it in an art gallery. As winter draws nigh, I make snug all the vegetables and apples and pumpkins and such things as would be damaged by being frozen, and gather the various kinds of nuts which grow in our wood to eat during the long, cold winter. My husband's work keeps him away from home during the day all the winter, except in extremely inclement weather, and I feed him water the stock which have been brought in off the pastures, milk the cows, and do all of the chores which are to be done about a farm in winter. By getting up early and hustling around, pretty lively, I do all this and countless other things, keep house in a crude, simple manner, wash, make, and mend our clothes, make rag carpets, cultivate, and keep more flowers than anybody in the neighborhood, raise some chickens to sell and some to keep, and even teach instrumental music sometimes. I don't even know how she has time to do this. I'd be like, yeah, no. I quit. Take your children. I'm off. I have always had an itching to write, and with all my multitudinous cares, I have written in a fitful way for several papers which do not pay for such matter, just because I was pleased to see my articles in print. Oh, that doesn't sound familiar. Not at all. I have a long list of correspondents who write regularly and often to me, and by hook and crook, I keep up with my letter writing for next to reading, I love to write and receive letters, though my husband says I will break him by buying so much writing material when, as a matter of course, I pay for it out of my own scanty income. I'm proud of my children and have, from the time they were young babies, tried to make model children of them. They were not spoiled as some babies are, and their education was begun when I first began to speak to them, with the idea of not having the work to do over later on. True, they did not learn to spell until they were old enough to start school, because I did not have time to teach them that, but in going around my work, I told them stories of all kinds in plain, simple language, which they could understand, and after once hearing a story, they could repeat it from their own way, which did not differ greatly from mine to anyone who cared to listen, for they were not timid or afraid of anybody. I have watched them closely and never have missed an opportunity to correct their errors until their language is as correct as that of the average adult as far as their vocabulary goes, and I have tried to make it as exhaustive as my time would permit. I must admit that there is very little time for a higher life for myself, but my soul cries out for it and my heart is not in my homely duties. They are done in a mechanical, abstracted way, not worthy of a woman of high ambitions, but my ambitions are along other lines. I do not mean to say that I have no ambition to do my work well and to be a model housekeeper, for I would scorn to slight my work intentionally. It is just this way. There are so many outdoor duties that the time left for household duties is so limited that I must rush through them with the view of getting each one done in the shortest possible time in order to get as many things accomplished as possible, for there is never time to do half as much as needs to be done. All the time that I have been going about this work, I have been thinking of things I have read, of things I have on hand to read when I get time, and of other things which I have a desire to read but cannot hope to while the present condition exists. As a natural consequence, there are, daily, numerous instances of absent-mindedness on my part, many things left undone that I really could have done by leaving off something else of less importance if I had not forgotten the thing of more importance. My husband never fails to remind me that it is caused by my reading so much and that I would get along much better if I should never see a book or paper and, while really, I would be distracted if all reading matters were taken away from me. I use an old-fashioned churn and the process of churning occupies from 30 minutes to 3 hours according to the condition of the cream and I always read something while churning, though that may look like a poor way to attain self-culture, yet if your reading is by nature to bring about that desirable result, one will surely be greatly benefited by these daily exercises. But if one is just reading for amusement, they might read a great deal more than that and not derive any great benefit, but my reading has always been for the purpose of becoming well-informed, and when knitting stockings for the family, I always have a book or paper in reading distance, or if I have a moment to rest or to wait on something, I pick up something and read during that time. I would even take a paper with me to the fields and read while I stop for a rest. I often hear ladies remark that they do not have time to read. I happen to know that they have a great deal more time than I do, but not having any burning desire to read, the time is spent in some other way, often spent at a neighbor's house gossiping about the other neighbors. I suppose it is impossible for a woman to do her best at everything which she would like to do, but I would really like to. I almost cut sleep out of my routine trying to keep up with all the rows I have started in on. In the short winter days, I just get the cooking and the house straightening done in addition to looking after the stock and the poultry and make a garment occasionally and wash and iron the clothes. All the other work is done after night by lamplight, and when the work for the day is over, or at least the most pressing part of it, and the family are all asleep and no one to forbid it, I spend a few hours writing or reading. It's just heartbreaking. It's absolutely heartbreaking. Like, she feels so guilty that she's reading while she's churning. Like, churn, churn, churn, churn, churn, churn, churn. I probably shouldn't be making this gesture. But, it's just drudgery. And her husband does not sound very nice. Let's face it. He does not. Oh, you'd be less distracted and more able to be my drudge if you just stopped reading, woman, and don't write. And don't take the money you earn and buy writing materials so that you can enjoy yourself doing something that I don't approve of. The minister who performed the marriage ceremony for us has always taken a kindly interest in our fortunes and knowing of my literary bent has urged me to turn it into account. But there seemed to be so little time and opportunity that I could not think seriously of it, although I longed for a literary career. But my education had been dropped for a dozen years or more and I knew that I was not properly equipped for that kind of venture. Yes, you are! You are! You are! This friend was so insistent that I was induced to compete for a prize in a short story contest in a popular magazine not long since, though I entered it fully prepared for a failure. about that time there came in my way the literature of a correspondence school which would teach, among other things, short story writing by mail. It set forth all the advantages of a literary career and proposed properly to equip its students in that course for consideration. This literature I greedily devoured and felt that I could not let the opportunity slip, though I despaired of getting my husband's consent. I presented him the remunerative I hate this word. I presented the remunerative side of it to him. But he could only see the expense of taking the course and wondered how I could find the time to spend in the preparation even if it should be profitable in the end. But he believed that it was all a humbug that they would get my money and I would hear from them no more. This man. I just... When I had exhausted my arguments to no avail, I sent my literary friend to him to try his persuasive powers. Oh yes, because a man could talk to another man. Oh yes, maybe you should let the little woman do a little bit of writing. Maybe she'd be happy because... haven't you noticed your wife is absolutely miserable? Oh, is that my outside voice? Sorry. The two of us finally gained his consent, but it was on the condition that the venture was to be kept profoundly secret, for he felt that there would be nothing but failure and he desired that no one should know of it and have... Do you? Do you mind? He's just so awful. Like, oh yeah, you're gonna fail, so like, don't tell anyone. And I mean, even if they don't steal your money, like, don't tell anyone. Contrary to his expectations, the school has proven very trustworthy and I am in the midst of a course of instruction which is very pleasing to me and I find time for study and exercise between the hours of 8 and 11 at night when the family are asleep and quiet. So now she's getting five hours a night of sleep. Well, when I was 31 I could do that, but no, I wasn't doing this kind of labor. I am instructed to read a great deal with a certain purpose and view, but that is impossible since I had to promise my husband that I would drop all my papers, periodicals, etc., for which I was paying out money for subscription before he would consent to my taking the course. This I felt willing to do that I might prepare myself for more congenial tasks. I hope to accomplish something worthy of note in the literary ways since I have been a failure in all other pursuits. One cannot be anything in particular as long as they try to be everything and my motto has always been strive to excel and it has caused worry wrinkles to mar my countenance because I could not, under the circumstances, excel in any particular thing. always want to, like, give her a hug. I have a few friends who are so anxious for my success that they are having certain publications of reading matter sent to me at their own expense. However, there's only a very limited number who know of my ambition. My friends have always been so kind as to not hint that I had not come up to their expectations in various lines but I inwardly knew that they regarded me as a financial failure. They knew that my husband would not allow the money that was made off the farm to be spent on the family but they still knew of other men who did the same. Yet the wives managed some way to have money of their own and to keep up the family expense and clothe themselves and the children nicely anyhow. But they did not seem to take into account that these thrifty wives had the time all for their own in which to earn a livelihood while my time was demanded by my husband to be spent doing things for him which would contribute to the general proceeds of the farm and yet add nothing to my income since I was supposed to look after my own resources for my spending money. When critical housewives spend the day with me I always feel that my surroundings appear to a disadvantage. They cannot possibly know the inside workings of our home and knowing myself to be capable of the proper management of the home if I had a chance of others I feel like I am receiving a mental criticism from them which is unmerited and when these smart neighbors tell me proudly how many young chicks they have and how many eggs and old hens they have sold during the year I am made to feel like they are crowing over their shrewdness which they regard as lacking in me because they will persist in measuring my opportunities by their own. I might add that the neighbors among whom I live are illiterate and unmusical and that my redeeming qualities in their eyes are my superior education and musical ability. They are kind enough to give me more than justice on these qualities since they are poor justice of such matters. But money is king and if I might turn my literary bent to account and surround myself with the evidence of prosperity I may yet hope to fully redeem myself in their eyes and I know that I will have attained my ambition in that line. I don't even know what to say. There was no blood there was no guts but for me it was incredibly depressing. depressing. The past said it better except when it totally doesn't and it's just depressing. I'm glad that I am the captain of an adventurous vessel and I go where I please most of the time. Thanks for joining me today. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.