Manufacturing of Biochar
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PvZLF9Lph4Y
Education
 Mike McGold from Coltec Energy. Our company has been involved in developing gasification projects since 2000. In 2003, we installed our first system and since then have gone through almost a continual upgrade of technologies. Probably the most widely known system that we've installed was in 2007 at Frye Poultry. If anyone has seen Dr. Layman's video of the promise of biochar or read his book, that unit is shown in both of those articles. What you see on the screen is the latest of our systems. This is kind of a generation four. The first three units or the first three systems were wood-based biochars. They were developed, gasifiers, they were developed to process wood and we modified them to handle manures or more difficult fuels. After coming to the conclusion that biochar was an important piece of the economics of any project going forward, we set out and designed a system that was specifically designed to handle manures and some of the more difficult fuels and also produce a consistent quality biochar. This unit pictured was installed in late 2012 in Ohio. It's on a farm that houses approximately 4,500 cows and this unit can process approximately 50 tons a day of cow manure. At that facility, they are bringing manure and a combination of manure and bedding into a dedicated manure barn between 35,000 and 50,000 tons a year. We are taking that material and drying it in a rotary dryer to produce both animal bedding and produce fuel for the gas fire. Then we are putting cow manure dry to 20 to 25 percent moisture into the system, producing the energy to operate the dryer and producing a consistent quality biochar. Gasification is a thermal process. It's reacting carbon-based fuels in an oxygen-starved environment. Typically, the syngas produced in the gasifier is then combusted in a thermal oxidizer. There are systems out there that are taking syngas and firing it directly in a reciprocating engine, but they're operating with processed wood. They're operating with a more consistent fuel. Manure is not a consistent fuel. The composition varies and so the syngas varies, so it becomes very problematic to try to utilize the syngas directly. We just add enough air and combusted in a thermal oxidizer and then utilize the heat. The product of gasification is heat and biochar, unlike paralysis. Paralysis, they also produce an oil and then we do not. We just produce a hot air product and a solid. A solid product in the form of biochar. Our unit is a fixed bed gasifier. We do not have a fluidized bed. The material sits flat on the floor of the unit. We introduce a controlled amount of air in a controlled zone inside the gasifier to provide the oxygen-starved environment. Typically, we are producing mostly carbon monoxide inside the gas fire. When we add air in a thermal oxidizer, then we are converting carbon monoxide to carbon dioxide. And inside the gas fire in a solid water. And inside the gas fire, our temperatures in the air inside the gas fire typically range between 1,000 and 1,500 degrees Fahrenheit. The feed rates and the biochar removal rates inside the gas fire are controlled through variable frequency drives. So that allows us to control not only the input and so control the throughput of the material, but because the feed rate of the raw material is independent from the feed of the biochar coming out of the machine. So it gives us the ability to control the retention time of the biochar so we can impact the biochar quality as well as control the throughput and the energy output. We also have the air fans are on variable frequency drives so they also can be modulated to vary the throughput and energy output. And one of the keys to being able to control the amount of air in addition to starting it for oxygen, the minimal amount of air inside the gas fire also allows us to control particulate carryover so it gives us a cleaner emission stream. So, what are the benefits of the biochar? Biochar is the carbon rich product obtained when biomass is heated in a closed container. Either oxygen starved or oxygen free, either gasification or oil paralysis. So, gasification produces a mineral, a material that contains mineral ash from the feed stock as well as the fixed carbon, which will be in the form of a carbon char. And this carbon is transformed into a very absorbent material that has charged particles which attracts nutrients and moisture. And the ability of this carbon changes dramatically with the different minerals that are part of the biochar itself. So, biomass materials contain carbon in two forms. It's either in the form of fixed carbon or volatile matter. And what we do is we react to carbon in the volatile matter, which creates energy, and then try to leave much of the fixed carbon behind in the biochar. Typically, volatiles start reacting at around 400 degrees and fixed carbon is usually closer to 1400. So, it's a very temperature driven process. Due to the high temperatures and retention time, biochar for manures are free from pathogens, E. coli, growth hormones, and residues for medications. So, it provides an outlet for a processed product coming out of manures that otherwise farmers don't have the outlet for. Typically, wood has between 2 to 5% mineral ash and 20 to 25% fixed carbon. So, when you're producing biochar from wood, you're going to have a very high carbon content. If you retain all the fixed carbon, you're going to be as high as 80 to 90% carbon in the biochar. But wood has relatively few nutrients. So, you have little nutrients in the biochar. It is predominantly just carbon. On the other hand, when we gasify manures, typically the manures will be anywhere between 15 to 30% mineral ash and between 6 to 18% fixed carbon. So, our biochar will be about a 20 to 25% carbon product. But the rest of that, the mineral ash that's contained in that biochar contains an array of beneficial nutrients. It's nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium, calcium, magnesium, and a lot of trace minerals that are beneficial both in soils and in feed. The composition of the manure biochar varies with the animal type and diet. And the levels of the various nutrients change, but their benefits do not. For example, poultry biochar will have a high percentage of calcium, nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium. Egg layer biochar will be extremely high in calcium due to the amount of calcium they feed the birds to produce strong eggshells. Cal manure biochar will have a higher level of magnesium. And we're doing a lot of work with solid separation systems with both swine and cow manure to try to retain more of those nutrients in the solid fraction. So, we're even increasing the level of those nutrients when we're producing biochar from those products. products but these nutrients all provide different benefits whether it's in the soil whether it's heavy metal capture the different nutrients all have different reactions so there's they provide different benefits so they provide different applications for biochar and for biochar made from specific feedstocks based on those nutrients it was one of the slides that Kurt had earlier there was mentioned designer biochars if you are producing biochars from different manures or even manures and wood or agricultural debris you will have different qualities of biochar just because of the feedstocks and it allows you to be able to to blend those biochars and create the designer biochars for specific needs the vast majority of biochars you read through publications and research are have been produced from wood quite frankly because was a very simple material to gasify or power lives manures can present problems so most technologies are designed for wood biochar made from other fuels such as nor is not only have a value as a biochar but also provide an environmental value as they provide a method of disposing materials that are creating issues last year city of Toledo had green water for four days the Chesapeake Bay has dead zones the Gulf of Mexico has dead zones and agriculture is not the only factor but it's a contributing factor to to the algae blooms and in all those areas and finding a an outlet for those manures other than land application gives us an opportunity to not only produce biochars which are beneficial environmentally but but eliminate some of the disposal issues that are creating environmental problems I'm you know biochar has has applications in a wide array of uses whether it's soil amendments speed supplements water filtration soil remediation other moisture control I mean it's it's amazing the different characteristics it has and the different benefits having in a variety of uses and and then when you on top of that if you produce biochar from different feedstocks and end up with a different array of nutrients and different results then you even increase the range of opportunities and effectiveness in my opinion in order to make a significant impact in the world biochar must be produced in large volumes and and our belief is producing it with feedstocks such as manures is a has a higher likelihood of success because those feedstocks exist in large volumes and typically they're concentrated in in in in specific regions they're in the areas and they're in the areas and they're in the areas and so they they have a very high concentration of manures in those areas and so disposal is a bigger and bigger issue every day but from a project developers point of view biochar provides an even different value and that's economics waste energy projects have been developed for years and most of them are in the field somewhere rusting down they fail miserably or they have subsidies to allow them to survive because they are developed for the energy component alone the key to making these projects successful is multiple revenue streams just a very few and then we've seen a few but a very few can survive on single stream biochar can provide a significant revenue stream not always can it carry a project by itself but as a as one of them one of a multiple revenue streams it can make the economic strong enough to make a project profitable from a technical standpoint we don't believe developing these projects is extremely difficult but raising the funding is and education and education and biochar is extremely critical because having a having the established value for biochar opens up a lot of funding opportunities and getting sales getting sale prices is a key component to making these projects successful typical projects the unit that was pictured in the first slide and that is our standard operating unit operating 24 7 it'll process between 15 and 20 thousand tons of manure a year and input moisture somewhere between 20 and 30 percent poultry broiler manure broiler litter turkey litter coming out of the barns they are in that moisture range so they can be directly input into the gas fire cow manure and swine manure required some drying either as we're doing in Ohio just through a rotary dryer or the very high moisture contents require some solid separation prior to drying so we're putting the fire systems handling wet cow manure we can process 60 to 70 thousand tons per year with a single gas fire so that gives you an idea of the size of those systems and just rough numbers that equates to about a 5,000 cattle dairy biochar production biochar production these systems will be between 3 and 5,000 tons a year and that depends on the composition of the manure how much ash is in it and how fresh it is and there's several variables but it will be in that range and the use for the energy can vary anywhere from using heat to dry to heating buildings to producing steam producing power absorption chillers we are producing hot air and virtually every energy application that's used starts off with the form of hot air so I mean there are readily available equipment that can be bolted on the back end for the energy application in our experience almost every project is unique each customer has unique needs and conditions and but this system is very flexible and when we develop projects they are tailored to the individual needs of the customer whether that's on the front end on their needs of getting rid of material or processing material or on the back end for what they can use the energy for or the biochar or additional bioproducts such as animal bedding being able to produce a solid product like a biochar versus having a raw manure to handle or even a digestate has huge environmental and economic benefits i see some regarding the current this system that you know Haa not trying to match is a lot more efficient this system is not the best But if you can avoid the efficient light in add you can also NOT make a lot of processing that you can analyze it, and it's really easy to match a lot but free rate this system is giving you the expectant