Farmland preservation program loses funding
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pwhlLOxUpQM
News & Politics
 In Cumberland County, commissioners officially put next year's budget on the table, setting it up for a vote next week. It calls for a 12 percent property tax hike. But some fear that one of the proposed spending cuts could end up costing taxpayers in the long run. Here's News 8's Cumberland County reporter, Matt Barcaro. Not much has changed on this upper Frankfort Township farm since the Barrick family moved onto it nearly five decades ago. And for Harry Barrick, that's exactly why he bought it in the first place. I wouldn't want to do anything else. So future generations of his family can preserve what's here. You can make some fast money, you know, by buying ground and developing it, you know, but then there goes that ground. It's never used for farming again. You know, it's, we lost it. It's a real worry because he can see it. It's closing in, closing in big time. On both sides of his property, developers built neighborhoods and have made offers for his land. So he reached out to Cumberland County to enter its farmland preservation program. In it, the county would pay him for the development rights to his land, guaranteeing it would stay farmland forever. By no means are the barracks the only family wanting in on this program. In fact, they come in at number 37 of 54 families waiting on the county's preservation list. Approval of some cut, perhaps. Some preservationists, though, worry those farm families may be waiting for nothing. For the first time in years, Cumberland County commissioners decided not to put aside money into its farmland preservation fund for next year's budget. Faced with a multi-million dollar deficit, they say the county contribution is not possible. That is not to say that the whole program, in my opinion and for my vote, would not be supported at another time. State money is still expected to partially fund the program, but farmers like Harry Barrick fear if the county contribution is eliminated, it may never come back. And it may be that much harder to keep his land the way it was when he bought it. In Cumberland County, Matt Barcaro, News 8. Supporters of the farmland preservation program argues that it saves tax dollars. They say that on a farm, taxpayer funded services like road work aren't needed. And so that money is not spent.