A Different Farm Equipment Dealership
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pxN4v-ittYM
People & Blogs
 My name is Billy Eklund from Eklund Farm Machinery in Stanford, New York. What are some of the things that make you different from everybody else? Oh boy, there's a lot of things that make me different. So I was born right here in Stanford, New York, and we've had a dairy farm and I grew up living and working and playing on the dairy farm. So we're sitting here at the dealership, just over the hill, we have an organic dairy farm that milks about 550 cows and we also have about 300 Angus beef. In the 1950s, my grandfather started a New Holland dealership. At the end of 2001 is when I took over when they retired, moved to where we are at now in 2007, built this new place and took on Massey Ferguson. Our customers range from guys buying GC tractors all the way up through to the guys with the eight S's and everybody in between. By us having a farm, I totally understand how it is super important for when that farmer is making hay, spreading manure, doing silage that he needs his equipment right now. No questions asked. Like, it has to happen. I've been taught that from my dad over the years. It just all has to come together or that farmer or customer cannot get his stuff done. Whatever you need. I'm Frank Albano. I'm from Stanford, New York. My family and I milk about 350 cows and do a little bit of custom cropping. We work with Eklund Family Farm Machinery. If we buy the best piece of equipment from a not so good dealer, it doesn't matter. I mean, there's no sense in buying it. There's a personal connection when a family farm works with a family business owner such as Billy. We know where he's coming from. He knows where we're coming from. I'll take a tractor off our farm and bring it to them just so they can get stuff done. Well, we would lose the whole day if you didn't help us out. I mean, you know, you got six, seven people trying to work and sometimes one piece of equipment could shut the whole day down. When there's a farmer or a customer broken, we pretty much drop what we have to do and take care of it. And that's where Billy really shines. I don't know how many times this summer we say, call Billy. Call Billy. Call Billy. And we're rolling. It doesn't matter. We just, we got to go. Who's going to help you when you're down? Eklund's has done that my whole life. From the first day with his grandfather to Billy, who's taking over. He'll say, I'll send somebody over with a piece of equipment and we'll bail that hay up. We'll do that. That's what makes my life better and makes me more successful. I got this little switch in my head that says I have to do it better all the time. I think that comes from my dad and mom, me growing up on the farm. And I bring that up here to the dealership. It's customer service. We go over and above and beyond because we like our customers and Billy is the, he is the person. We are who we are because of Billy. We kind of joke about it. Every time we call Billy, he just, whatever. He don't care what we got to do. As long as we're running, we're happy. Every time he picks up the phone, whatever, man, whatever you got to do to get going, it really means a lot. And it shows that, you know, they're a family operation and they're willing to give back to the city. So every June we do a Massey Ferguson Hay Day event. It's across the street in our hayfield. We set up all the tractors, all the mowers, balers, everything's ready to go. DJ, a band, fireworks. Do you do any spinning at all? Do you still DJ? I do not DJ anymore. So we do two big sponsorships throughout the year. The first one is the Poconos for the NASCAR. We have tractors running on the tracks. We have displays out in the yard. And we are the sponsor for the US Luge, which is where you lay on your back and go 90 miles an hour down a track. I'm at the events with the display and, you know, we're trying to send the customers to their local dealers to buy equipment. Just want to have Massey Ferguson on the map. It's cool to see because, you know, he's a family business and he's willing to put back into the community. We sell other stuff besides Massey, excavators and skid steers, truck parts with towns, municipalities, construction guys. But when they're ready to buy a tractor, we've already got the relationship going. We know who they are. And we sell them to Massey Ferguson. We have the best customers and we have the best group here, best staff. And sometimes it just can't get any better. Pretty much at the end of the day, be good to your customers and they're going to be good to you. Was that good? Yeah, it was really good. You said it's in the editing, so I'm excited for that. What? What are you doing? Battle of the Garyale will meet. All the time, we're going to get back. I've been watching some early on our YouTube channel with myahahaha. All the time. All right.ерб? All right. Hope you guys enjoy it. Have fun. Ageing Watch. See your future. Wow. Better camping. Be great. All right. Come back here. All right. You guys did. Oh. You guys did. Now only one day. You guys did. groups and weof. Goat. Five. So I hope they lived on.