Small Scale Farming Techniques For Trellising Cucumbers And Germinating Carrots
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Pycl11fjwuM
People & Blogs
 Okay, this is a really busy week, so tons of cultivating, planting, bed flipping, getting things trellised, people managing, customer stuff, all that stuff in between. Harvest, helping friends out with other things, so just a bunch of stuff in this video. But we did trellis up here, about 600 plants, I think, cucumbers, tomatoes, and so I go over that in the video. And also some carrot germination techniques. Yeah, I'm sure there's some other stuff, don't really remember. But today was market day. We had a really good day. It was cool. Beginning of May, so they were a lot more busy. So, yeah, it was just neat. Yeah, next week, a lot of the same thing, but the trellising stuff will turn to pruning. So it will be about how to prune the tomatoes, how to prune the cucumbers, more planting, more maintenance, everything. So, yeah. So, yeah. So, yeah. So, yeah. Starting seeds today? Yep. More of everything. More foliar first. More of everything really. A ton more planting, trellising the tomatoes and cucumbers. We have like 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 600 plants to trellis up. So yeah it's going to be another really busy week. But this time of year it really matters that we focus and get stuff done. Because a lot of the rest of the season, really the whole year is predicated on what you do now and what you plan for. And yeah it's the work you do. It's kind of a cool thing about the farming stuff is you directly get out of it what you put in. Granted you could have a storm and stuff but the reality is most of the time you can figure it out. So we're putting this shade cloth back over the spinach because we're going to have highs in the 80s and then upper 80s. So to reduce the stress and keep these guys growing because it's a cold season crop we're just going to take the stress of the sun off of them. Okay guys trellising these up. It's really simple. These are called tomahooks. These are tomato clips. That strings down. Clips onto the bottom. And then I'm weaving these. So I'm weaving these up the plant because we get wind in these tunnels and like this is a greenhouse variety. So really in a real greenhouse you can not have as much wind. That's not the case for us. So really you would just clip the plant up the stem and it would never really be tested by the wind but for us it's not a reality. So yeah it's simple. I'll show you. Clip this over the string. Be careful not to break anything. It's the same method for the tomatoes. And there's a whole pruning technique too that I'll go through when that time gets here. Even now like we can take the lower fruits off but some of these beds we're going to leave to get fruits early for the market. Some of the beds were not so we can have a better harvest later. And the way that works is the plant is able to focus its energy in the root system instead of the fruit. There's other trellising systems out there. This one was just affordable to us when we started. And they haven't broke yet so we're still using them. And we're just growing in the caterpillar tunnels like I don't see a reason to spend a much of money when you're growing in these structures versus an actual high tunnel. They get the job done. They might take a little more time but it still works. They're doing another bed. So as Spring is finally here and Summer is almost getting here I thought I'd share a good So as spring is finally here and summer is almost getting here, I thought I'd share a good tip thing or whatever. Two shirts in the spring versus one. A hotter day is going to be 81 a day. Will help your body adjust to the summer heat better because you're intentionally making it, you're intentionally making yourself warmer now and it makes you sweat more and it makes you burn off your winter fat faster. Got a lot to harvest today still. I know and I spent all day harvesting yesterday. Yep. So today we're getting the greens. Yesterday we got a lot of the roots, literally all we did. Uh, yeah, this is the time now where the workload starts getting big. So we got like six totes of carrots, two totes of beets, a bunch of radishes, a bunch of turnips. Uh, probably like 70 or 80 pounds of salad. As much arugula as we can get. Kale mix. I'm not missing. I'm not missing. I'm missing. I'm missing. I'm missing. Well, you've good coasters. You're? You're a bad boy. assurance. In 15 minutes for kitchen high? A lot of kids can eat well feds on good hands so much. After that theела, we can be the logarithmic and one on top of the table. I went quickly and let them play in the 72- Artemis out bar. A long row of players any of them got 25- разных videos. After product withぁ and a lot of people on modernしました, we need to create 1-2% test. So we're gonna have to takesmart изв ele. Taking all afternoon. Oh, yeah. I didn't try to get some, of course I asked for that. My style is your little more открыť. Yes, you're sick of odd Hertz rod. Let me show them all this video. I'm missing an accent. Nothing like a wind advisory that wasn't in any part of the forecast. So it's like 20 mile an hour winds gusts up to 50. So like come around and tighten up these tunnels and Adrie has to re-hand water the carrot beds. But it's really important because the wind will get underneath the silage tarps that hold the moisture normally and dry the top of the bed out. So we got the hose out here and Adrie's coming through re-watering these. They're just starting to germinate. So right now when they're getting ready to germinate, that moisture is super critical. Especially when it's like 84 right now. They'll dry out super quick. So probably have to do it later again tonight. So it sits wet overnight and then we get the germination we're trying to get. Windy days like this are a good day to cultivate though. So cultivating the onions. The wind will dry the plants out quick and kill them that way. Adrie! What? There's the weeds. What's up George? Cultivating the onions. Getting dirt in my eyes from all this wind. Hey, first cucumber harvest. Gotta do some foil moan and cook some eggs. 4 паль slices. Gotta do it. Put it in air.慢慢착. Then have a新しい oil brand style. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah, they're doing really good. Another reason we rotary plow the beds and stuff before we build them is because we know we're going to be growing root crops and root crops need that loose soil and they need actual soil. They're not going to grow that good in just compost. Greens will. Salad greens, head lettuce, arugula, all that stuff. You can just put a bunch of feather meal down on compost and grow your greens in it just fine. But root crops need a little more and they need actual soil. Here's another spot with beets germinating here. And then where it wasn't covered, it's not germinating. And you don't have to have the tarps. You can use cardboard, you can use row cover, you can use a different kind of tarp. Obviously the tarp will work best because it's plastic and it will hold more moisture. And the white side reflects the sun and keeps the soil temperature cool as opposed to putting the black side up which would heat up the soil. So in the winter we'll germinate crops with the black side up because it will warm up the soil. But the rest of the year we use the white side. Update on the onions, they're good. You remember the hedgerow we planted last spring? Trying to get it laid out here. This is it now. So we've got comfrey, elderberry, comfrey, figs that are starting to come back. Oh that persimmon got roasted, that's okay, we're going to replace it with something different. And then these are service berries, this is my favorite tree. Really good berries, it's a tree that nobody knows about. There's a fig coming back there. This hedgerow is for pollinators, beneficials, birds. So the birds will be after the service berry berries for sure. We're going to put some bird houses in here. And bumblebees and hummingbirds love the comfrey. There's the comfrey flowers. Pretty excited how good that looks this year. Remember how you use that thing? No. So, remember the gears in here? What's going on here, Jord? Putting together all the pre-orders. I've always got so much stuff to do. I don't know. Why don't we do this to ourselves? I don't know. This looks confusing. Actually, it's really organized. Oh, it's organized? Yeah. Because I didn't do it? Yeah. Yeah. Haha. Good I didn't do it? Yeah. Haha. So spre kaasMan is someone already. We're going to put this to my mouth, we will use gas Commonwealth Thank you. Thank you.