Harvesters Farming Steep Land in Washington USA
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q-0aO51Y-3A
Entertainment
 If you worked a little harder, then you'd have a lot more So the blame and the shame's on you, for being so damn poor It ain't the price gouging, and it ain't the inflation It ain't everyone above you trying to make a buck from you In school and the whole congregation, I had that reduced lunch I had the benefit cards, never occurred to me to blame my family For life being so damn hard, I should've paid attention Back when I was in school, that I could figure out the tax I would know a lot of facts, I missed the class where they taught the rules I was memorizing capitals, I was in this L&B I must've skipped the part where they taught the art of private equity I was selling chocolate bars, I had a disorder I was cutting up a frog, got lost in the fog Learning how to play a recorder, if you only worked a little harder If you worked a little harder, then you'd have a lot more To the shame and the blame's on you, for being so damn poor It ain't the banks, and it ain't the taxes It ain't the payday loans, and high rent homes, and predatory fees and practices Wave your dumb flag, whatever it means That you should ask yourself, when it comes to health Of the poor, really all left free If you worked a little harder If you worked a little harder If you worked a little harder You'd have a lot more To the blame and the shame's on you For being so damn poor, yeah To the blame and the shame's on you Go ahead, Joey Go ahead, Joey Go ahead, Joey Go ahead, Joey Go ahead, Joey Go ahead, Joey Go ahead, Joey Go ahead, Joey Go ahead, Joey Go ahead, Joey Go ahead, Joey Go ahead, Joey Go ahead, Joey Go ahead, Joey progress Go ahead, Joey Go ahead hopefully Go ahead Go ahead, Joey Go ahead, Joey So are going Go ahead, Joey Go ahead, Joey Go Go ahead But in high speed, I can set my car on a dash. Put I'm free on cause of my case with extra speed. hung the lathe. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.