Resources help to grow farming business
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q0A89wqTVOI
Nonprofits & Activism
 Music Morrison Farming was formed in 2008. Prior to that I was farming in partnership with my brother Richard and my father John and we were on half of the original family farms since 1864 and over the other side of the road was distant cousin Graham working away, battling away by himself on the other half of the original business. So we'd always sort of thought well it would be nice to get the original land back together as one piece. Conflict can be an interesting part of family farms. I guess we have our moments at Morrison Farming like a lot of families. One of the great things that alleviates a lot of the tension or some of the conflict anyway is the fact that we now have a bigger area from 450 acres we're now up to 3,500 acres. So we're not living and working in each other's pockets. We also have different skill sets and interests within the farming business. So each of the directors looks after different portfolios and oversees those parts. Sure they have to turn up to the Morrison Farming meetings and justify their performance and that they've reached their KPIs. But we all have the freedom to work with ourselves or with others and work on the portfolios that we're in charge of. Home others in tava cooking time. Well beyond, I'm having the depende of the From purposing to find our size. While STA will appreciate that theokayalo to work with them, To make sure that Atiана spillLES and do not Chair Mmmmmm to do, and tell us just a dance floor at theображ at the workshop. So we came back from the on bunker up. We wanted to know all the parts of everything gathered here, as well, that's your commitment. We wanted to get for profit with many different parts of the party, to be able to achieve that depth part of COLckingンポ KLO. But we can be spending it up to the Political Talk from Bartolo and다가 We wanted to know more and pass alto along the way. If we understand the future this space is also being helpful wherever you is in charge of one bite.