Farmstead Cheeses of Wisconsin USA - Cheese Slices with Will Studd
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q1Qwzw1DsxQ
Travel & Events
 Nowhere in the United States produces more cheese than here in Wisconsin. In fact, cheese is so important here that the local license plates declare America's dairy land and the locals wear silly cheese hats to football games. I've come here to look at artisan farmhouse cheeses made using raw milk. Wisconsin lies in the Great Lakes region of the Midwest and its beautiful countryside is a mix of rolling hills, meandering rivers, sparkling lakes and endless green pastures. It's famous as the home of America's beer which is produced in the sprawling lakeside city of Milwaukee and the symbolic Harley Davidson motorcycle. But above all, Wisconsin is famous for its cheese. Limestone filtered waters and predictable climate make this state ideal country for dairy farming and it produces almost 25% of all the cheese eaten in the United States. Wisconsin used to be the number one producer of wheat in the United States in the 1840s and 50s. The chinch bug came along and ruined the industry which created a lot of cheap land. Then the Yankees came in and they started making cheddar cheese. Then the Swiss came in and then later on the Germans moved in. So we're really a true melting pot in Wisconsin and a lot of those settlers came in with cheese making skills and dairying skills. By 1925 Wisconsin had almost 3,000 cheese factories in operation and it was the first state to require the grading of its cheeses and licensing of its cheesemakers. In 1950 we had 150,000 dairy farms in the state of Wisconsin. We have 14,000 today. So there's been a great consolidation in our industry. These days, handmade artisan and farmstead cheesemaking is enjoying a huge renaissance in Wisconsin. And one man determined to ensure traditional Swiss cheese remains important is Bruce Workman, cheesemaker at the aptly named Idleweiss Creamery. You always go in the top here? Yeah, I will on this one. Sometimes I go on the side. Yeah. Whoa. So this is three years old. This is three years old. Look at that. Whoa. Look at that. It's got angel's tears in it. Yeah, angel's tears and the free calcium in there. Yeah. You see the white spots. That looks fantastic. So do you sell many three-year-old cheeses? We sell a few. It's not really a hot item for the fact that the American palate doesn't like really, really old cheese. That is seriously beautiful. That's beautiful cheese. Thank you. As we sampled our way around the 3,000 cheeses, quite immaturely, maturing in his ripening rooms, Bruce explained that he started cheesemaking straight out of high school. I just kind of continued. I needed a job. I was going to be a culinary chef. My mom was a home ec teacher and I guess I am a cook. I just got big pots. Yeah, I guess so. That's right. So what do these weigh? About 180 pounds. Largest cheese in America? I hope so. Green County locals are so proud of their cheese heritage, they've converted the Old Rail Depot into a wonderful cheese museum complete with veteran commentators. You take this, you put it in here, and you take this bagel, they call it, and slip it around that cheese. It weighs maybe 300 pounds of whey and curd. So it's an art. What happens if you fall in the bag? OK, now this cheesemaker down here has the hired man hold his feet. I've heard where the hired man left the cheesemaker go in. He had to get the sheriff to come and get his clothes. The white oak factory. John Bustman's cheesemaking roots go back three generations, and there's not much about local cheese that he doesn't know. Before leaving the museum, there was one final treat from these Swiss cheese enthusiasts. One of the most awarded of all the new artisanal cheeses in Wisconsin is Pleasant Ridge Reserve, and it comes from Uplands Dairy in the south-west of the state. This is very gorgeous. How sweet. Amberscotch. Amberscotch? This is genuine farmstead cheese, and it really reflects where it comes from. All the cheesemaking is controlled by Mike Gingrich and his wife Carol, whilst business partners Dan and Jean Padneau are responsible for the welfare of the cows and the milk quality. So you copied this from a Beaufort recipe? Mm-hm. We decided we wanted to make a cheese like Beaufort, so we asked the university if there was anybody there that knew how to make a Beaufort and could they help us. So that's how we got started. We took our milk into the university and made eight little test vats and tried them out, aged them in our basement, and decided what we liked, and that's how we got started. Have you always been partners in the farm? In this farm? Yeah. We each had our own farms before this one, and then when we bought this we pooled our resources. We've had very good fortune, really, in that each of us is able to do the things that we prefer and avoid the things that we don't prefer, and this is kind of a complex operation. There's lots of work. Pleasant Ridge Reserve is a classic semi-hard cooked cheese and it's a really delicious nibble. It's no wonder that it's won a swag of medals. After pressing, the new cheeses are dry-salted for two days and then rubbed every day after that in a secret brine solution until a thick rind begins to form. Bee linens are a bacteria that grow on the surface and they'll basically work their way through the whole cheese, breaking down fats and proteins and releasing flavour compounds, and it just gets you wonderful flavours in the cheese that you don't otherwise get. These cheeses have been ripening in this room for the past year and they've developed an extraordinarily sweet flavour. That's largely due to very clever pasture management on this farm. Uplands Dairy only make Pleasant Ridge Reserve from late spring until the fall, when the pastures surrounding the farm are green and still growing, and the cows are moved to graze a different part every day. The flavours are somewhat muted, I think, when you pasteurise it or even if you heat treat it. Yeah. And when it's purely raw, you know, you're just getting it just the way the cows want you to taste it. It's just great. Well, it certainly tastes good. Thanks very much. You bet. Thank you. Nice to see you. Nice to see you, future. Thank you. Beautiful. Almost all the cheeses made at Uplands Dairy are matured in the farm's maturation rooms, but Mike has made one exception. He's teamed up with another cheesemaker named Willie Lenner, who's purpose-built a clay and straw-lined cheese cave, and a very impressive underground maturation cabin with a domed ceiling on his property in the rolling hills of Blue Mounds, 25 miles west of the state capital, Madison. And that's one of the reasons I went underground, you know, with curing my cheese, because I don't have to heat or cool it. My goal is to bring my energy consumption, my carbon footprint, to zero. And even though making cheese is a very energy-intensive proposition, I feel that I'm paying back some of my carbon dues by producing all my own power. I actually produce more power than I use, and I feed that back to the utility. Now, what about these here? These look a little bit familiar to me. I think I might have seen them somewhere in the fall. I made this whole string of cheeses using the milk from Uplands. These are all raw milk cheeses. And then I cure the cheeses here in this cave. Willie also makes a cloth-bound cheddar, which is considered a Wisconsin benchmark. And there's no doubt in my mind that his caves are a crucial part of his success. Tell me a little bit about this room, because this room's pretty important. You know, you've got these fantastic walls in here, and lovely. It sort of feels very, very sort of almost church-like. Yeah, it was an enormous amount of work, way more than I ever thought possible. But it's deep enough in the ground so that the temperature is quite stable. It does fluctuate, but when it does fluctuate, it's by a tenth of a degree over many days. And it'll stay within a range of maybe six degrees from winter through summer. The growing consumer interest in artisanal cheeses produced in the United States has been encouraged by farms markets and specialist cheese shops. So I arranged to drop in on the aptly named From Magination, which sits in the center of Madison. The shop is all about really showcasing what's going on in Wisconsin. As I was meeting with cheesemakers, I found that there was a lot of craftsmanship in what they're doing. And I really wanted to create an environment that really showcased the beauty of their craftsmanship. We have some of the best cheeses in our state right now from Pleasant Ridge Reserve to an up-and-coming new cheesemaker, Brenda Jensen, Hidden Springs, Dio Cooch Mountain. So 365 days a year, a customer can come in and buy not only the cheddars that are sold at the market, but also because we work with some up-and-coming new cheesemakers, we're kind of the testing ground of what's going on in the state. So it really is a great working relationship. We're learning from them, they're learning from us about our customers' taste, and it just makes a great marriage. From Magination carries an extraordinary range of cheese, and Ken's passionate enthusiasm for local cheese proved very helpful in my search for where to go next. I'm travelling across Lake Michigan, the only one of the great lakes not to share a border with Canada. The reason I'm here is to visit a small dairy called Saxon Creamery, which is near the little town of Pleasant. All milk used in this range of cheeses comes from the Saxon Homestead Farm, originally established in the 1840s by the Klesig family who migrated here from Germany. Today the farm is still run by their descendants and uses a system of rotational grazing that ensures that very contented cows always have a choice of grass and legumes to chew on. Well, we feel that it's pretty fortunate that we're here because the influence of Lake Michigan. Ah, okay, yeah. It gives us a maritime type of climate in the evenings when it's hot in the summer. You need to bring the body temperature of these cows down, and the night does that for us. The influence of that big air conditioner, Lake Michigan. The Klesig family have been making cheese since the 1870s, but in 2005 the third generation began work on a new cheese dream. To ensure its success, they invited a group of professionals to join the team. And one of the key members is a well-respected New Zealand cheesemaker named Neville. Come in, Will. Feel the air on your face as you walk in the door. Yeah. Yeah. It's nice positive pressure. What's this? We've got to clean our boots. So we find that this is the best way to keep our feet clean. There's no mat to clean up every night. So... Look at that. There we go. Go for it. That's it. No shave required. No. The goal is really to have a plant big enough to handle twice the milk on the farm, which is 450 cows, 30,000 pounds of milk a day. And so we could actually bring in another tank or load of milk and process that. And that would offset a lot of the cost for the farmers. I have this vision that these vats will all be up on the mezzanine floor. That's why the ceiling is 19 feet tall. Ah, okay. All right. So we put five vats up there and then we put a press vat down below. Yeah. Gravity drops it down to the press vat. So we have one person working up there and seven or eight down here. These curds have been stirred for the past 25 minutes. And the next step is to drain them and add warm water. The warm water changes the pH. And that's one reason why this cheese is so sweet and buttery. The curds are washed inside the vac and then pumped into the hoops. They are then allowed to sit overnight, turned out and placed in a brine bar. This helps toughen the rine ready for maturation. So the future is looking really good. You might be in a boundary. Well there are ups and downs but it looks excellent. Excellent for the future. That's great. I'm on my way to visit a small dairy called Hidden Springs. They make a sheep's milk cheese and apparently use milk from a local Amish community. Now the Amish don't like to be photographed. Now the Amish don't like to be photographed. So we'll just have to see how we'll look. Hidden Springs has shown here. So we'll just see how we go. Hidden Springs is a big thing. The Amish don't like to be photographed. The Amish don't like to be photographed. So we'll just have to see how we go. Hidden Springs has a big piece of food today. And you can see that they can get a big piece of food. The Amish can be a big piece of food. The Amish don't like to be photographed. I'm on my way to visit a small dairy called Hidden Springs. They make a sheep's milk cheese and apparently use milk from a local Amish community. Now the Amish don't like to be photographed so we'll just have to see how we go. Hidden Springs seems a very appropriate name for this small environmentally sustainable farm hidden away in the rolling green hills of western Wisconsin. But I knew I was getting close when I passed by several Amish ravens. Hidden Springs Creamery. It runs its own milking flock of 120 dairy ewes and also collects fresh milk from the Amish farm next door using a horse and cart. This has got to be the first time I've ever gone to collect milk in a horse and cart. Do you do this every day? Not every day. Sometimes we do take a vehicle over but we really enjoy taking the horses over. Brenda and Dean Jensen established the Creamery after leaving their jobs in corporate America. Dean still runs his medical practice from an office next to the house and keeps an eye on the farm whilst Brenda is in charge of all the cheese making. The Amish community really was the draw for us here because Dean has a passion for driving horses. We don't own a tractor. We don't do any of that farm work with tractors. We do it all with the horses. And we decided to get into the dairy sheep. We really liked the nutritional value of the milk and it made wonderful cheese. So how many sheep in all would you be milking between the two of you? Between the two of us approximately 200 sheep all together at varying times in lactation. So John does all hand milking. Yeah. We're not allowed to film the Amish are we? Right. It's their religious belief, their lifestyle that they do not take pictures or allow pictures. Not close up pictures anyway. And do you get them over for dinner now and again and put your knees up and all that sort of stuff? We do and it's a house full because there's very few Amish families that don't have more than 10 children in a family. So it's... 10 children in a family? The national average is 7, a little over 7 children to a family. But we have families here that have 15, 16 children. Yes, we... this is the seasons coming in now of strawberries and strawberries. I thought you were going to say the season of children. Yeah, that's all seasons. Despite the Amish being very reluctant to appear on camera, John was kind enough to allow the film crew inside the small dairy where the family milk the ewes twice a day on a makeshift platform. Amish children work on the farm from a young age and hard work is an important part of their upbringing. Yeah, get some of that fast. Okay, just like that. Yep. So you just push them around? Yes, so it works really handy. That's great. What a good system. It's a great system. The Amish have certainly proved to be good neighbours for the Jensen's. And apart from providing milk, they've also helped in the construction of the house and farm buildings. Brenda and I headed to the maturation rooms to taste her latest creation. There was a mountain range that ran through this area, the Ocuch Mountains. It was in the 1800s that the mountain range ran through here, but now it's just the rolling hills. And the Indians actually named the area that. Say it again. Ocuch Mountain. Ocuch Mountain. They're washed rind, raw milk. I can feel a little Ocuch moment coming on here. Mmm, mmm. Very good, isn't it? That's really lovely. Thank you. How old is that? This is about two months old. So just ready for sale? I like it older. I don't like to sell it at two months, but I can at 60 days, raw milk. It's fluffy and sweet and it's got fantastic lingering flavour. Brenda is clearly at home with her dairy animals and supervises all the milking. These sheep are really friendly. They're a mixture of Le Corn and East Friesland dairy sheep and produce about two litres of milk every day. And even more unusual is they're protected by a donkey named Cicero. My final lesson at Hidden Springs was to try an old Amish recipe that Brenda makes with her popular fresh creamy cheese she calls driftless. You know, one of the things about America is you do like sweet things. That's for sure. We do. We're an awful sweet people I think. Yeah, that's for sure. That's for sure. So, just like this? Yeah. Well, if you like sweet things, that sure is going to hit all those points. The contrast between that sheep milk cheese and that chocolate is just wonderful. It's lovely in that, yeah. Yeah, that's good. I can see people really liking that. Mm-hmm. So, that's a genuine, farmish recipe. Yes. Thank you very much. First time for everything. Great. After all that driftless cheese, chocolate and sugar, it was definitely time to leave. And I've discovered why this region is called Driftless. Apparently, it's where the glaciers finished in the last ice age. My next destination is Phantom Farm, one of the oldest, smallest, but most well-known goat cheese dairies in the entire state. But in true Wisconsin tradition, it was established by a couple from Iowa. How did you get into making cheese? Got a goat. Well, I know you've been asked that question a few times. No, we got a goat for fun. We were living in Iowa. We went home to work with my dad. And my dad said, why don't you get a goat? Yeah, you can get a goat for money, marbles or chalk. So we thought, well, that sounded like fun. So we started looking for a goat. We got our first goat, Angie, with his help, and she did cost more than money, marbles or chalk. She was a great milker. She made a lot of milk. Oh, yes. Well, that's fun. That's fun. I wish. That's fun. I wish I could make it, but I would make it more. I wish I could make it more. I would make it more. I wish I could make it more. She was our foundation animal. Her paper name was Angelica, but she was far from that. She was a beast. Anne and Judy bought this picturesque 50-acre farm at Ridgeway, some 40 miles west of Madison, in the late 1980s, and built a small barn to house a dozen goats. The first cheeses that Annie made were like hockey pucks. I mean, this one... You could be in that family. The same has the same texture as the first ones she made. It was very hot in Iowa. Yeah, and dry. And doing it in the kitchen. Right. Anne has certainly learned a thing or two from those early years and attributes much of this to feedback from her customers at the Dane Farmers Market in Madison. The handling of the fresh milk and curds requires great care as the fat molecules are very fragile. And Anne has introduced several innovations to minimise handling. We put a positive pump in. Right. So it's as gentle as possible from the minute that anybody starts handling the milk. From the bottom of the bulk tank into the bottom of that, into the bottom of here, so it just rises very gently. The Phantom Farm cheeses are delicate and creamy. And after seeing the dairy in operation firsthand, I can understand why they've developed such a legendary reputation. Well, when I've made the fresh cheese raw milk for us, it's a different, you know, it is definitely more variety within the taste. Yeah. Just for that, we're subtle. Thank you for... You're welcome. ...giving me an opportunity to taste Wisconsin goat cheese. Because I'll tell you what, if it's all like this, it's fantastic. The final stop on my Wisconsin journey was a visit to the famous Larry's Market store just outside Milwaukee. Since the 1970s, owner Larry Ella and son Steve have stocked a growing range of international and local cheeses. We started off with just international cheeses. And I remember when customers would come in here and say, how can you sell those foreign cheeses here in Wisconsin? You're supposed to sell Wisconsin cheeses. I said, there's a lot of guys selling Wisconsin cheeses. We have to make a living too, so we've got to be a little different. As far as American artisan cheeses go, my real awakening came in 2001. That was the first American Cheese Society conference I attended. And that was a real eye-opener for me of what some of these American cheesemakers are doing. And that really set us on the path to starting to work with these cheesemakers, to sell their cheese, and it was very exciting. It was a lot of fun to do. Now, there's one more thing I want to do before I go. So, this is it. Follow me. Right, this way. Larry, I want you to take this little hat here and go and put it on your son's head. There you go. A little generational change. Thank you. Well, whilst here in Wisconsin, I didn't see anyone wearing one of these silly hats, but I did manage to buy one. I also met an amazing group of people and tried some great cheeses. So, I think the future is looking really good. And, obviously, at holiday, there's nothing. I want land. So, just tell me about this one here. Really, I'm Swiss. And if you don't believe it, listen. Now, there's one cheese I noticed a little bit earlier on that I want to ask a question about because I think it's the first time I've ever seen a cheese like this. Look at this. What is this? Tell me more. There you go. There's your Wisconsin fine cheese case. They're definitely very evil. There you go. Have a good friend. That's it.