Real Farm Animal Adventures With Tractor Ted! 🚜 Stories For Kids Who LOVE Farms
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q32V9-z1Jxw
Pets & Animals
 Hi, I'm Tractor Ted and I live on a farm. This is the farmhouse. And here's Farmer Tom. Hello, Farmer Tom. Hello, Tractor Ted. Look, that's Mitch the dog. She's very cheeky. Hello, Tractor Ted. I wonder where they're going. We have a busy day ahead. Let's go. Who's that calling Tractor Ted? Hi, everyone. What are you doing? Wow, what colours are you painting? What fun the children are having painting their eggs. What colour is yours? My eggs green, Tractor Ted, just like you. Wow, they all look Ted-tastic. We're going to collect lots of eggs today. Do you know where they come from? Chickens! Yes. When I come back, I'll tell you all about it. See you later. Bye, Tractor Ted. Tractor Ted, look at that. Whoa! Whoa! He nearly bumped into the chicken. Farmer Tom and Midge have arrived at the farm where the chickens live. We're off to see the chickens. Look, here they are. They have been safe and cosy in the barn for the night. Now it's time for them to come outside into the morning sunshine. They're enjoying a peck around. It's a lovely sunny day. Oh, look. Here's Les. He's come to give Farmer Tom and Midge a lift in the Argo Cat. It's great for bumpy tracks like this one. Hey, hey, wait for me! Look, Tractor Ted's here. I like bumpy tracks too. The children wanted to show me the eggs that they were painting. They came from chickens just like these. They're not all chickens, Ted. Some are cockerels. Are they the ones with sticky-up combs on their heads? Yes, they are. Listen to them. Cock-a-doodle-doo. The cockerels crow and the chickens cluck. And the chickens lay eggs. Look, look, what's that? I know it's not a chicken. Oh, it's just a goat, Midge. He looks really big to me. But he looks like he's smiling. They are very friendly goats. Oh, that's good. Oh, look at his feet. And look at the chickens. Let's see yours, Midge. All their feet are different. The goat has hooves. The chickens have feet with four toes. And Midge has paws. Tractors. Tractors don't have feet. We have wheels. Wow, look at this tractor. It has wheels called caterpillar tracks. Look at its big engine. The farmer is seeing how much oil it has. This is called a dipstick. It shows him that there is enough oil in the engine to run properly. One, two, three, four steps up to the cab. It's a long way up. The farmer turns the key and starts up the engine. The tractor is noisier than the chickens! Caterpillar tracks help the tractor drive over muddy ground. Look, it's spinning like me! Every day the chickens are fed. Farmer Tom needs to fill the food hopper. He's helping to load it onto the forks of the tractor. It isn't very easy. Come forward a bit. Tilt it a bit. Work. That's it. Keep going. Mind out, chicken. That's it. Well done. Keep going. Keep going, man. Now they need to fill it up. This huge tank is full of food for the hungry chickens. It's time to give them tea. Chickens, chickens, it's time to give them tea. Chickens, chickens, lay eggs for you and me. Fill up the hopper. The chickens need a lot. Whoosh goes the grain. Let's fill it to the top. Cluck, cluck, cluck, cluck. We hear the chickens go. Cock, call, do, and do. We hear the cock roll crow. Brum, brum goes the tractor as it drives down to the shed. The chickens are inside all waiting to be fed. Woo! Chickens, chickens, it's time to give them tea. Chickens, chickens, lay eggs for you and me. Chickens, chickens, it's time to give them tea. Chickens, chickens, lay eggs for you and me. The children have come to collect some eggs. Come in and see the chickens. Look, the chickens are enjoying their food. They lay all their eggs inside, which are then collected up. The children need to be careful not to crack any. Once they've given them a clean, they put them into some trays. I wonder what Les is doing with those eggs. Watch out for the stem! Oops! One has broken. Mmm, yum yum! Oh Midge, you are cheeky. Pick-nick time! Les has made a picnic for everyone. What's in the sandwiches? I know, it's egg! My favourite! That's what Les needed the eggs for. Come on Midge, we need to go and tell the other children all about our day. Back at the farm, all the eggs have been painted. Hi everyone, this is my friend Midge. Hello Crocket-Egg! Hello Midge! Midge and I have been to see the chickens who laid all these eggs. There were lots of them! The chickens all went cluck cluck! And the cockles went cock-a-doodle-doo! I liked looking at the tractor with the caterpillar tracks. It spun around like me! Wheeeeeee! Midge, Tractor Ted! Farmer Tom's calling us. We had better go! Bye! Bye bye Tractor! Bye bye Midge! Bye everyone! Tractor Ted and Midge head back to the farmhouse. I wonder if there'll be any more egg sandwiches to eat. Bye Farmer Tom! Bye Midge! Bye Tractor Ted! What a Ted-tastic day we've had! I hope you enjoyed seeing where eggs come from. See you again soon! Bye! Are you ready? Tractor Ted is asleep in his shed And the cockerel says good morning So much to do! Farmer Tom and Midge do down on the farm exploring! Welcome to the farm with Tractor Ted! Let's go see the farm with Tractor Ted! Let's go! Hi! My name is Tractor Ted! And this is the farm where I live. Here is the farmhouse. Here is the farmhouse. Do you know who lives here? Farmer Tom and Midge the dog. Here is Farmer Tom. And here is Midge the dog. She's very cheeky. There is always lots of work to do on the farm. I wonder what they're going to do today. Let's go and see. Farmer Tom has come to see the horses. Here is Henry. Off for a ride on his pony. Hello Henry! I hope you have a nice time. Farmer Tom is giving the horses some yummy orange carrots. Can you hear them crunching them? He walks along and checks that the horses are happy. Oh look! Cheeky Midge has hopped out of the car. She wants to check on the horses too. Morning Midge. We are having some yummy carrots. Oh I like carrots too. Yum yum! Do you know how carrots grow? Let's go and see. Here is a field full of them. They are all ready to harvest. I think. The children have come to get some for their supper. Carrots grow in the ground. And the children have to pull them up. How big is that one? There are some big ones and some little ones too. Hello little guy! Look how many he has got. Oh how many is there? Can you count? One, two, three, four, five. Off we go. They will have them for their supper. This huge field is full of carrots. How are they going to pull them all up? Let's go and see. Here is a tractor with a topper on the front. As it drives along, it chops all the tops off the carrots. Once that job is done, it's time for the harvester. I'm a harvester. I'm a harvester. Come and see me chuck. From dawn to dusk I drive through fields. Digging up the mud, I dig up carrots. Oh I love carrots. I'm a harvester. I'm a harvester. Up and down I trek. Driving in a perfect line to make sure I collect all my carrots. Oh I adore carrots. I'm a harvester. I don't know where all my carrots go. But if you're lucky, you might eat one tonight. I'm a harvester. I'm a harvester. Sorting as I go. I have to separate the dirt from each and every load. I just want carrots. Oh I live for carrots. I'm a harvester. I'm a harvester. I'm a harvester. Oh I don't know where all my carrots go. But if you're lucky, you might eat one tonight. Here is a tractor. It has to drive along quite slowly. When it is full, it drives off with a trailer full of carrots. Now it has to empty them into another trailer. The arm lifts up and reaches over into position. Whee! In go the carrots. What a lot there are. Back at the farm, Les has a busy day ahead. Oh no! The door to his tractor is locked. What will he do? He can't remember where he put the keys. He is looking everywhere for them. Can you see them? Alfie, will you come and help me find me keys? I don't know what I'm doing with them. Alfie has seen them and runs over to help. Oh! Oh thank you. Oh you're a good lad. Oh silly Les. That's good. Now he can get on with his work. Haha, I'm glad that Les has found his keys. Isn't he silly? Can you guess what is in the lorry? I will give you a clue. They grow in the ground and are orange. I will give you a clue. They grow in the ground and are orange. It's all the carrots from the field. It's all the carrots from the field. They go over lots of wheels and they go over lots of wheels and they go over lots of wheels and they are orange. It looks like they are dancing. It looks like they are dancing. Can you guess what is in the lorry? Can you guess what is in the lorry? their little goats but in one of them? I will give you a clue. They grow in the ground and are orange. It's all the carrots from the field. They go over lots of wheels to shake off all the dirt. It looks like they're dancing. First, the carrots are washed. Next, they go into a great big machine which makes them all sparkly and clean. Then they get dropped into big boxes. The forklift arrives to pick them up. It gives the box a good shake so the carrots don't fall out. Don't you think the carrots look yummy? There is just one more job to do. Here are some going into bags. They are sealed up to keep them fresh. Now they are all ready to go to the shop. It's the end of another long day. Farmer Tom has finished his work and is back at the farmhouse. Midge has had a fun day too. I wonder if they will have some yummy carrots for supper. I hope you've enjoyed seeing how carrots are grown and harvested. See you again soon. Bye! Let's go! Are you ready? Tractor Ted is asleep in his shed and the cockerel says good morning. So much to do, farmer Tom and Mitch too down on the farm exploring. Welcome to the farm with Tractor Ted. Let's go see the farm with Tractor Ted. Let's go! Hi, my name's Tractor Ted and this is the farm where I live. Here is the farmhouse. Do you know who lives here? Farmer Tom and Mitch the dog. Here is Farmer Tom. He pulls on his wellies ready for work. And here is Mitch the dog. She's very cheeky. You're supposed to get in the car, Mitch. Oops, sorry. There is always lots of work to do on the farm. Farmer Tom. I wonder what they're going to do today. Let's go and see. Farmer Tom has come to help his friend get some cows in. Look, Les is here too. Before the cows are brought in, they need to make their food. The red loader uses its big spikes to pick up a bale of silage. The netting that holds the bale together is taken off. Whoops, watch out, you dropped some. The bale is lifted high into the air. And dropped into the feed wagon. Now the farmer is putting on a huge scoop. He picks up the last bit of silage. And adds it to the feed wagon. Now the loader collects some yummy corn. And the fish is going to take a bit of silage. He picks up the last bit of silage. And adds it to the feed wagon. Now the loader collects some yummy corn. Now the loader collects some yummy corn. The crisp coconut water. Oh, the shrimp. Julius.din' on air Carter was in Ir creator. What the cows like to eat It's a very simple recipe So sing along with me A great big scoop of silute And a scoop of heavy corn You drop it in the mixer Then you split the mixer on It goes round and around and around It goes round and around and around It goes round and around and around Round and around and around It goes round and around and around It goes round and around and around It goes round and around and around Round and around and around The cows' food is all done Now it's time to get their bed ready Let's go and see The cows are going to be put in this big barn To keep them nice and dry And this straw will make a cosy bed The children have come to help too Playing in the straw is fun Oh and look who else is here It's Cheeky Midge She loves to run and sniff in the straw Everyone is helping spread it out Even Midge is helping Clever dog All done It's time to get the cows in Come on Midge The fields are getting very muddy So it's time for the cows to come in Here they come Here they come I bet they're looking forward to their nice cosy barn The farmers walk the cows out of the field and down the track I think the cows want to talk to the children Hello children How are you? Oh no! One of them won't come in Farmer Tom needs some help Over here Mr. Cow Come on You need to keep up with the others They walk the cows down to the barn Into the barn they go Well done Farmer Tom Well done Les Oh no! Silly Les hasn't shut the gate properly The cows are going to escape Quick Les shut the gate Phew! Well done None of them managed to escape The cows are all nice and cosy in the barn Now it's time to feed them Do you remember what this is? It's the feed wagon Full of yummy food for the cows The farmer takes the feed wagon over to the barn He drives slowly along the row All the mixed up feed shoots out of the bottom For the hungry cows to eat The cows really love their food How many can you see? Shall we count them? One Two Three Four Five Six The cows have all been fed They are all warm and cosy in their barn It's the end of another long day Farmer Tom has finished his work And is back at the farmhouse Midge has had a fun day too Come on Midge I hope you have enjoyed your visit to see the cows And how they're looked after See you again soon Bye Let's go see the farm With Tractor Ted Let's go Are you ready? Tractor Ted is asleep in his shed And the cockerel says good morning So much to do Farmer Tom and Midge do down on the farm exploring Welcome to the farm with Tractor Ted Let's go see the farm with Tractor Ted Let's go Go Hi my name's Tractor Ted And this is the farm where I live Here is the farmhouse Do you know who lives here? Farmer Tom and Midge the dog Here is Farmer Tom He's pulling on his wellies ready for work And here is Midge the dog She's very cheeky Hello Tractor Ted There is always lots of work to do on the farm I wonder what they'll be doing today Let's go and see Farmer Tom has come to see the sheep Oh look, Les is here too Someone else wants to have a look It's Cheeky Midge You look like a funny little sheep And you look like a big woolly dog Catch me if you can I'm quicker than you Oh Mitch, you are cheeky Today the sheep are going to be milked But before that, Farmer Tom needs to clean up Les helps him sweep away the old feed Hello Farmer Tom How are you today? A blue tractor pushes out the bedding It has a scoop on the front And a scraper on the back Can you hear the noise of the tractor? The tractor scrapes away the old feed too It makes a neat pile And scoops it up Then it tips it onto the big muck heap Now it's time for the sheep to be milked Let's go and have a look Here come the sheep Can you hear them pleating? Here from the field Let's get ready to milk them Come on kids, let's count them Come on kids, let's count them One, two, three, four! One, two, three, four! Munching the food will keep them busy While the clusters do the milking There are the otters, there are the teats Milk from the sheep makes food we can eat Milk for our yoghurt, milk for our cheese So let's all say thank you sheep Nears flap, tails wag Look at their coat, so soft, so woolly Tom has seen that some sheep need to have their feet checked The vet is called to help Les is going to help get the sheep into the holder So that the vet can have a good look They are happy with that one Now it's time for the next one Oh no, silly Les He's let the sheep run straight through Let's have another go Oh no, he's let them run through again I think the sheep are playing a game Oh, well done They have managed to get it in She is, isn't she? No, she's not done up yet Oh! The vet takes a good look at the foot And uses a special blue spray to help it get better All done The other sheep are back from milking But before they're let in They need a nice clean bed The farmer drives the tractor along As the straw chopper chops and blows clean straw Into the sheep's barn Please hurry up We're getting a little wet out here What a nice clean bed Lucky sheep Oh, I'd better get out of their way Wow, what a lovely clean barn Thank you, Farmer Tom I've got some exciting news Some lambs have been born Let's go and see Here they are Aren't they sweet? Can we? Can we see the lambs? Come down this way Oh, look The children have come to see them too Yeah, come This one's here Babies, baby lambs The lambs are all having a drink of milk Can you hear the lambs bleating? Farmer Tom helps the children into the pen to have a look The lambs feel all soft and warm Farmer Tom shows the lamb to the children He puts it down gently Alfie wants to feed one of the lambs He's spraying everyone with the milk Alfie thinks it's really funny Watch out, Farmer Tom The children have enjoyed seeing the lambs It's the end of another long day Farmer Tom has finished his work And is back at the farmhouse Mitch has had a fun day too I hope you enjoyed seeing the sheep and lambs See you again soon Bye Bye Let's go See the farm We've tried to test Let's go Bye