TYPES AND FUNCTIONS OF FARM IMPLEMENTS
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q57vyW3-Puo
Education
 Farm Implements. A farm implement is an additional farming device attached or mounted to the tractor to carry out a specific purpose during crop production. Implements can be understood better in the order they are used during crop production, from land clearing to post-harvest processing. 1. Land Clearing Implements. Mowers are used to clear vegetation on the land to allow other land preparation activities. Reciprocating Mower. Rotary Mower. 2. Primary Cultivation Implements. Plows are used to carry out the first opening of the land through cultivation. Mold Board Plow. Disc Plow. 3. Secondary Cultivation Implements. Harrows are used to refine the seedbed after primary cultivation. Disc Harrow. U.S. Spike-toothed harrow Harrows give the land an appropriate tilth by breaking the soil clods. Harrows also level the seedbed, destroy weeds and stir the soil thus adding air. 4. Tertiary Operations Implements They carry out additional cultivation activities to make the seedbed more suitable for growing certain crops. The ridger makes ridges leaving planting ridges and furrows that can be used to irrigate the crop. Rotivator, they are used in rice fields to produce a fine mud suitable for planting rice. 5. Subsoilers are heavy implements used for breaking hard pans and facilitate aeration and water infiltration into the soil. 6. Planting Implements Planters and seeders place seeds at the correct depth and spacing to obtain the required plant population per hectare. The seed drill 6. Weeding Implements Weeders are used for shallow cultivation to remove weeds. Tine Weeder 7. Sprayers Boom sprayers Boom sprayers are used for applying pesticides, herbicides or foliar feeds to crops during their growth. 8. Harvesting Implements Harvesters Harvesters remove mature crops from the field. The combine harvester does all harvesting operations including threshing and cleaning grains. 9. Arvesting Implements Forage Harvesters Forage Harvesters cut and chop livestock forage crops such as napier grass and maize stalks. 10. Arvesting Implements Root crop harvesters Root crop harvesters open up the root crop ridge, thus expose the crop for picking. 9. Post-harvest processing implements The shellers The shellers scrapes off maize grains from the cob. 10. Arvesting Implements Animal Drawn Implements include 10. Ox Plow 10. Ox Time Harrow Ox Pants Ox Tine Harrow Ox Carts 10. Ox Yes All the cars 10. No 2. No