THE HINDU NEWSPAPER 10th December 2018 Complete Analysis
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q7E_1xBo9Oo
Education
 Hello friends and welcome to the exams made simple and we are back again with the Hindu complete newspaper analysis for 10th of December 2018 So 10 December 2018 news analysis is seen before we start these are the questions for you today please do try to answer these questions in the comment section below The first question is Rakhine state of Myanmar is bordered with which of the following states So what is Rakhine state which is Myanmar which is which Indian state border The first question is Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Mizoram and none of the above Second question is Pulikalli is a recreational folk art from which of the following states Pulikalli is a recreational folk art in which state is the option of Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Odisha, West Bengal Third question is what is Kalari Payattu it has already been asked in UPSC examination once So what is Kalari Payattu options are tribal dance, Kerala backwaters a form of martial art, a form of Kerala temple architecture So these are the three questions for you today, please do try to answer these questions in the comment section below I want to say something else that there is a link to telegram groups for answer writing for materials in the description and comment section below You have also given our Facebook and Instagram pages there One request is that only those should join who are serious regarding answer writing and answer reviewing And all these things So if you have a review of the answer, you will review the answer I can only act as a mediator to bring you all at one platform If you can bring people to one platform After that, the work is to do that So please get involved there You do answer writing When you write the other, please review that also You do review it So if you have a knowledge enhancement So please This will be my opinion And then only you will be benefiting from the groups So only those should join who are serious regarding answer writing and reviewing and all these things Let's start with the news analysis friends Open the newspaper if you have that in a physical or digital format The first news is from the front page Center amendments rules for minorities from three nations Okay, so three nations Okay, so three nations Six minorities Center Citizenship amendment Now Now I will tell you about the background There is a contentious Citizenship amendment bill 2016 pending in the parliament Citizenship amendment bill 2016 already pending in the parliament Why is it pending in the parliament Because there are many contentions Like Muslims Exclude The six minority communities The same Hindu Sikh Communities Added And Muslims It has not And Now Bill is pending But what the government did Government What the home ministry What the government did They notified amendment to the citizenship rules of 2009 So now citizenship rules are 2009 Which is amended through a notification Government has brought amendments to the citizenship rules of 2009 Through a notification Now what they said There will be a separate column There will be a separate column Which will ask a question Do you belong to one of the following One of the minority communities From Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan So in three countries Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan In three countries Six minority communities Will be given a separate column In the three countries Which will be asked to the minority communities In the column In the column Who is asked to the minority communities Hindu Sikh Buddhist Parsi Jains and Christians Okay This will be aware that This will be done for six communities So The changes are made under the section 18 of the citizenship act of 1955 The changes are made under the section 18 of the citizenship act of 1955 So The citizenship act of 1955 So The citizenship act of 1955 Which three countries Are made for three countries Afghanistan, Pakistan and Bangladesh Which six communities are included Hindu, Jains, Sikh, Parsi, Christians and Buddhists And This will be aware that The citizenship act of 1955 Which three countries Are made for three countries Afghanistan, Pakistan and Bangladesh Which six communities are included Hindu, Jains, Sikh, Parsi, Christians and Buddhists And This will be aware that The citizenship act of the rules In 2009 So These are the facts which are important And The bill is pending already And This is the thing After this This will be a notice You will see what happens What happens Is it What happens Is it Or not Okay So These are the things which are happening Now citizenship rules have changed And Now that will include a separate column For This These six communities And From the three countries So this will be important Now life size sculptures to honor Dalit struggles What is happening is that In a small village of Vanji Nagram Vanji Nagram It is in Melur, Tamil Nadu Now they are building sculptures To honor the Dalit activists And all Okay So These are the people who have struggled with the community To build their communities To build their communities To build their communities To give them To give them To give them To give them To give them To give them To give them What they are doing is that They are forming these cultures For example A Dalit community member of Kandan And He took on the caste operation in the village And Spearheaded a movement to draw water from Vanji Nagram's public well In 1987 In 1987 In 1987 In 1987 In 1987 In 1987 In 1987 In 1987 In 1987 In 1987 So It will be called So It will be called It is one thing In this article In the article That Dalit struggles and sacrifices Are largely unheard in the mainstream media And literature So It is largely unheard in the mainstream media and literature It is largely unheard and in the mainstream media and literature. So, you will get a push through all these sculptures, and promote them, and see what they did for civil rights, what they did for equality, what they did for discrimination, so these are the sculptures and all. Now, there are 25 Dalit statues, they will make life-size statues, which have worked in different fields, for example, there are two women also, Viramal and Meenamal, so they had anti-Hindi agitations, and what did Viramal? Schools for Dalit girls in 1950s, so they started schools for Dalit girls, and there are many movements, many things that they did, but mainstream media, they don't see it in the mainstream media, they ignore it, so this is a good approach to honor these Dalit struggles, and they struggled, and faced discrimination, and after that, they did a lot of work, so this is a very good thing that is happening, okay? So, let's start, let's move to the next pages, let's move the next pages, see what news is important, so you can move with me only, okay? Now, the Kanur put on aviation map, so what has happened is that, it is the fourth international airport that has opened in Karnur, Kerala, so Kerala, the fourth international airport is opened in Karnur, and it is in Karnur, and after that, the most important part is that, Kerala has became the first state to have four international airports in India, Kerala has became the first state to have four international airports in India, and those four international airports, where are they? Thiruvananthapuram, Kochi, Kozikod, and Kanur, so Kozikod, Kanur, Kochi, and Thiruvananthapuram, which is the latest one in Karnur, and it is a green field airport, it means scratch, so it is a green field airport, and that is the thing that is important, and remember, Kerala is the first state to have four international airports in India, only state to have four international airports, now after the launch of GSAT-11, now the ISRO is waiting for a 200 crore ground system, okay, what has happened is that, recently you know that the heaviest satellite launched, which is called GSAT-11, and GSAT-11 is working for internet boosting, it is an internet boosting communication satellite, okay, so you need to boost the internet, the rural connectivity, the Bharat net project, and the rural connectivity, especially North Eastern India, which is Kashmir region, which is not connected, which is not connected, and the speed also increases, and the boosts of the speed, and the boosts of the network, basically, 4 satellites, which is left, which is already launched, so 3 satellites out of 4, have already been launched, I will tell you who are now, which is now, which is going to be launched, which is now released, which is now linked in 2019, which will be launched in 2019, and that will boost our internet connectivity, and the internet connection will be connected, which is the unconnected reasons, and that will also connect, so these will be all the things. Now this will boost our internet connectivity and the internet will also connect to India But GSAT 11 was the latest satellite We also need some infrastructure in the ground For example, we launched a satellite, we will have signals from there But for the signals to collect and process We also need a ground system here Now we want ground infrastructure So it will take nearly 200 crores to have a ground infrastructure across some of the cities So some cities across we need ground infrastructure So that the GSAT 11 data will be pushed from it We will have its benefits So where are these cities? So they will be made of the hub, the gateway In cities like Delhi, Bengaluru, Ahmedabad and Ranchi Delhi, Bengaluru, Ahmedabad and Ranchi In order to deliver high speed broadband services via giant satellite So high speed internet services, broadband services provide For the high speed internet services, broadband services provide Delhi, Bengaluru, Ahmedabad and Ranchi In 4 cities, internet hub will be made of the hub The hub will be made of the gateway In order to use the data that is coming from GSAT 11 GSAT 11 So the signals will be used for them Now I have told you that there are 4 satellites like high throughput satellites Which are called high throughput satellites High throughput satellites HTs So they have launched in order to assist the internet In order to assist the connectivity In order to assist the connectivity In 1 GSAT 11 1 GSAT 19 1 GSAT 19 And GSAT 29 So these 3 have already been launched GSAT 11 GSAT 19 And GSAT 29 Besides that I have said that there is another satellite that will launch And that is GSAT 20 There is a 4th one also And that is GSAT 20 Here it is written You can read it here Our target is to deliver close to a speed of 100 Gbps 100 Gbps speed I said 100 Mbps earlier But they want to give 100 Gbps speed through them Okay And they have planned a 4th satellite also And that is GSAT 20 And it will be launched in 2009 Through GSLV Mark 3 Okay GSLV Mark 3 Through 2019 So these are the things And I have told you first Jammu Kashmir And Northeastern states For the connectivity Reliable internet services Provide Basically All these things Plus The Bharat Net Project Which is 2.5 lakh Gbps Connected So that is a very important thing That is happening Let's move to the next pages Let's see What are the things What are the things What are the things What are the things Let's move to the next pages Let's see What are the important news Here Beautification plan has destroyed the oldest neighborhoods in Varanasi Now in Varanasi In Varanasi There is a Kashi Vishnath Precinct Development Project Now under this what is happening A strip of land which is measuring 43,636 square meter between the Vishnath temple and river Ganga So from river Ganga From the river Ganga From the river Ganga From the river Ganga From the Kashi Vishnath temple From the river Ganga From the Kashi Vishnath temple From the area Which is cleared of all the construction It is being cleared of all the construction Which is cleared of all the construction Which is cleared of all the construction Which is cleared of all the construction In order to develop this precinct Of Kashi Vishnath Kashi Vishnath Precinct Development Project Is named Now the news is That when it is cleared of all the construction So nearly 300 houses have already been demolished 300 houses Cleared of all the houses These are being erased These are being erased These are being erased Making a way for the development project Now what is happening is that This demolition is being destroyed This is being demolished That is being destroyed For the development and all What is happening is that You have to go to the buildings Now what is happening is that If you have ever went to Banaras If you have to go to Banaras Then you will get many buildings There are very narrow lanes There are many closely spaced buildings So please try To clear these houses These houses Cleared by These houses These houses They are being demolished And In the name of the development project What is happening is that Some of the oldest structures Are being demolished Very old houses Which is made in time of Kashi Vishnath temple Now they are also removed And they are also destruction So in the name of the development project What is happening is that Old culture and old heritage of Banaras Is being taken away Some people say A very good thing That Banaras has been defined By these narrow lanes and gullies Banaras The definition of the wall is from the narrow lanes So they are the USP The USP The USP If you go to the house You will understand That the wall is the USP How is the USP How is the USP How is the USP So you can create a corridor You can make it Kyoto And all What you want to make You want to make it But you are robbing Banaras Of its own identity You are robbing Banaras Of its own identity And all And all And a other thing Author has said that Compensation Is also an issue For people's feeling that The compensation is given That will give them They will not be able to resettle And rehabilitate After this So it is Kashi Vishnath Precinct development project Banaras And all I have done In the intellectual discussion I have done With this What can be a loss Development You are doing But The cultural robbing Is also going on Now Zika This virus Is not It is Japan International Cooperation Agency Jika It is Jika Jika Jika Jika Jika Jika Jika Jika Jika Jika Jika Jika Jika PugIST It is It is Jika Jika Jika Jika O S Yes Is crm I Called Thus Much Will M I Opposed now the land is being taken between Mumbai and Ahmedabad because the bullet train will remain in Mumbai from Ahmedabad and Jika is funding this project here Rs. 1.10 lakh crore is the total cost and the land is required to be 1400 hectares it will be acquired between Gujarat and Maharashtra so 1400 hectare land is required which will remain high speed the bullet can load the speed of the train and 750 passengers load capacity and Jika will be your 80% funding the Japan International Cooperation Agency has agreed to fund 81% of the total credit cost through a 50 year loan at interest rate of 0.1% of the total credit cost through a 50 year loan at interest rate of 50 years the total credit cost will be the total credit cost so Jika has said that they have given the assurance to these Jika has received some members from these people they have said that we will make sure that guidelines are being followed now Jika's guidelines are what? that there must be fair compensation for those whose land is required fair compensation is given Jika's rules Jika has said that we will do and this is the country's first bullet train corridor between Mumbai and Ahmedabad remember Mumbai's Ahmedabad the first bullet train corridor the other facts I have told you the project completion target was in August 2022 until 2022 it was completed so these are the things which are happening in India okay remember this now let's come to the editorial page the first editorial is regarding the current account deficit now we are talking about who we are talking about July to September quarter so this is on increased current account deficit in the July to September quarter okay so July to September current account deficit increased and it was up to 2.9% of the GDP which is a four year high 2.9% GDP now what are the reasons for this why did the increase increase in July to September quarter because of the high oil prices in the international market the most important reason was the high oil prices in the international market now current account deficit you know what happens let me tell you in just one line current account deficit basically how much dollar is going to our own in the name of the import and how much dollar we have to get after exports okay so that difference is now our dollars is going to get more why is it going to get more because we import oil more okay simple fund is the amount of dollars you have to get from the reserve currency and how much dollar you have to get from the reserve currency its difference is the current account if it is negative it is deficit if it is positive it is surplus in India in case it is negative why is it negative because our dollars are going to get more outflow now why the dollar outflow is more because we import a lot of oil and all and this is because the oil prices is because of our GDP is reached to 2.9% now the editorial highlights that at present if we come in September after October in the quarter then at present the oil prices have fallen now the oil prices are falling therefore no immediate threat is not no immediate threat is not but we need to do something as usual you shall have to move back to this quickly is going live into the new traditional underlying the vêpro damage is to be of the prices after the sorry you are the others making look on theuitive to diversify our energy resources, that we should not do oil, natural gas, solar energy, renewable energy, all these things we should also see. Now it further says that as long as foreign inflows are enough to meet our imports, current account deficit should not be a cause of concern. When we have normal foreign flows, then CAD will not give us much relief. This is what the author is saying. But one author has said that Western Central Banks, which Western countries are tightening their monetary policy. They might tighten their monetary policy. If they tighten the monetary policy, then RBI will also be forced to tighten our own monetary policy, so that we will maintain our investment. What will happen is that, what will happen is that, what will happen is that, what will happen is that local development is that local importers and exporters have a lot of problems that we will tighten, so if we tighten here, then the growth will affect the investment will be able to maintain. But the local growth will not be able to maintain. So this is speculation that if Western Central Banks will tighten their monetary policy, then RBI will also be forced to do the same, and then we will also be forced to do the same. And then we will have a little difficulty here. Okay. Now the editorial also says that, such as the problem of widening CAD needs structural reforms. The problem of CAD, the current account deficit problem is that every other day, every other quarter comes. So this is the problem of the investment. The problem of the investment is that, we need to take some structural reforms to the investment. So that we need to take some structural reforms to the investment. We need to take some capital inflows to bring more capital inflows. So that in India, the dollar is more than more. So that we will have to look at some other things. The other thing is that, we should not be over-reliant on the imported oil. So we should not do much over-reliant on the oil. So that's why we will tell you about some suggestions. If you have to remove the oil over-dependence, then you develop your biofuel. You develop biofuel development in India. You develop your reserves and local energy. What do you do with this? After doing this, you can do the same thing. Your reliance will break. And if it will break, then you will break. So this is the first article. Second, we have to look at air pollution. So this editorial was on the deaths caused by air pollution. Air pollution current, the deaths of the report, the Lancet. The global burden of diseases, 2017 report, the Lancet, in which air pollution killed an estimated 1.24 million people in India in 2017. In 2012, 12.4 million people died in India. 1.24 million or 12 million people. These many people were killed in 2017 alone. Now the editorial highlights that India's national standards for ambient fine particulate matter 2.5 is notoriously lax at 40 micrograms per cubic meter. The standard of PM2.5 is located here. It is located at 40 micrograms per cubic meter. And it is very lenient and very lax rules. But after that, 77% of the population was exposed to the level. After that, 77% of the population was exposed to the level. If we look at WHO's level, that is only 10 micrograms. So this is the difference. We have kept 40 micrograms. Then, 77% of the population is exposed to PM2.5. But the WHO standards are 10 micrograms. And there is no state in which it is less than 10 micrograms. So none state can match the WHO standards. And our standards are so lax and lenient. After that, we are also breaching it. So this is the problem in India. Now author highlights that The worst affected areas, like UP, Delhi, these areas. If we address the problem here, The net life expectancy might increase by 1.7 years. So 1.7 years, 1.5 years, 1.7 years, life expectancy will increase. If we address the problem here, Now the major reasons of Air pollution was said of Stubble burning and use of solid fuel in households. Stubble burning and use of solid fuel in households. So what should we do for Stubble burning? What should we do for government? Some incentive to provide to the farmers. Like they should tell them. A little awareness, provide that you can add it in biofuel. You can diversify it. Where can you use it? So these are the things that are happening. So this is what suggested. Second thing is that, Solid fuel burning, We should look for domestic biogas units, Solar cookers, Improved biomass cook stoves. So we should use all these things. Biogas units to use. So the solid fuel household can reduce the amount of solid fuel. This should be complemented by steps to reduce pollution by vehicles in the cities. So we should reduce the amount of vehicular pollution. How can you reduce the amount of vehicular pollution? So, You should give a boost to the public transport. So, Where you don't need to use more vehicles. Don't use vehicles. Don't use vehicles. Green transport. Basically, Pedals go more. Okay? 11 number of vehicles. Pedals go more. So these are the things which are being suggested in the article. I hope you have clarity. It's a very good article. Let's move to the lead article. Delhi and Paris. A tale of two cities. A tale of two cities. So, I just want to tell you why Delhi and Paris are going to be released. Because in Delhi, If you see, There are a protest of farmers. Farmers have come here. What is going on in Paris? Yellow West Movement. I told you that there are also going on the yellow west movement. Price rise or living standards. Because of that reason, Paris is going on. So, I will compare them and tell you. I will tell you. Now the lead article was on the status of human rights in India and the world. So, The status of human rights in India and the world. It has been compared to this article. Today, December 10th. Human Rights Day. Remember. This is December 10th. Human Rights Day. Because on this day, 1948. Universal Declaration of Human Rights was proclaimed in Paris. Universal Declaration of Human Rights was proclaimed in Paris. Very important thing. Thus, The author highlights that protest in Paris. The Yellow West protest. And Delhi. The farmers are highlighting how the basic human rights of dignity, justice and equality are being violated across the globe. This shows that the whole globe across the human rights basic virtues. Dignity, justice, equality. They are being violated. This is being violated. Now the author highlights that the language used in both the protestors. Delhi and Paris. They have very similarities. Very similarities. How is it? Like here and here, The two places are saying that businesses are getting the tax cuts. While agriculture gets diesel hikes. So, One way, Where business is getting the tax cuts. There is a rebate. They are getting the tax cuts. There is a rebate. They are getting the tax cuts. There is a lot of farmers. There is a lot of farmers. They are getting the tax cuts. They are getting diesel hikes. One way, Where factories are getting investment. Farmers do not get even the minimum price. This is the extent to which they are. I mean, What a bad country is. I asked a question yesterday. I asked a question to you. That those who feed the country. The people who feed the country. They are getting the tax cuts. They are getting the tax cuts. So, This is the stark reality of India. Remember this. Now, All this affects the article 23 of Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Now, Let's talk about the article 23 of UDHR. UDHR is not Universal Declaration of Human Rights. It is talking about the article 23. Now, Article 23 declares That everyone has a right to fair remuneration for his work. Okay. Everyone has a right to fair remuneration for his work. This is article 23 of Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Now, I ask you a question. What are you saying? Article 23 and Article 24 Indian Constitution. Okay. So, These two rights will be clear. Article 23 and Article 24 Indian Constitution. This is a question to you. Article 23 of UDHR. What is the Universal Declaration of Human Rights? That everyone has a right to fair remuneration for his work. Okay. Now, Author says that UDHR is under severe strain. As it is not legally winding. So, It was not legally winding. This is the cause. It is not legally winding. Therefore, It is not legally winding. It is not legally binding. Therefore, It is not legally binding. It is not legally binding. It is not legally binding. Therefore, It is not legally binding. Therefore, It is not legally binding. Therefore, It is not legally binding. Now, He further highlights that Curves on dissenters can be seen across the globe. So, They are not legally binding. They are not legally binding. They are not legally binding. They are not legally binding. So, You are not allowed to do wrong with them. First thing is that you are doing wrong to them. You are not giving them fair prize. You are not giving them what you promised to them. And then, When they dissent. When they oppose you. Then you curb them also. Then you give punishment to them also. For example, China, Brazil, Turkey, India, Egypt, So, The other thing. What happens to them? Well, The other thing is happening. After Kashmir, Then, Author of the author was talking about Human Rights. In Kashmir, Both the rights of the armed forces and the civilian population are being threatened in Kashmir. So, It is not only that the civilian population is threatened there. Armed forces are threatened there. There are also the armed forces who are working. Our armed forces are also working. They have to deal with many difficulties. Civilians and terrorists attack. These are to deal with them. So, Armed forces is also difficult there. he also highlighted that India has not ratified the UN convention against torture so another thing is that human rights is a UN convention against torture India has not ratified that the Supreme Court also said that the Supreme Court also gave them a law before and he highlighted that manual scavenging and childs and child marriage, gender screening they all are violating human rights and this is all practice in India so manual scavenging, child marriage, gender screening they all violate human rights and they all are in practice in India all of them are in India you will see gender inequality cases you will see child marriage cases and manual scavenging cases now the author highlights that there are 7 institutions that provide a hope for the protection of human rights in India they are in the name of the UN which will create a hope for the human rights in India first is judiciary which recently gave the right to privacy then second is the parliament which gave us the right to information at RTI then there is media which will not be scared and subborn sorry then there will be security personnel that protects our lives and human rights activists that protect our liberty security personnel that are very fair and human rights protection and the country's integrity and unity and the country's integrity and unity that is also a threat that we all have to keep together then there is creative cultural icons that will not surrender their autonomy creative cultural icons then there is a constitution which is the highest law of the land that will not be violated in India and then there are free elections which you make sure in India that there are so many democracy and free elections and they promise that whenever you feel you can change the government so these are the 7 institutions which promise that human rights will not be violated and it will not be anything that will be in India that will be in the conditions in India and will reach a very good state now let's move to the next page let's move to the next page tyranny of the majority basically this article is one of the criticism of both BJP Congress both parties are criticism both have given majority and it started giving a vow so India is being ruled by pluralism not by the constitution this is what the author said that in India the law is being made plural majority not as being made constitution or as being made need they are not being formed on the needs of all the Indians rather than they are being formed by the need of the majority the rules and the changes are the main value and majority rather than to all the Indians and democracy until the end of the year the author says that democracy cannot work till there is a rule of majority until the majority is being ruled by the rule then democracy is not being made right therefore there should be insignificance of majority and then only there will be significance of all the Indians until you don't have majority insignificance until you don't have all Indians until you don't have all Indians significance to the same that you can build a country not to make a country this country has 1.3 billion population they are so many people and they have to give value and they have to give value to all of them to all of them you have to give value so this is what the author is saying and some things in Indian constitution that trump the majority like fundamental rights but if you don't see fundamental rights and see the majority rule then sometimes you have to be violated for example fundamental rights for example fundamental rights say that there cannot be any discrimination on the grounds of religion, region, caste, color, sexual preferences and all but what is happening? is that happening? no, it is not happening whatever party comes to their ideology they think they are supporting their ideology they are the majority of the ideology and the people who are the majority form and the people who are the fans and the people who are the fans and the people who are the fans and the people who are the fans and the people who are the fans are going forward so for example currently the state we don't need to highlight it you don't need to know what is happening what is happening but this is not happening everyone has a place in the history everyone has a place in the constitution everyone has a place in the making of this country and nation a country and nation after making a nation every person has support rather than the community so these are the things which are happening now author has criticized PM also for not speaking on the rising tide of bigotry and violence whatever the things happen sometimes I feel like the Prime Minister is not saying they are not saying their stance changes for example any mob lynching cases or even following the name of the cow vigilantism the case of the cow vigilantism so at least being the Prime Minister of India you should be able to take your standard you should have to say a little bit but that is not happening that is what the author has said after that they have both BJP and Congress both criticized no party is good no party is good no party is good no party is good no party is bad everyone is saying they are they are birds of the same feathers and they are flocking together the court says that is what they are going for the majority rule they are going to cater to all the majority rules that all the majority rules would want to cater to them that they are going to make a vote bank and so all these things were discussed in the article and discussed discuss it it was necessary because this is intellectual this will develop your mind so this is the mind development basically that you have to think about that you have to think about that you have to think about the Iiadura saab- in Gujarat and the least number of deaths in West Bengal, Tripura and Madhya Pradesh, which is my state, so I am feeling proud for that, because of manual scavenging cases and all, and the highest number was in Gujarat, 26, so if you can see that the most manual scavengers are in the place, then it is in Uttar Pradesh, our Uttar Pradesh is top of everything, so whatever it is, it will be top of everything, in Uttar Pradesh, there are the most manual scavengers, then Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, if you don't want to see, Madhya Pradesh, Shattisgarh, here is a little number of cases of manual scavenging, so remember, this shows how much the manual scavengers, which is a prohibited process, manual scavenging is not allowed, then also many people are in manual scavenging, because they have nothing to do, they have nothing to do, they have nothing to do, they have nothing to do, they have nothing to do, they have nothing to do, so basically, they should be given proper skill training, they should be given vocational training, and then only self employment, and all these things, you can put in skill development, so this is what the author has discussed, here is a graph, in Gujarat, there was 26, in Rajasthan, there was 24, in Tamil Nadu, there was 24, and in Haryana, there was 21, in Uttar Pradesh, there was 17 deaths, so these are the things, which are saying that, saying a lot about the status of human rights in India, that many people are still doing manual scavenging, so that is the poor state of human rights in India, okay, let's move to the next pages, Rahul Bak's quota on women, so here I will not talk about any party, I will only tell you here, that the support is being said, that one third of the seats of the Lok Sabha, is being pushed on them, and you should get this, because the 108th constitutional amendment bill, which has been lapsed, 108th constitutional amendment bill, is being said, it is also being said, and it was also talking, that one third of the seats should be reserved, at least in the Lok Sabha and Rajasthan, for the women candidates, and if this happens, then women can collaborate more, and work for women empowerment, because until you don't bring women in policy, so you can expect that women will become good policies, so this is the 108th amendment bill, which has been lapsed, which is necessary, and Navy on a major capability upgrade, so Navy is doing its capability, and why is it doing, because in the Indian Ocean reason, there are rising concerns of Chinese presence, and the rising concerns of Chinese presence, and the chokes points, the chokes points, which strategically and economically, are very beneficial points, which are necessary, three or four chokes points, in the Indian Ocean region, and four chokes points, in the Indian Ocean region, so in that way, at least one major ship should be in India, they are trying to do that, then they are trying to improve, the next security provider, also, who wants to be a net security provider, and the maritime security provider, provide in the Indian Ocean region, at least, and this is the capability, like, what are the things coming, like, indigenous aircraft carrier, INS Vikrant, then project 15B destroyers, project 17A steel frigates, then project 28 anti-submarine warfare, anti-submarine warfare, offshore petrol vehicles, scorpion class submarine, like Calvary, Cauvery, these are all the things, INS Calvary, and these are all in the scorpion class, so these are all the things, that are increasing our capability, so you can see, that 32 ships are, under construction only, and they include INS Vikrant, at Kochi, in addition, the government has approval, has given the approval, for 56 ships, and six submarines also, and then project 75, in the project 75, and six submarines, are procured, and strategic partnership, model through, six submarines, under the project, 75 are being procured, so that is the thing, which is happening, and these are all things, increase our Navy capability, so this is very important point, now history, history's greatest arms race, is in Asia now, as the name is, by the ex-NSA, ex-NSA, which is Shiv Sankar Menon, you can see, he is very intelligent, and very good things, and he is blaming the, game of USA and China, for these, for this arms race, USA and China, because of the tensions, the entire Indo-Pacific area, is insecure, the entire Indo-Pacific area, has become insecure, because of the tensions, between USA and China, this is what he has said, and this is the other reason, that there is an ill-defined concept, of Indo-Pacific, Indo-Pacific concept, is very ill-defined, because of the Indo-Pacific, there are two components, one is continental, and the other is maritime, it is an ill-defined concept, because it, it seeds the continental order, to China, continental order, to China, and leaves only the maritime order, to the rest of us, okay, this is what the, what Shiv Shankar Menon has said, that the concept of, Indo-Pacific, ill-defined, is the two components, one is maritime, and continental, and continental, is completely, from China, and the maritime order, is completely, in the hands of China, and the maritime order, is kept on our, which is also, the China is interfering, so this will not, serve our purpose, they are saying that, India's purpose, cannot be served, by this alone, because we are both, a continental, as well as a maritime power, we are both, so why do we do maritime, and why do we do, the Indo-Pacific role, in the Indo-Pacific, the continental role, is decreased, so this is what, he has said, okay, and, another China, has said, that the tensions, in the US and China, in all countries, this is making, other countries, reacting to this, by strengthening, their own, military and hedging, against China, so what will happen, they will try to, strengthen their own, military, and strong, so basically, the Tessels started, arms race, when every country, is insecure, every country, should curb, each country, so what will happen, they will try to, strengthen their own, own, own arms, and all, and the whole thing, what will start, and what will start, arms race, and this is the history, of the most bad, arms race, as per, Shrikshankar Menon, even worse, than the USA, USSR, arms race, from that because now every country is doing a multi-polar order starting to start with every country so this is the extent to which this is dangerous all these things are discussed Bahrain criticizes Qatar Amir for not attending the GCC meeting GCC was not going to submit, Qatar is not going to go out Qatar is not going to go out of OPEC so let me tell the GCC members Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar and UAE these are the 6 members Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar and UAE 6 members and GCC headquarter which is in Riyadh remember that Iran, Iraq is not all members so GCC members are not coming to Iran and Iraq why did you tell us? because UPSC has asked this question that there was no GCC member, Iran was not the option so Iran was not the option Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, UAE these are the 6 members headquarter in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia it was founded in 25th May 1981 it was made in Abu Dhabi 25th May 1981 one thing I want to show you with this what is the map of this GCC region so you can see the biggest green part this is your kingdom of Saudi Arabia KSA then the bottom of the color you can see the color violet I think this is violet I don't know the color it is not written in it it is Yemen it is Yemen, Yemen is not the part then in pink in yellow Oman then you will see UAE then Qatar very small part Qatar in Qatar meeting from that too Bahrain you will see Bahrain then there is last in the orange Kuwait in Bahrain in sky blue Qatar in the red Bahrain and Kuwait in the red you will see the map this is the map of the Persian region this is the map you can see it once remember it very important let me revise it again once I will revise it the green portion of the kingdom of Saudi Arabia then you are in Yemen but Yemen is not a member in the bagel you will see Oman in the yellow color then you will see UAE then you will see in the sky blue Qatar in the red Bahrain remember it in the order this is a very important map again I hope you have clarity until now so its foundation in 1981 and you know that OPEC has been exit Qatar after 57 years because in 1961 he was a member and then he has left it so this is the thing that has happened ok now let's move to the next pages let's see some other news or not road map for the future basically what is in this graph is told road construction has gathered steam now road construction has gathered steam now road construction is getting more development in the name of road construction and the growth of road construction is getting more investment and the growth of the most in the sector because of their high sales of cement and all cement sector is getting more push cement the growth of cement is getting more investment and the growth of cement and all because of their high sales of cement and all cement sector is getting more push and the growth of cement is getting more but there are some concerns also some concerns some concerns also some concerns that I will discuss in the next part now any projects that are starting so the national highway development project is starting then you have a pharatmala project is starting which will be made pharatmala economic corridor project so these are the projects which are there pharatmala national highway development project all the projects are there and the length of roads which are being constructed and the growth of cement sector and all the green points are there but there are some projects which are yet to start some projects are still starting and some projects are still starting and some projects which are not starting so that is the case let me tell you that what are the grey areas first is the higher cost of land compensation the land compensation cost is much more because the road sector is here second that 11 banks are in the RBI which has restricted their lending so 11 banks are under the RBI's prompt collective action which has restricted their lending 11 banks are under the RBI's prompt collective action which has restricted their lending there are tight liquidity situation among NBFC so NBFC's is the tension of liquidity that is not being able to give that money okay so a tight liquidity situation is there on the non banking financial companies also so these are the things because of which the projects are yet to start many things that are not being completed and the green areas that are not being able to get some projects like NHDP and your pharatmala and they have been awarded and after that the cement sector has been growing and these are the things which are there green and as well as grey areas now NK Singh interview came from NK Singh so NK Singh is the head of 15th finance commission 15th finance commission head of 15th finance commission I will tell you about it as per the constitution there is an article 280 in the 20th in the finance commission it is a constitutional body it is a constitutional body it is constitutional body and it was the first time established in 1951 first time in 1951 in 1951 and this idea of the finance commission that is original to India it has not been borrowed by any country so in a lot of things that is not borrowed in such a constitution which is not the same Bank of China this is the finance commission like DPSP where we borrowed from fundamental rights, okay, the president's judiciary independence where else has been, emergency provisions where else has been, but in that way, the finance commission which is our own invention, we have not borrowed it from anywhere and president within two years of commencement of the constitution and thereafter expiry of fifth year or at such interval where he or she thinks necessary would constitute a finance commission he can form, okay so this is the thing that has been given in article 280, the membership is one chairman of four other members, there is one chairman and four other members in the finance commission, now question was asked in this interview what are the biggest challenges for the commission right now, so the first challenge you have told is GST calculation because they said that the projections are not stable for GST yet, GST collections are not stable now and we have to make a projection for 2020 to 2025, we have to make a projection for 2020 to 2025, so we are not sure that GST collection will be stable, so that is the first major challenge which we are facing and the second is that we are awaiting for the memorandum of central government, we have to wait for the memorandum of central government which the government tells us what are their expectations from us, okay so second challenge is that that what will be vertical distribution, vertical distribution means tax coming, how much state will keep and how much central government will keep, okay so now 42 percent is going on, okay so this is discussed this, this is a major challenge which is vertical distribution, which is which has that financial information which reveals professional transactions, because it is between calling money, it is necessary in which officials arelesia, so it a number of Però diciendo joke is not true, right, and they say that Gesen in which dissrowd has been done here and those have been rejected by the introduction, the but there was also a problem that there were umbrella schemes and the umbrella you put the other schemes in the umbrella what was the meaning of rationalization these are the things which were said by N.K. Singh who is chairman of the 15th finance commission the world may turn flat for Indian companies thanks to Sevi panel now the world is flat it is a book and it is a best seller by 3 times Pulitzer Prize winner Thomas Friedman so 3 times Pulitzer Prize winner Thomas Friedman they have a book written the word is flat now the word is flat it is basically the concept that there should be a level playing field when it is flat something is flat you mean it is level playing so the word is flat means there should be a level playing field for all the companies and everyone should get equal opportunities level playing field for all the companies and everyone should get equal opportunities this is the word is flat who has written a book 3 times Pulitzer Prize winner Thomas Friedman Thomas Friedman 3 times Pulitzer Prize winner world is flat concept what is the concept that there should be a level playing field for all the companies and equal opportunity to all now Sevi has recently made a panel and what is it doing now now they are providing level playing field to our Indian companies some Indian unlisted companies some Indian unlisted companies unlisted Indian companies unlisted unlisted unlisted unlisted sie to for equity raising and all international market depository receipts so are something yes they can go for depository receipts but they cannot do list their shares overseas they can't buy shares overseas but now the panel is recommending that you need permission to give the benefits of the firm can benefit in the form of alternative source of capital when you raise your shares overseas market when you share a share of another company if you buy shares of another company then you will get capital second benefit is that Indian investors could benefit by the way of enhanced diversification of portfolios so diversification of portfolio will get Indian investors will get benefit but there is requirement that now it will be amended in the foreign exchange management act and companies act so there are amendments required in foreign exchange management act and companies act and that will happen and the government will also be delivered and then this will be allowed that Indian companies which are listed Indian companies will be listed in foreign overseas market they can list their shares in the foreign overseas market so this is the thing that has been suggested it is a good suggestion but let's see if it happens or not now this is the sports section page news last news is on bioplastics bioplastics may not be a viable alternative this is what has been said in our report bioplastics are climate friendly alternatives to the petroleum based plastic which we use normal plastics is used by petroleum refinery products and the oil industry is used by oil industry so it is not eco friendly it is not eco friendly it is not very much net carbon emissions but bioplastics which are net carbon emissions are zero in bioplastics which are net carbon emissions are zero and what is happening is that the report in Iyus that the bioplastics produce and the demand will increase so what will happen is that that will change the land use globally what will happen is that bioplastics are used globally and people will clear the forest and these things will be more because bioplastics are formed from maize, wheat, sugar cane and all these things will be made from raw materials so people will clear the forest and then they will shift towards maize, wheat and sugar cane and what will happen is that this will lead to increase in the conversion of forest area into arable land which can be more important which can be more important and this will lead to the conversion of forest area into arable land which can be more important and environmental cost which can be more important and we can see environmental cost this is what the report has said bioplastics may not be a viable alternative why? because this will change the land use bioplastics maize, wheat, and all the things and the forest will change the demand and when China will start to change the land use and it is estimated that by 2050 plastics could alone be responsible for 15% of the global CO2 emissions so global CO2 emissions 15% of the global CO2 emissions is due to plastics and it will be established in 2050 so this is what has been said in the report but this is not in bioplastics but this is not in bioplastics so let's see what works but that is it from the day friends I hope you liked our video please do like and subscribe and please do provide your feedback that is the most important thing thank you and have a nice day