Abiotic factors affecting crop production (Documentary)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q89oJzCTliw
Education
 GROP PRODUCTION Crop production deals with the production of various crops including food crops, fiber crops, sugar, oilseeds, and others, which are the basis for providing the livestock industry with feed and the population with food and livelihood. However, it is not an easy process because its success is dependent upon biotic and abiotic factors. Our topic is all about how abiotic factors such as light, temperature, water, relative humidity, atmospheric gases, wind, and climatic stresses affect crop production. In order to maintain plants, light is an important factor. The amount of light received by plants determines its growth, development, and how long it stays active. Plant light interception can be improved through proper cultural or management practices such as weed control and spacing. Three aspects of light are light intensity, light duration, and light quality. Light intensity influences the manufacture of plant food, stem length, leaf color, and flowery. Generally speaking, plants grown in low light tend to be spindly with light green leaves. A similar plant grown in a very bright light tends to be shorter, better branches, and have larger dark green leaves. There are factors affecting light quality like location, season, atmospheric gases, plant factors, smoke, dust, and moisture. Increasing the time plants are exposed to light can be used to compensate for low light intensity, as long as the plant's flowering cycle is not sensitive to day length. Increased light duration allows the plant to make sufficient food to survive and grow. However, plant requires some period of darkness to properly develop and should be exposed to light for not more than 16 hours per day. When a plant gets too much direct light, the leaves become pale, sometimes burn, turn brown, and die. Day-neutral plants flowering are not regulated by photo period. Flowers over a wide range of day length like banana, citrus, and coconut. Short day plants, these are plants that flower in short days like brisantimum, pineapple, coffee, rice, sesame, soybean, and wingping. There are also long day plants. These are the plants that flower in long days like red, aster, onion, and running. Crops are most sensitive to high temperatures at their reproductive state in grain filling or fruit maturity. However, plant dispenses to temperature totally affects plant's growth, epinological and morphological changes, which occur during plant development. When the temperature is high and humidity is normal, more stomachs will open, letting in carbon dioxide for active photosynthesis. If the air is excessively dry, the plant is wilting, the stomatal openings closed, thereby reducing photomathetic activity and plant growth, which in turn inhibits plants' processes and functions. High heat stress can cause a reduction in plant stomatal conductance, which reduces plant transpiration rate, causing reductions in plant productivity and yield. Humid air directly contributes to problems such as foliar and root diseases. Slow drying of the growing medium, plant stress, and loss of quality, wherein decelerate crop productivity. Managing the growth and development of plants involves manipulating a growing environment. Water is the most important factor for proper and healthy production of crops. Plants require huge quantities of water continuously during their life. This is the major component of plant photoplasm, 90-95% on FW basis. Maintains turquidity plant cell and raw material for photosynthesis. Water affects the opening and closing of stomata, and controls exchanges, gases for photosynthesis, and regulating plant body temperature. Water also serves as a solvent for plant food and nutrients from the soil. Practically, it plays an important role for plant preparation, efficient utilization of fertilizer, seed germination, establishment of transplant, flowering, and plant nutrition. Higher atmospheric carbon dioxide levels have been found to have two significant effects on crops. They increase crop yields by speeding up photosynthesis, which promotes growth, and they lessen the quantity of water crops used via transpiration. Photosynthesis occurs when plants combine sunlight, atmospheric carbon dioxide, and water to create oxygen and carbohydrates for growth and energy. Mound moving air or wind is effective for pollination, and it can alter the balance of hormones. It increases the supply of carbon dioxide to the plants, resulting in greater photosynthesis rates. While a strong wind can cause damage to the crops, decreasing crop production. The main climatic factors affecting crops outputs are higher temperature, ultra precipitation patterns, and the rising of CO2 content in the atmosphere. The demand for water from crops will grow as a result of soil moisture loss brought by an increase of air temperature. It is expected that an increase of heavy rainfall and droughts, temperature swings, salts, and insect pest attacks will reduce crop yield and increasing the risk of farming. Abiotic factors are the non-living parts of the environment that have major influence on living organisms, especially plants. The most important abiotic factors include light, water, wind, relative humidity, temperature, atmosphere gases, and climatic stresses, which influence plant production and the amount of organic matter available as a food. upload rapid fark나特 int encuentran a transgender community in the inner states The most important Institute of Technology potential for right-wing and Coronavirmak prova because of爸爸 Maite's