2023 UPSC IAS Mains answer writing batch - Agriculture lec 1
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q_Rtc63KJNI
Education
 Let me show you. So UPSC is a different subject. If you can see, you are studying agriculture. There are environmental and biodiversity. There are agriculture related topics. When you are studying economy, you are studying agriculture. There are many social issues with agriculture. Like caste, like patriarchy. So if you can see, agriculture is a hot topic. You can see policy and governance. Like the PANWAR, ANTOLAN, or PAHINA, or PAHINA. There are no other topics. Because agriculture related topics are not only in GS paper 3. Agriculture related topics you will find in GS papers 1, 2, and 3. At least 3 papers. I haven't seen ethics yet, but who knows? You know, farming ethics, you know, ethics in agriculture or ethics in sustainable farming. If you ask something like that, you can ask one question. Now, in paper 1, you are to expect questions. For example, land reforms, how they were socially determined? Or were they a social failure or a political failure? Or a political failure, if you have a question like that? See, then? Or they are asking British times words and their land-revenues system associated with agriculture, New situation like 67, not overpast, legislature like 10. The wildlife, k revenue farmers adopted absent landlordism that used to be there absentee landlordism intermediation all these things we think we are concerned about agriculture issues this is British Times we are trying to deal with them a little bit now we have a lot of policies that went into creation of the agricultural landscape that you look at today but my feeling is that this is something that should always be very concerning topic for you because questions if you see agriculture you will increase and come so let's see means is a determining topic here we are if you look at the slavers major portion of slavers is also dedicated to agriculture see major crops and cropping patterns in various parts of the country different types of irrigation and irrigation system storage transport marketing of agricultural produce then issues related to irrigation then e-technology in the aid of farmers whatever has the related constraints then issues related to direct and in that farm subsidies minimum support system public distribution system then issues of buffer stocks food security technology emissions economics of animal rearing food processing and related industries in India scope significance location upstream downstream requirements supply chain management then land reforms in India so if you look at it one two three four this much if I look at the rest of this labors of economy it looks dwarf in front of just one topic that is agriculture agriculture now I have highlighted highlights with you share it one of agriculture definitely use so I hope you have written questions on the last time we created some questions out of it and as far as pyqs are considered let's look at some of the agriculture related questions that we have seen so far so last year 2022 they asked what are the major challenges of the public distribution system in India how can it be made effective and transparent this is one I can elaborate the scope and significance of the food processing industry in India so this number even labor productivity question is the most of our labor engaged agriculture and there is a issue so this angle can be connected to question you can ask what are the main bottlenecks in the upstream and downstream processes in of marketing of agriculture products in India what is integrated farming system how is it helpful for small and marginal farmers in India again 15 number question so you can question direct total question paper total economy questions are 10 20 30 40 50 or 80 95 to an extent so 95 50 marks is agriculture this goes to 60 also you will see how did land reforms in some part of country help to improve socio economic conditions of the marginal and small farmers distinguish the show the do you agree that Indian economy has a V-shaped recovery rapid inclusive growth last year is an exception in the future what are the main constraints in transport and marketing of the agricultural produce in India what are the challenges and opportunities in the food processing sector it is their favorite question every year after one year how can income of farmers be substantially increased by encouraging food processing what are the major factors responsible for making rice wheat system a success in India I shared a whole chapter shared with if it you will know you know the biggest factor is MSP in spite of success how has this system became a bane in India suggest measures to improve water storage and irrigation systems so 4 questions 8 from agriculture in 2019 and how has integrated farming system helpful in agriculture production integrated farming system in 2022 there is repeated topic as it is and there is there also you have prepared this standard question you are going to elaborate the impact of national watershed project in increasing agriculture production from water stressed areas what are the contributions of Dr. MS Swaminathan and M. Vishwe Suraya in the fields of water engineering and agricultural sciences then uh what are the reformative steps to be taken by the government of India to make food green distribution system more effective elaborate the policy taken by government of India to meet the challenges of food processing sector again look what food processing is a favorite question how can biotechnology improve the living standards of the farmer 10 questions if you have 10 questions 5 6 questions only for agrigal this was one of the years when the agriculture came in 2018 I'll give some examples of GS Swiffer 1 2 economy question so how new state economy affect WTO 1 then here it is what do you mean by minimum support price how will MSP rescue the farmers from low income trap examine the role of supply chain management of fruits vegetables food items how do they eliminate the number of intermediaries this intermediation major concern agriculture then move forward Sikkim is the first organic state of India what are the ecological and economical benefits of organic state assess the role of national horticulture mission in boosting production productivity and income of horticulture farms how far has it succeeded in increasing the income of the farmers how has the emphasis on certain crops brought about change in cropping pattern in the recent past elaborate the emphasis on millet production and consumption so going through all these questions you can see the questions right up to 2014 we have them one thing should be very clear the areas of emphasis within UPSC for the section on agriculture so let's first just earmark the areas and then start working on those areas one by one okay give me just one moment let me open a white board for you and you should be ready with your pen and paper visible is the white board visible yes sir okay so as far as agriculture is concerned which areas are you know the first area is land reforms which you have the topics are essentially areas here but this is just to clarify second is green revolution and what faces are in the third area is agricultural agricultural inputs the magical inputs ki baat kata hoon that means irrigation land labor capital seed fertilizer and technology okay then fourth area is propping patterns cropping pattern so india crop patterns you have geography so this is something to be worked out from geography mom prediction marketing coordin pip Depvt crew страх pirate jealousy règne two and food security food security whose n compris you supply change management supply chain management. Public distribution system for National Food Security Act. These are topics. These are lines. Then, sixth area of our work is agricultural extension. Agricultural extension. So, that is the area of trying to make farmers more aware. Educating farmers. So, this is how many schemes are going to be used to where farmers are giving information about like DD Kisans, etc. N Kisans. All these different key technologies in the aid of farmers. So, here we go. Okay. After that, Agri Marketing. Agriculture Marketing. So, this can be said. So, there is Agricultural Price Policy. Price Policy. Then, APMC Act. And Models. Then, Enam. Then, Farm Laws. So, Pending Reform. So, Pending Reform. And Pending Reform. In Indian Agriculture. So, these are the issues agriculture marketing is related. Then, agricultural exports. Next level. The external sector is the Agri Export. So, there are various organizations like Apeda, Agricultural Produce and Export Development Authority. There are Agricultural Export Zones, which are associated here. And, what are the recent initiatives that we are doing with respect to agricultural exports? So, WTO Agreements and all. Okay? Ake, is me Saati, Agricultural Marketing in the Agricultural Subsidies and WTO. Ake, that is concern area. WTO Agreement. So, there are WTO regulations in which blue box subsidy, amber box subsidy, you have all capital M's. So, these are the areas when we consider the means for agriculture. Now, this will be more useful to look at the document that I shared with you today morning. Now, if you look at the Ministry of Agricultural report that comes from time to time, every year annual report is an annual report has so much information that we get all questions for data and analysis to get there. So, studying that one report is much wiser now rather than just revising you basic notes you have made basic notes. This will be my advice to you. So, this is the one that we are going to focus upon the most. So, let me just take you to the report. Nowex in some Here it is. The first is National E-Governance Plan for Agriculture. Direct question. Mission for Integrated Development of Horticulture. Then National Beekeeping and Honeykeeping Mission. These are all things. Food Security Mission. Oil Seeds. National Mission for Sustainable Agriculture. You saw that as you asked the National Horticulture Mission, the question is, how are you doing all the things? So, for that, we got points from here. Data from here. But it's a lot more detailed. What do you want to do with this? What do you want to do with this? What do you want to do with this? So, that I will help you do. Like this. PM Kisaan. National Crop Insurance Program. Agricultural Credit. Agriculture Marketing. Trade. Fishy Vikas. Drought Management. International Corporation. So, everything. Integrated Scheme for Agriculture Census and Statistics. Submission on Agricultural Extension. These seed planting materials submissions can be sent. You can read. Just 1-10. Then, gender perspective in agriculture. So, feminization of agriculture is a concern. So, it's got 1-2 things to get. Then, summary of audit paras and observations. So, just going through it once. We'll do. Then, departmental accounting organization. We don't have access. We don't have access. Now, I think it's worth seeing. So, if you look at the report on how much you can do, how much you can do, how much you can do. Now, we'll see. For example. So, before going into it, this will lead us to the document. 1 thing I want to clear. Going back to your whiteboard. And that will give you the entire idea of where to put these things to you. What you have seen on your own. Potato of all things. So, to speak. Agriculture. So, if you look at agriculture. See, any industry sector. Whether it's industry or agriculture or service. Whether it's all sectors in our economy. All sectors have become a overall understanding of forward and backward linkages. So, in their center, I keep policy. Because this is the guidance tool for all kinds of linkages in the economy. And within this, we can use. Give me a moment. So, this is the policy being the central part. On this side, we are going to have the backward linkages in agriculture. Backward linkages means. The plant is ready to prepare. The plant is ready to prepare. The plant is ready to prepare. They call it backward linkages. After preparing. Once the crop is ready. What all is to be done. That is the forward linkages. So, starting with the very basic agriculture. Kee liye catch a input ke level pe. So, these are agricultural inputs. Inputs ki puri ek list. Mane upar diya aapko. Okay. So, land. Duhwara se likhra hou hou. Labor. Labor. Capital. Seed. Petalizer. In sab ke oper ek ek ek ek point. Ham ne tiar kar lena hai. Abhi. Jabhi ye report apadho ge. This is somewhere you need to put the points from the. Agricultural annual report. Okay. Petalizer. Then. Technology. Technology. Amthar pe seed is the harbinger of technology. But today we are using also e-technology. So, in the inputs only this will go. Laser. Etc. Whatever. We are using water leveling techniques. For example. So, all this goes here. Then after these inputs. The second thing that comes. Is. Your. What do you think? Backward linkage me or ke aata hai? Techniques of farming. Cropping pattern. So, that is also determined right here. Then once it is ready. All this. Then. There are cropping patterns. And you know techniques of farming. Wo i dhri lihtet hai hai. Techniques of farming. Let's see organic farming. Hamari paas hai. Chemical farming hai. Who i dhri lihti ni kai aata hai. Let's see direct seeding of rice. For example. So, techniques of farming. Here hai hai. And then there is harvest. Once there is harvest. After that there is. Sorting. Packaging. Certification. We organic. Get organic certification and everything. Take it. So, this is one. End of the spectrum. Thereafter there is logistics. Logistics me kya aata hai? Transport. And. Storage. These two chihve. Take it. So, you know FCI ke gudam vaghira hai. Phrir is ke baal aati hai. Agricultural markets. Phrir is ke baal aata hai. Either PDS. Public distribution system. Or open market sale. OMS. Or inflation management. Jho dousra. Hamaara tariqa hai. Or. Tisra hai. Retail. Ab retail. Ke saath saath. Ek or chiz jude jati hai. Export. Agricultural export. So, all these topics are lined up like this. In the forward and backward linkages. Forward linkages are essentially. Trying to. You know. Make the things reach the end consumer. While the backward linkages are just the production part. Abhi har ek chiz ke ooper. UPSC ne aapke topics ki distribution dehi hai. I say land hai. To land reforms ki baat ham dhata hai. To us mein hume maalum hai ki phase one of land reforms aada successful nita hai. In the end. Lekin phase two of land reforms mein kaphi kam chal rai. Haiya na. Do you remember? Hello. Phase two of agricultural reforms mein kya aata hai? Anybody? What all is the part and parcel of phase two agricultural reforms? Gession? Kone rataya? Land acquisition law hai. Land pooling system hai. Land leasing ke ooper model land leasing law hai. So many laws hai bin hai. Or in subka basic structure aapne padhra kha hai. Aagir aapne meze agnical tep padha hua hai. Ya otherwise kaehi se bhi aapne notes work out kiya hai. To definitely aapne iska a basic structure joh hai. Voh tiyar kiya hooga. Agricultural sir ka. So uske anndar ye wale topics ke basic points, joh basic attributes hai, woh worked out hai. Hame ne joh question answers aapne dhi hai. Uske anndar bhi ye points sare work down hai. So nothing to worry. Aagir nahin pada tha kahi se toh yahaan pe un chizo ki urpi ho jayegu. Tick hai? Ab joh data hai, usko nikalke yaha pe dhalna shurru karna aapne. Aapne pen and paper hatne rakhna. Jais jais se main report pardha daunga, Chizayi yaha pe underline karta daunga, Aapne voha pe ye later on apne ad kar lenge. Tick hai? So, ready with the report? Shall we start? Digitization of land records, very good. Contract farming, SAM, pesticides. So, yes. Fine. So, agriculture plays a vital role in India's economy. Even today, 54.6% of the total workforce is engaged in agriculture and allied activities as per census 2011 and accounts for 18.6% of gross value added at current prices, not constant, current prices, during 2021-2022. Aapke baas agriculture ka koji bhi question na hai. Any Tom, Dick and Harry question, chahe wo food processing pe hai, chahe wo kisihi bhi cheez pe hai, ye wala pehla aapka opening statement rahe ga. Dal nahin dal nahin. Ab aza ye land use statistics, wait. So, as per the land use statistics 2018-19, total geographical area of the country is 328.7 million hectares, out of which 139.3 million hectares is a reported net zone area and 197.3 million hectares is the gross cropped area with cropping intensity of 141.6%. Gross cropped area with gross cropped area. What is the difference between the net zone and the net zone? If we take a single one-time, if we take two times, then 200% cropping intensity will be 200% cropping intensity and the gross cropped area will be double. Now, because we take a single one-point-four times, we take a single one-point-four times, so this is 141% of our cropping intensity. And the gross cropped area also, if you look at 139, if you look at the net zone area, it will be 40% higher. Okay? So, net zone area works out to be 42.4% of the total geographic area. So, there is a situation right now. And the net irrigated area is 71.6 million hectares only. If you now look at it, 71 is how much percentage of 139? Almost half. Yeah. So, almost 50% of India is irrigated. Rest of the land is not. Okay? So, you have irrigation statistics. Where I have written irrigation, in the chart, let it be in the chart. Let it be 50%. Just this. Where I have written land, let it be 139.9 million hectares. MHA. Land use statistics, 2018-19. This figure is rather important. This is not. Okay? Then, net zone area, like with land, add a score to 42.4%. So, like this. Just add this much. So, then, you have a comfortable zone there. This table is not working. We don't have any percentage. We don't have any percentage. We don't have anything. Okay? So, here we come. So, percentage of gross irrigated area over gross cropped area is 52. 0.3%. So, it's okay, 50% as-pass our area is irrigated. I'm simply itna yada yada 1.3 is many bendy 0. Okay? Aagee. Now, again, this is particularly of no use to us. We don't have any figures like this. We don't have any figures like this. Now, come to this. Cross value added. So, as per the provisional estimates of national income given by the National Statistical Office, the agriculture and allied sector have contributed 18.6% to GVA. The same fact is that we don't have anything. Okay? Let's do it. Look, GVA of agriculture and allied sectors and its share in the total GVA of the country at current prices during last six years is as follows. So, if you look at the simple estimates of the trend, then 18 to 20% GVA. Very simple. 2016 and 2022 I can say that for the last five years, the average has been between 18 to 20 years. Gross value added. Okay? That's it. Just so much. 18 to 20% gross value added over the last five years. So, agricultural GDP is here. We have to come here. Growth in GVA of agriculture, and allied sectors. So, how has it grown? How has it grown? Which areas are the most growing? This is going to be seen. So, now, just see this time situation. 2016-17 it was agriculture and allied in general 6.8. Very good growth. Okay? If you see this most growth areas, that is livestock and fishing. These two. Now, if you look at it, so, now, the summary is not coming. The last year, negative growth was a negative growth. But, now, also, livestock and fishing will give you the highest growth. Rainfall, tension is not going to be. We don't need rainfall statistics for agriculture. We don't need them for geography. Like just anything, of the news item, we don't need it. the present monsoon .enix in kilograms per hectare and then sugar can be made with rice and rice is made with a major crop. That's all. Moving forward, no need for all these tables. Now, see how many pages are in this. 11 pages. It's not in 10 minutes. It's not in this. Okay, come to this. The total food grain production in the country as per 2022-23 Karef is 149.92 million tons, which is higher by 6.8 million tons. So that is not required. Our last years, we always go a little bit lower, but it doesn't matter much. So this is it. A general figure, we have food grain production. You have to write it under harvest. Karef, 149. Yeah, 150 million tons. Just remember that much. Okay. Then, millets, we have more important. We have to keep a little focus on the year. Because in the International Year of Millets, India is a major concern. It's an MSP. Now, the government's price policy for major agricultural commodities seeks to ensure remunerative prices to the growers of their agricultural produce with a view to encouraging high investment and production and safeguard the interest of consumers by making available supplies at reasonable prices. Now, towards this end, the government has announced the MSP for 22 mandated crops, based upon the recommendations of commission on agriculture costs and prices, after considering the views of concerned state government, chief ministers and departments. Now, the 22 mandated crops, which are the two commercial crops? Which are the two commercial crops? The means of the means. The means of the means. So just move forward. The 14 of our crops have been a food crops, 6 rubbish crops, and other than that, two commercial crops. They are jute and kupra. So that's all you need to remember. Then, in addition, the MSP for toria and de-hust coconut are also fixed on the basis of MSP of rapeseed and mustard and kupra respectively. This is again more prelim specific, not meat specific. So prelims, the intent of MSP is the most important thing. So why MSP? Now we can ask because MSP was a major demand of farmers during the struggle agitation. Then, while recommending MSP, CACP considers important factors like cost of production, overall demand supply situation of various crops in the domestic and world market. Then, domestic and international prices, international crop price parity, terms of trade between agriculture and non-agriculture sectors, likely effect on price policy on the rest of the economy and minimum 50% of the margin over cost of production. These are the same things, but what is the formula? Basically, what is the formula? You have studied A2 plus FL. Production cost plus whatever is the family labor if it had to be paid instead of family people working within the agriculture. So that is taken alongside. Now, the union budget 2018-19 had announced a predetermined principle to keep MSP at 1.5 times the cost of production. And this cost of production is calculated by A2 plus FL. Accordingly, the government has increased the MSP for all mandated kharif and rabhi crops and other commercial crops with a return of at least 50% overall, which we have set up. Highest increase in MSP of rabhi crops has been in lentils. In the numbers, it comes in rupees 500 per quintil, followed by ripseed, mustard, 400 per quintil, then safflower 209 per quintil. This is just general. Then barley, gram, all MSP has increased. So you have to keep an idea of MSP in general. In paper, you will remember that. You will remember that. You will not have to keep the figures in the figures. The highest absolute increase in kharif crops has been in sesame. It is sufficient. This is all the time to be needed. If there is a specific question on MSP, then you will need to mention these things. The expected return of farmers over their cost of production are estimated highest in case of bajra, followed by tour and udud. For the rest of the crops, it is 50%. So the government basically promotes millets, it is the most important thing. It is the most important thing to be needed. Now, the whole table is not the same. Come forward. Doubling farmer income. In 2016, the government has been working in the work out of 2016. The Inter-Ministerial Committee has recommended it. Then the committee submitted its report on doubling farmer income in September 2018. What was the name of this committee on doubling farmer income? Anybody? Which committee was responsible for doubling farmer income? Nassin? Annie? Was it Ashok something? The Dilwai committee? Yes, Ashok Dalwai committee. Ashok Dalwai committee. Okay. Now, what they have done the basic work out? To achieve the objective, the committee identified seven sources of income growth for farmer. Now, this is what I remember. If there is a question in agriculture, then these are our work out areas. So increase in productivity, increase in livestock crop, livestock productivity, resource use efficiency. So reduction in cost of production, increasing cropping intensity, diversification of high value agriculture, remunerative prices for farmers produce, shift of surplus manpower from farm to non-farm occupation. So these were the seven basic techniques. Now, in line with this strategy, as suggested by the DFI committee, government has adopted various reforms. So what reforms are they? And policies that focus on higher income for farmers and implemented various developmental schemes, programs and so on. The schemes, programs and initiatives include, So, that is the same. Increased MSP, 50% which is increased by the budget. In 2018, on this, A2 plus FL formula cost calculate. Supplementary income transfer under PM Kisan, Rs.6,000 per year for farmer without looking into the farmer. The small and big is, in three installments. So that is there happening every year now. Prop insurance center, Pradhan Menteri, Fasalvima, Yojana. So although it has been altered for many states, The central contribution is increased for states. The central contribution is 25% of the percentage. The PMFBY is 2.0. The central state contribution has changed a lot. Now it is 75-25. In many states, it is 80-20. 25% is with conditions. Certain kind of agricultural reforms and all kind of conditions. But this is the kind of situation that they are to be working upon now. And in this way, Pradhan Menteri, Fasalvima, Yojana, states can implement the states. For example, Punjab is not going to do it. Okay? And given the present monsoon situation, now the Punjab government will be more than the more. Better access to irrigation under the Pradhan Menteri, Krishis Chai, Yojana. So now there is water use efficiency that is being talked about in almost every other news column. So this deals with that. More crop per drop. Special attention for the creation of infrastructure through agricultural infrastructure. Fund worth 100,000 crore rupees or 1 lakh crore rupees. Then new procurement policy under PM ASHA in addition to the Food Corporation of India. Operations, Kisan credit card offering production loan to even dairy and fishery farmers besides agricultural crops. This was in 2019. Formation and promotion of 10,000 farmer producer organizations. In 2020, it was announced in 2021. The national mission on sustainable agriculture aims to involve and implement strategies to make Indian agriculture more resilient. Now all of you are given in the government initiatives in agriculture. Adoption of drone technologies in agriculture announced in this year's budget. Benefits accruing from beekeeping, Rashtree Gokul mission, Blue Revolution, interest subvention, agroforestry, restructured bamboo mission and implementation of new generation watershed guidelines. Focus on application of digital technology, all stages of agricultural value chain. Not only in marketing, production. Supply of fertilizers to farmers at a subsidized price, national fertilizer policy, so as to reduce the input cost. These all the things that your government initiatives are very straight and clear. Please remember to keep the means. Because we don't have to write. Maybe you have a question from any angle, in particular sector, you have to mention two things. A double farmer income, Ashok Dalvai committee report recommendation. Government did this. Whether it comes to the Hottikulture or not, it can be used anywhere. And there are two things I have to mention. One is Ashok Dalvai committee report. And according to that, this is the government initiative. Anywhere, everywhere. This will fit. Okay. Then, now all these, this is the funding definitely. Budgetary, non-budgetary, both of these support. Government. So, there is a higher budget allocation. Right now, it is about 1,24,000 crore rupees is the agricultural budget. This is the budgetary allocation. This is the budgetary, non-budgetary financial resources such as creating a corpus fund. Like micro-irrigation fund, agricultural infrastructure fund, Pradhan Mantri, Matsya Sampada, Yujana, Animal Husbandry, Infrastructure Development Fund and so on. In funds, the government funds, collateral free loan available is available to us. Or direct infrastructure augmentation spend. So, budgetary and non-budgetary, both kinds of allocation are there. Due to implementation of these, what is the impact of this? So, efforts of government for positive implementation of these schemes are there for yielding good results and income of the farmers. As a part of Azadi Ka Amrit Mahatsav, Indian Council of Agricultural Research has released a book which contains compilation of success stories of 75,000 farmers. So, government ke initiative se kuchh result ta raha ya nai. So, woh results show karne ke liye aapne bhi yehi work out ko haa pe lik de na hai. ICAR nne book launch ke hai, usme itne saari success studies ha ha maare paas. Okay, now comes the Agricultural Infrastructure Fund. He hai kya. Kahi bar as a specific question bhi aata hai, kahi bar basic knowledge vata hooghi, toh use for power. Iske first chapter sa hi aapko bho huch aise cheeze hoon pe clarity ho jahi ki ki aage wale chapter me wohi cheeze zahadha discussed. Okay, so, central sector scheme for financing facility under Agriculture Infrastructure Fund is operational from 2020 onwards. And this is 2022-2032 tuk chalega. Karna ke hai infrastructure at the farm rate. Basically, joh primary level pe processing hooti hai na farm ke anndar. Usko bhahani ke liye hai. Jai se washing hai, chilling hai, toh, ya basic packaging hai. Woh cheeze hai haam farm level pe kar pahay. Karna ke ba hai, kha phund. The scheme shall provide a medium to long term debt financing facility for investment in viable projects. For forced harvest management infrastructure and community farming assets through the interest subvention and financial support credit guarantee. So, agricultural infrastructure fund ke anndar ye ka beha. Ya hai, 1,00,000 rupiah ka fund hai, joh basically banks, financial institutions provide kareenge as loans to primary agricultural credit societies. We have studied state cooperative banks, which is the district, central cooperative banks, and which is the district, central cooperative banks. And which is the fax. Primary agricultural credit society. This is basically society of borrowers and non-borrowers at the village level. What happens to be that the kisans can take a loan from you. You can also take a loan from the bank. You can also take a loan from the bank. And in the government views ke anndar extra money available kera. So, since this is very low interest rate and yet it's an institutional lending, so this way better. Iske waad, marketing cooperative societies, farmer producer organizations, self-help groups, joint liability groups, multi-purpose cooperative societies, agri-entrepreneurs, startups, and central agencies and local bodies, sponsored public private partnership projects, APMC's, Tate agencies, in sub-cove funds, we are going to give a 1 lakh rote privacy. Okay. Federation of FPOs, Federation of SRGs. The fund of Rukwis, 1 lakh rote under the scheme will be dispersed from 2022 to 2025. Support under the scheme will be provided during the duration up to 30 to 30. Now, essentially, these all will take their own project reports and take their business fund. That's how it goes. What will be the benefit from this? What will we do at the ground level? So, financing facilities shall be provided to create modernized post-harvest management infrastructure. You will remember that. You will remember that. But, if you have to learn examples of it, you will remember one or two. Like, cold storage, dry storage, ripening chambers, pack houses, primary processing center, assaying unit, cold chain, supply chain infrastructure, e-marketing, logistics. All the things come to the end. So, it should be something for harvest management. Even remote sensing and IoT-based farming infrastructure. Everything is there. Now, all loan facilities will avail interest subvention of 3% per annum up to a limit of rupees 2 crore. 1 lakh crore rupae ka loan hai. Jho overall diye jayenge. Unmai se her loan ka maximum limit kya set kya hai 2 crore. Juruwi niya ki sabko 2 crore chayye. Khoi 20 lakh, 30 lakh wale bhi hoongay bhoot saare. But maximum limit like a company ko ya a party ko jho diya jayega that is 2 crore. Ab us me 3% agricultural loan jitna bhi hootah na woh 7% pe hootah hai. Us me se 3% minus kar do or to bacha kya 4%. Itne me milega. This subvention will be available for a maximum period of 7 years. Tuh, agar aap usse zyadha lamba loan leetate hain, Tuh, phir aapka subvention qatam pura rate laegga. Credit guarantee coverage will be made available. Thru credit guarantee fund trust for micro and small enterprises. Ye joh fund trust hai, ek transe collateral free loan dene ke liya. Esmei hi kehthi ki MSME ko loan dene banks. Aur guarantee government leega through based on this fund. This was established by SIDBI, Small Industries Development Bank of India. Back in 1990s. So this is for 2 crore loans. The fee for this coverage will be paid by the government, not by the amkisan or the MSRB. So this is for agriculture, infrastructure, industry. It is for AIF three linkages create kar rahe hai. Thik baat hai. Even finance. So yes, that's the main channel. So agriculture, financial institution, infrastructure, industry. It's creating a linkage between all these 4. So as to augment the system which is supportive of the post harvest management. Forward linkages ke inder aip ne AIF ko dalna hai. Jahaan pe infrastructure logistics ya hai pe bhi ap dalna chaathe hai. Vahaan ndal saakta hai. Thik hai, agricultural infrastructure. One of the forward linkages can be that. Ab dhekhi, national beekeeping and honey mission. To those the whole chapters hai na, Bust, wohu pandhi ki wajah hai, yaa se kar lena. First chapter ke inder hi sara kuch aar jata hai. Ab joh oopar AIF ki baat ni gai hai. Fever, kuch le hai what is the progress? Bahi usko le ke hua ke. So progress bhi, inhoon hai apni report ke inder diya. Yahaan se direct data man zhaay ga apko. Hei to apko hampa generalized likhna paadeega. So major project sanctions include warehouses, primary processing units, custom hiring centers, sorting and grading units, cool storage projects, assaying units, and community farming assets. Bas, itna yaad rakho. Numbers yaad rak ne ki zhort nahi. No need to remember pachasati so, fentas so, fich ne chaga. Okay? Siraf kya khiya, kutata hona chay hai. Aur maximum, aar kush yad rak sakte ho, toh kitna investment mobilized hua. So, 31,000 crore rupees were almost spent in the last one year, last financial year. Till, sorry, last financial year, not in last financial year. Those are bees selected. Okay. Now, national beekeeping and honey mission. So, sweet revolution is something that is going on in India right now. And, uh, what is in this? You see, that total budget outlay of 5,000 crore rupees for three years. So, yaabhi khatam ho ga ga na? So, skup per kush nani ka chance wang haiya. So, under Aatam Nirvar Bharat Abhyayan, for overall promotion and development of scientific keeping to achieve the goal of sweet revolution in the country by implementing three mini missions. So, what do we do in the mini missions? Awareness, capacity building, training, focus on women empowerment, through beekeeping, setting up requisite infrastructure. Facilities, integrated beekeeping development centers, disease diagnostic labs, upgradation of honey testing labs, beekeeping equipment manufacturing units. Acha hai, kyunki yeh saare ke basis peh, joh honey ki poori ek industry hai, woh develop hoon. Sastha kaan hai, asani se kar sakti ho. Par based upon quality, jita marzi chau ho, wengha bicho. Next, pradhaan mantri, anndarta, ayes andrakshan yojna. Aasha. E.M. Aasha, what is this? So, investment and price support. These two comments are. Investment support in the sense, agriculture investment India, a lagging issue. So, uske and the government ke dwara investment, by giving money directly in the hands of the farmer. Price support means, that means, that we will sell your product to a particular price. So, if we talk about food grain, to buy that, we got FCI. And to buy Horticals of products, we got Nabard. Is it Nabard or is it anything else? What do you need? For food grain procurement, we got FCI. Yes? Yes sir. Which body procures Horticals of products? It's NAFED. N-A-F-E-D. NAFED. So that is for Horticals. And which organization procures tribal products? So that is tri-fed. P-R-I-F-E-D. Tri-fed. So, this procurement system, is going through. Price support in the actual operation. What do we do now? Comprising price support scheme, price deficiency payment system, and private procurement and stockist scheme. So, these three things in this country, under PM ASHA, ANNA data, AIS and RAKSHAN ABHIHAAN. The farmer income is stable and preserved. Under PM ASHA, States and Union territories are offered to choose from either the price support scheme or PDPers, that is price deficiency payment system. Price support scheme means, that the MSP will be able to sell the grain on MSP. Price deficiency payment system means, MSP and the actual market price on which the grain will be paid. The gap will be able to sell the government to 10% to 10% not more. This was suggested by Nithya Aayog in 2017. Now it is being implemented. So, in a given procurement season with respect to particular oil seed crops for the entire states, the pulses and copra are procured under price support scheme. Only one scheme, only one scheme, PSS or PDPS, is made operational in one state with respect to one commodity. So, a scheme is made possible. Just change the same as one commodity. State have the option to rule out private procurement and stockist scheme. The private sector, if you want to give space for the private sector, then all state will be able to take it properly. On pilot basis in district, selected APMC's of the district involving the participation of private stockists for oil seeds. So, only for oil seeds this is allowed. The brief of PSS, PDPS and PPSS, which is the stockist scheme, what they have in their own, then they have given it here. If you have already read it, you have already read it. So, I don't think you have to read it again. It is like this. The details of the schemes. It is not in the means. In the means, we have to ask the government scheme, the operationalities of the government scheme. Okay? Now, this section also implements the market intervention scheme. For the procurement of agricultural and horticultural commodities, which are perishable in nature, and for which MSP is not notified by the central government. So, MIS works there, such as NAFED, for example. The objective of intervention is to protect the growers of these smallties for making, from making distressed sales. In the event when the, they have a bumper crop, so this is something called as crisis of surplus in agriculture. So, when the agriculture supply line is increased, there is a crisis of surplus, prices fall. And at that time, what will they get the economic cost of recovery? Now, condition for implementation of MIS is that, there should be either at least 10% increase in production, or 10% decrease in ruling market price over the previous normal year. Normal year. Normal year is, for example, the BCR, 2011-12. In the past, or, prices were normal before that. Inflation was not much more, deflation was much more. Now, scheme is implemented at the request of the state or UT government, which is ready to bear 50% of the loss. Then, we implement it. 50% will be entered. Instead of Northean state, 25% loss, 75% will be entered. Okay. Now, the extent of the total amount of loss incurred for the implementation agency is restricted to 25% of the total procurement value, which includes the cost of commodity, procured plus permitted overhead expenses. Implementation agency, like I have already told you, FCI, NAFET, Tracker. If they have a loss to bear, then, maximum 25% loss here. The rest of the government will do the same. Whether it is the central government, or state government. Okay. Then comes agricultural credit. Important topic always. Agricultural credit, right? There are two things. First, it's a business credit card. And, one interest subvention scheme. Basically, if you have interest in the interest, you will see the credit cost. So, government announces, in annual tax, you will see the cost of the government. So, government announces, in annual tax, you will see the cost of the government. So, you will see the cost of the government. You will see the cost of the government. So, government announces, an annual tax, target for agricultural credit, in every budget year. Every year, government has a target announced. Now, the agricultural credit flow target, for 2022, so, ongoing financial year, that has been fixed at, 18,50,000 crore rupees. Okay. So, this is the target. Now, how is it to be given? First is the modified interest subvention scheme. So, department implements this scheme, with the view to provide short term agricultural loan. Short term, what is the cost of the agricultural loan? Less than one year. To farmers, at a concessional rate of interest, under the scheme, farmers are given, upfront interest subvention, of 1.5%, therefore, short term crop loans, over up to 3,00,000, is available to the farmers, engaged in medical center and allied activities, at the interest rate of 7%. Upfront, after giving 7%, it is available to the 7% additional 3% subvention, is also given to the prompt and timely repayment of loan. Thus, the effective rate of interest, come down to 4% per annum. Just, you have to recognize this, that agricultural interest subvention scheme, effective rate of interest, which is the farmers loan, that is 4% per annum. The rest of the means means is not a basic understanding, but we will do a further interest subvention, and we will do that. So, prompt paying farmers, just 3-4% per annum is the effective rate of interest. That much is sufficient. Okay? But, loan's limit is 3,00,000. Next is the cattle credit card. Do you know what cattle do? Yes. They don't have to do cattle, but they have to be cattle credit card. or trade, they have to buy their capital. So, they will keep their capital and keep their capital. What will they do? These 3,00,000, they will get 4% rate of interest. The rate of interest is the FD of interest is the 1.5%. The FD rate of interest is the 1.5%. The 1.5% rate of interest is the 1.5% rate of interest. That'll open too. It'll be better and the 3.5%, what will it be directly that? To fund it. Resource well. She won't buy the health by paying, but the bank, she won't buy the 3.5% rate of interest. See. Well, by doghouse so you can see interest income so nine lakhs 3.5 percent what is the 3.5 percent of nine lakh hello approximately 30,000 okay this is free money we get to the commission for agricultural cost and prices what is the work of this as per the agricultural pricing policy 23 crops on the top of the 23 crops they have MSP so 22 crops we have food and we have there is fair and remunerative price for sugar okay okay so seven cereal crops five pulses seven oil seeds cupra cotton raw jute etc so taste crop byes plus sugarcane now CAP CP it submits its report to government in the form of price policy reports every year separately for five groups of commodities so you don't need to remember their names Kharifrabhi, Sugarcane, Raw Jute and Cupra before preparing these five so sub ke views he will let Kharif abhi skipper final decision kong later who takes the final decision because this is just a recommendation so cabinet committee on economic affairs and even UPSC question even now determinants of MSP what leads to the calculation is joh apne pehle pada A2 plus FL into 1.5 this is the formula standardized 2011 this finishes your first chapter bhoat sare joh aap points who you see mil jayenge jitne hum nne mark kye hai is kiske basis pere aap sufficient answer writing kar pang ghe kithar utar se check khe pere bhi a functional and organizational structure so yye hum ministry kye chapter nahin pardna aagye bha jayye directorate of economics and statistics nahin chahiye aagye bha jayye bha bha kye kye sall raha directorate kis tdha sse calculate kata usko unki koon koon sse divisions hain bha move forward don't be attracted by the images also national e governance plan in agriculture sse e sse kya o par stand alone question a sse particular topic okay so what is this how is it working how is it helping farmers in inclusive growth a sse question I okay so ministry of agriculture and farmer welfare aims to improve awareness knowledge and efficiency of farmers never agricultural extension ki baat kareten kis kis anu ko jag rup karne ki baat kareten awareness knowledge efficiency so this is why sse sari ict or yasab hum karne ki go shish karne now under this what is this national e-governance plan for agriculture so aim to achieve rapid development in india through the use of information and communication technology for timely access to agriculture related information for farmers in agriculture availability of real-time information at the right time is a continuous challenge lack of information at the proper time causes losses to farmers अगर किसानों ऐ Guru अज about इंवी ये बारिष बहुत जबरदस्दाने वाली है카 गड़ी कर्री कर Tucci מצ parte about 22 so they are the one who are either most hurt or most profited yes yes session is in library so you cannot speak much you can only type okay so now any gpa aims to bridge the gap between uh you know whatever information gap is there real-time information gap by using technology so abhi kaha kaha pence settle where it is in seven selected states namely assam himachal pradesh jharkhand karnataka kerala mp and maharashtra in the last quarter of 2010-11 so waha phe shruvati dor mein launch kaya gaya tha abhi toh pan india chal raha all states and duties from 2000 14-15 so that is where abh isse a gaya raya realizing the significance of new digital and emerging technologies the committee on doubling farmer income has recommended further expanding and augmenting the digital agriculture initiative for the government of india so kya karna chahte hain based upon remote sensing geographical information system data analytics cloud computing ai machine learning iot robotics drone sensors blockchain jahaan pe aapko na yeh bhi standard word is again the potato e-governance technology india garrai abhi proses of outbreak did you apply this entire set on your knowledge character Now we again used it again So how much time did it not required So this is usually basic mobile television So since the penetration of smartphone with an internet in rural India is only around 18%, mobile telephony is considered to be the alternate and best option. So mobile telephony has transformed the tenor of our lives. The department has developed a portal MKSAN. So mksan.gov.in, where around 5.3 crore farmers have registered and experts, scientists of different departments. So they are interacting and sending information to farmers in 12 local languages on regular basis. So basic phone can be found on all the information. So weather information, rainfall, temperature. So we know that. Then seed, which variety is coming. Time of sowing, harvesting. So every information is given through basic telephone, not the smartphone. Message as a message. Once you register. With market information, farmers are better informed to self-produce. So even market information. Revailing market prices. Quantity demanded in the market. How much is in the market? So it's running in the market. It's running in the market. Helps in reducing distress sales. So more than 2,462 crore SMS have been sent since 2013. So sufficient message being sent. There are 24 crore agricultural families in India. So for example, a few months of service. Get out of that store, society needed in니까 it'll happen anytime. Dawn of St. All month thanks to Planet for the Mercantile. We're reflecting on it while the 이거 is getting sent from tree to tree. We should send? Looks like a couple of messages. Welcome back to the bank and for the market in� 항상 friends and friends. In a couple of months, precious dois intersections. When you consider the market in the market, there's areich Stories that will receive yourwa weather information. Then farmers portal. This is another e-technology in aid of farmers. So this is a one-stop shop for farmers where farmers can get relevant information on range of topics. Seed, fertilizer, pesticide, credit, good practices, dealer network, availability of inputs, agro-met advisory. Agro-met means agricultural metrological information. This information can be drilled down through pictorial view of the map of India. So you can see in your district, in your city. And this is a centralized repository. It's the backbone of all mobile apps and SMS advisories. So all the information is going on here. So let's keep this. Farmers portal. Next. Development of mobile apps. It's a different mobile apps. It's called Kisan Suvidha. So it's a platform independent as well as available on Google Play Store. All the services information relevant to farmers are linked here as a common platform. So you need to have information about any scheme. It's called Kisan Suvidha. It's called Kisan Suvidha. Now users can just visit the Kisan Suvidha website also in multiple languages in case they want it. Some of the services, sub-services, which you can find in your area. PM Kisan scheme. Then fertilizer. Kisan Rath. This is also new. This is a transport service provider in your area, which will be green. Then farm machinery. Seeds. Soil health card. Agriculture marketing and procurement. Crop insurance. Organic farming. Regional council. Soil. Soil. Soil. Soil. Soil. Soil. Soil. Soil. Soil. Soil. Soil. Soil. That's another technology for. Pharmacy. The new application development in 2021. The latest. The latest. The new. The fact that we saw. The government. The level. This is a two. The thing. The seed. Exim portal. Export. The. Exim portal. Export. Import. Seed. Now. Scheme. On boarded for. Direct benefit transfer. Agriculture. Conco. Scheme. On boarded for. Direct benefit transfer. Agriculture. Conco. Scheme. Where. Benefit transfer. So. A list. Just give it one. Don't bother to. Cram it. Okay. Simple. Here. The. Agriculture. Ministry of Agriculture. And Farmer. Welfare. Then there is. AgriStack. So. This project is an. Ambitious digital. Agricultural initiative. By the department of. Agriculture and Farmer. Welfare. It is a collection of. Database. Registries. Framework. Standards. Data schema. APIs. IT system. Open data. Related to agriculture. Through interoperable. Systems of development. Of innovative. Services and solutions. By the government entities. In private sector. In private sector. In public sector. In land record. In geolocation. In crop. Any and every information. Is there on. AgriStack. Okay. So. It is being built on. Open standards. With. Federated architecture. Ensuring. Participatory. Inclusive design. To ensure. Agriculture. Agriculture. In. AgriStack. In. AgriStack. Infer lighting. to ensure agriculture sector evolves collectively with the help of specialized line ministries. Like the infrastructure of the infrastructure, you heard PM Gati Shakti. In the agriculture sector, all the ministries, departments, private sector players are doing everything. So it evolves collectively with the help of specialized line machinery, states, private agricultural tech players. It will at its core respect and enable data privacy based on the principles of data empowerment and protection architectures. Accordingly, all personal data belonging to farmers will be collected with purpose limitation, shared only with farmers consent and only with authorized data seekers. So it is akin to Adhar is envisioned to be core data infrastructure for agriculture. Everything. Digitally enable better public and private ecosystems for service delivery across agricultural value chains. Today, we have many value chains. We can't do that because of lack or infrastructure. For example, if I know that in a particular district, I have a particular kind of seed is being grown for… or meat or anything then i also know that this thing is needed to be this fertilizer this pesticide and irrigation equipment and credit schemes all the ministries who are working in different departments or private playersiciary weakest links thank you your Okay. As a digital public good, AgriStart will help improve efficiencies and cost for state and central governments, private companies to provide services in agriculture by making high quality verified current data available to them. In its initial version, it will comprise of the following four components at the center. What will happen? Farmer registry, ministry registry, so all of them register. Then, UFSI protocols. Basically, how will you use this information? Then, consent manager and then protocols L1. Next level. Then, sandbox, basically they do trials. What product is it? Startups, they will try in sandbox. Then, AgriData exchange. So, if someone has provided that data, then it will make a government ecosystem. It will be made accordingly. Private sector, international participants, startups, government, all of them will be available. The government ecosystem is that the different departments will be able to take that data. That's why we have to work. That's why we have to work. That's why we have to work. Now, what are we doing? What are we doing? We have to work. We have to work. That's why we have to work. The farmers' A lot of agencies, ministries, departments, I don't know. But, there was no one integrated. After that, it will be integrated. After that, it will be integrated. I will give you some examples. The irrigation subject is the state subject. The state departments are the different departments. Okay? So, if you take a fertilizer, the fertilizer in the central government is the different departments involved. The manufacturing and quality control are the same. The seed is the national seed act. We have to work accordingly. The inspection, auditing, all of the departments are the same. If you take a land, the land system, land revenue, land records etc. The state government is the same. The departments are the same. If you take a labor, the agriculture department is the same. Then, if you look at the overall ecosystem, the agriculture price marketing committees, the state is different. The centralization of the E-NAM is the same. The Ministry of Agriculture is the same. The Ministry of Rural Development is the same. The Agriculture of Arbor and Arbor and Arbor are the same. The two different work. The other departments are the same. The other departments are the same. The state level are the same. The agricultural departments are the same. Okay? Then, the pollution control, the NGT, the state pollution control board, the other organizations are the same. So many are there, trying to work at the rural end, but not actually being able to work much. The firepower mantra is the same. It is also the same. It's all in the same lines. It's all in the same lines. It's all in the same lines. Okay? So, this will evolve over time. Now, we've set the building blocks. Let's see how it really operates. So, initially, they had some building blocks, farmer registers, they say, they worked out. There are geo-referenced village maps. You can only remember the highlights. You don't need to remember the data. Farmer registry means farmers should register and their data should be there. Then geo-referenced village maps means So, we have data on our own map, satellite-based, that is where the field is, where the crops are going. Like this. Then, crops zone registry. So, in India, where the crops are going. What is the cropping pattern? That is all the things here. Unified farmer service interface. Farmers. So, you are not audible. Please confirm audio. Is it clear? Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. So, you just remember the headings that what is the actual deliverables in AgriStack? Basically, the same thing. AgriStack Sandbox. What is the basic concern of the Sandbox? Where you have to experiment. New applications develop. So, you can see them. How do you do it? Like this. Okay. Consent manager. You want to share your information. Like this. There is also a way. Agricultural data exchange. With private companies, international companies, government. Then, AgriStack. A different website. Okay. So, the basics. Building reference applications for states. Create other support registries in AgriStack. These are the next steps. Now, there is no doubt about them. Now, various use cases envisioned to be enabled by AgriStack include Kisan credit cards saturation. So, basically, I know that KCC use is how to use. More streamlined delivery of various services like central government or multi schemes and so on. Enablement and delivery of right advisory at right time. So, basically, the information that Kisan has been in different areas available to be available to be used. Now, the information that Kisan has been available to be used in AgriStack. So, the information that Kisan has been available in AgriStack is available in AgriStack. So, basically, The information that the farmers have been available in different areas, now one place will get. Agri stack. Okay. Next is mission for integrated development of horticulture. Very important. I think why is it worth taking attention to a screen? I will tell you a basic workout in the basis. Horticulture is high value crops. HVC. I have already discussed the discussion with India. So, India has 19% of land on high value crops. And in our GVA, the agricultural GVA, the contribution of its contribution is 41%. And it is normal crops, like food grains. So, 41% land is under food crops. And those food crops GVA, which is our, is about 19%. This way, we have two numbers and clarity. We have to make this thing. And this is the understanding of doubling farmer income. We have to make this mission for integrated development of horticulture. We have to make this mission for the Horticulture mission. It is not new. It is the central sponsored workout. Okay. Now, in its' entire scheme, there are many schemes. There are five schemes. National Horticulture Mission. Horticulture Mission for North East and Himalayan states. Horticulture Board. Coconut Development Board. Central Institute for Horticulture. This is the central institute for Horticulture. But the components of this component. We have to make this mission. Come to this. Under MIDH, Government of India contributes 60% states contribute. The rest 40%. The North Eastern states are always kept in special category. So, the Himalayan states and North Eastern states 90% central government contribute. and the government contributes 10% to the government. Now, let's leave it. Now, the sub-missions are the national horticulture mission. The national horticulture mission is the same. The tension is not in them. Come to this. It's going to be. Okay. The question is here. What is the progress? So, at the physical level, what is the progress? Area expansion. How much has the area expansion in horticulture? As of 31st December 2022, 70417 hectares are under horticulture in India. Take care. Come to next. Financial progress. So, funds of the tune 516.18 crore rupees have been released implementing the national horticulture missions against the revised estimate of 820.3 crore. So, basically, the fund used. 500 crore. Remember to keep it. What is the area of production productivity? What is the area of production productivity? What was the question in the 2011 means under the national horticulture mission? Okay. So, if you look at the latest figures. And you see the area of fruits, vegetables, flowers, aromatic and medicinal crops, production, and productivity. Exactly. Exactly. Question. What is the area of production? You have to do it. But you have to remember the total. Plantation crops, spices, others. So, remember the figures. Okay. Only those are 22. So, if you look at the level of productivity, 12.2 is the productivity. That is metric ton per hectare. Production is 1000 metric tons level. So, that is this one. Okay. Then, if you look at the area under cultivation. So, that is this one. How many hectares? Okay. So, 1000 hectares in the form. So, this is the 3 zeros. So, this is the 3 zeros extra. So, just remember this one. And, let's see one trend. What is the note? This is also increasing. This is also increasing. And this is also increasing continuously. Almost. Yes. So, let's say that there is a continuous increase in the area production and productivity of horticultural crops under the national horticultural mission. Okay. With productivity increasing to 12.2 metric ton per hectare. You can keep it so much. So, I say that these figures are a little bit. Remember. Remember. Remember. So, you can remember just like this. 30 lakh, 34 lakh like this. So, that way if you remember it still good. Otherwise, it is not a problem with 12.2 metric ton per hectare productivity. You can do it. You can do it. Now, let's see. Okay. The wide and varied nature of horticulture sector covering fruits, vegetables, root and tuber crops, flower, aromatics. Those are all things. Besides opportunities for diversification in agriculture. So, this will be better returns per unit area. So, this will be better returns per unit area. Plus diversification of agriculture. Two things. Now, this figure is very important. Now, horticulture crops cover 28.08 million hectares at present. Resisted increase of 20.8% as compared to 2011-2012. So, what's better in this year? With a production of about 342 million tons, horticulture production has witnessed an increase of 33% in the last 10 years. So, if it is increased, it will be better. Area 20% increase. Production 33% increase. And productivity 10.12% increase in productivity. Exactly this has been asked to your UPSC question. Let me show you how it was asked. National horticulture mission. And then people think, where is this question? So easy. Help me find out the question. Here. Assess the role of national horticulture mission in boosting production, productivity and income of horticulture farmers. How far has it succeeded in increasing the income of the farmers? Direct question has happened to our number. The data is published on the page. You can ask again. You can ask again. You can ask a little salt. You can ask again, you can ask again. You can ask again. Look at food processing. Look at where. Every time you ask. Every time you ask questions. Okay? Okay. Now. Jews don't need to be able to support the fruit crops. Fruit crops. This is not something. Don't bother. Just enough. I have a mark on these. This is not sufficient. Go ahead. Do you want to go? What has the benefit of the vegetable crops? Don't bother. What has the benefit in the north-east? What has the better for the animals? Don't bother. What has the better for the animals? What has the better for the animals? Don't bother. Okay. Horticulture Board, leave all these, not all these. Move forward. Come to this. New initiatives. The following new initiatives were taken by the National Horticulture Board during the year under report. That is, those are 22 things. Horticulture cluster development program. This is the vision of Abdul Klam. Cluster development program in agriculture. To address the challenges and enhance the global competitiveness of Indian horticulture sector, the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmer, Welfare, Government of India launched the Central Sector Program, namely Cluster Development Program in 2021, implemented by the National Horticulture Board. What is the holistic growth and development of identified horticultural clusters? In some villages, some particular, let's say, we have to build a rose. We will build it. It's like this. We will build it. That is the cluster development. What will we do? So, designed to leverage the geographical specialization of horticulture clusters and promote integrated and market-led development of pre-production, production, post-harvest, logistics, branding, marketing, activities. Like Ajmer, Roos. Now, in all stages, we have to build it. Backward linkages and forward linkages. We have developed. We have developed. We have to build it as much as we have to build forward and backward linkages. We have to build it as same meaning. Okay? Upstream and downstream, we have to build it as same meaning. Like this. So, what is being done here? The Ministry of Agriculture, Farmer Welfare identified 55 horticultural clusters and assumed that after successful implementation in all clusters, overall impact will benefit 1 million farmers and investment of about 10,000 crores and increase of exports of targeted crop by 20%. It is just so much. Horticulture cluster development program. Finished. Come forward. National Nursery Portal. So, inadequate availability of quality planting material is one of the primary reasons for low productivity of various horticultural crops in India. So, in national level, in nurseries, the quality planting material is going to be insurance. In terms of the importance of the development of the plant, they are trying to build it. Okay? Now, this has also been developed in important regional languages. These are very different. When you are online, you are building something. Offline, you are building something. You are building something with regional languages. You are not using the same language as well. Because you don't have to write more than English and not English. Okay? So, apart from the English and Hindi versions. So, apart from this, mobile apps of national nursery portal for registered buyers and nursery, both in Android and iOS platform have been launched. Okay? So, those are the first ones. These are also the national nursery portals. So, as per demand, use when productive is going to be. Coconut development board is going to be. Financial progress is going to be. All that, just move on. Not required. Post-service management, no need. Walk further. I have read this report two times. I have read it. I have read it. I have read it. I am read it. I am reading it. Okay? So, there are so many things, I am talking about the time-based. I am reading it. I am not reading it. Okay? So, I am leaving it. All this, I am leaving it. Not required at all. So, I am leaving it. And I am leaving it. Not required at all. Sector-wise programs are not written, not what happened in Odessa, what happened in Karnataka, not required for us. Come to this. National beekeeping mission. This is what you have read on the top of the beekeeping. It is just so many. There will be one or two things. There will be an add-on here. So, what is beekeeping type? If you have a question, you have to read it. So, what is this? This is agro-based activity, which is being undertaken by farmers, landless laborers, as a part of integrated farming system. Instead of crops, livestock, animal health, and fisheries, it is also going to be in the same way. So, it has been useful in pollination of crops, thereby increasing income of farmers, beekeepers, by way of increasing crop yield and providing honey. Diversified agro-climatic conditions provide great potential for beekeeping and export of honey also. So, this is the generalistic part, which means you need to be in the same way. After that, the statistics are the ones you have put in the first. The three-year-old mission is a part of the sweeper revolution. But it is just so much. It is too far. Too far. How much honey has become now, what has happened, don't bother about it. Not required. We will use this as an example. If there is a direct question, so you will be able to write a lot. So, these are all going to come. You might have seen this, that it was a large report. What is it? What is it? Okay. Okay. So, the national food security mission. So, this was started in 2007-08, to increase the production of rice, meat and pulses, by 10, 8 and 2 million tons, respectively by the end of 11th five-year plan, through area expansion and productivity enhancement, restoring the soil fertility, productivity, creating employment opportunities and enhancing farm-level economy. Now, the mission was continued during the 12th plan. And now our targets were revised. So, we wanted 25 million tons of food grain, comprising of 10 million tons of rice, 8 million tons of wheat and 4 million tons of pulses, and 3 million tons of core cereal by the end of 12th plan. Beyond the 12th plan, now the five-year plan was gone. So, we will now be in 2010-2012, and now the targets are still running. So, in 2022-2012, the targets are still running. So, in 2022-2012, the targets are still running. 1.7 million tons, 1 million tons, and so on. The targets are only higher. The targets are only higher. Now they just keep doing the targets ?". Why can we do that for price and large? See, this targets are still rising and free reach between? This targets are less, and less important. That strikes them as we've used to increase, increase the production of rice, wheat and pulses. Forget about your targets. this first forget about targets ticket or eight pieces we add through how do we do area expansion productivity enhancement restoring soil fertility and productivity creating employment opportunities and enhancing the farm level economy this is again uh in rishiv's vocabulary potato of things so it's not information is finished currently it is being implemented into 28 states to uts of jnk and larda ticket nfsm rice on constant state so recommended agronomic practices have been encouraged through various demonstrations of rice meat pulses and nutricum poor cereal in 7.86 lakh hectares so good amount of area that has been covered here number b b 786 yaal rakhna asan thik hai new initiatives kya hai so breeder seed product production of pulses was introduced under nfsm pulses program 150 seed hubs were created then supply of seed mini kits of pulses not older than 10 years free of cost 100 share method center government then state governments the icar krishivigyan kender saus so state agriculture universities are involved in conducting demonstration on improved latest package of practices of pulses so pulses are a major trouble in india import karni pate kei otherwise 15 percent allocation is earmarked for nfsm pulses so quality seeds the government created a buffer stock of pulses to control fluctuation in the prices of pulses so under nfsm 370 districts have been identified for promotion of pulses tour nasur and urud during 2023 new initiatives for new initiatives for nutris so breeder seed production certification certified seed production seed mini kits you can see all this all this is all this is all this is all this is all so katha bhi likh doke too chalai ga pulses or nutris serials chayai chote points uathane to here so you can take one thing to take two minutes and international year of millets 2023 this year this year this year this year so we have every place in india promote kareha bhi usb get to millet was one of the part of the entire setting you know what to eat prime minister or we are so realizing the health minutes of benefits of millets versus gluten-free low fat low carbohydrate the effort has been made to increase production productivity and income of millet growers under various schemes of central and state so this is one kya kareham in order to encourage the production and consumption of millets the government of india notified nutris cereals in april 2018 including jwar arr тради you have seen in the budget for this workout. Kodo millet, Banyard millet, Little millet and two pseudo-millets that is buckwheat and Amardhus. So these are all the millets. The amount of names that you have to remember, the other ones you have to remember, others, etc. You can write it on your work. Now, to create domestic and global demand, to provide nutritional crops, nutritional food to people, Government of India has proposed to the UN for declaring 2023 as the International Year of Millets. So the proposal is supported by 72 countries and it is already on. So, in 2011, it was declared that in 2013, it will be the International Year of Millets. The UN General Assembly declared it as 2023 as International Year of Millets on 5th March 2021. Moving forward, what is going on? Towards declaration, UNGA aims to elevate the awareness of Nutriserials. Just. It will be the awareness generation. And extension. So what is the knowledge? And to inspire stakeholders. Awareness, extension, inspiration. Just. It's just that. The UN General Assembly is not doing anything in this. Okay. That will be the state government and national government. So, the UN General Assembly has been working in this. Now, the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare is the Nordal Ministry of Government of India. So as to do multi-stakeholder engagement approach to achieve the objectives of International Year of Millets, of millets and positioning India as a global hub for millets. So that is what we are trying to do. We will promote all the ambassadors worldwide. Okay. So move on. Now we have two ministries, agriculture and external. They started something called as luncheon with foreign ambassadors and of various countries. What they are trying to do? Millet-based meals serve them. Okay. Then on 6th December 2022, FAO of the UN organized an opening ceremony of the International Year of Millets in 2023 at Rome, Italy. So there are also a lot of coverage for International Year of Millets, India and Millets. So many programs, functions, etc. going on for millets. Recipes are shared. Okay. Okay. So, So, So, So far, so good. So far, so good. That's enough information. This is why you aresen. Thank you. Okay. Okay. Targeting rice followers, don't bother. Don't bother. Then NFSM and National Mission for Edible Oils and Oil Palm. The National Food Security Mission part is important. Oil seeds need basic information. It is a major import commodity. So, there is information. India is heavily dependent upon imports to meet its edible oil requirements and is the largest importer of vegetable oil in the world, followed by China and USA. Third largest. Your first largest. First largest. Your second number is China. Third is USA. So, of all the imported edible oils, the share of palm oil is about 57%. Soybean oil, 29%. And sunflower oil is 14%. In any way, no one is a healthy manufacturer. Farm oil is mostly used in cosmetics, refined oils and other things. Even nuclear. Soybean soybean as it is cultivated to make pigs fat. Soybean soybean co-inventus level. Pigs fat. Why did they do it in livestock? They made meat from the ram. It was more lucrative business. Meat industry. So, this is the work. So, the oil extracts from soy bean. Now, when we extract some seed or beans, when we extract oil from oil, beans are still okay. But when we extract oil from seed, when we extract oil from oil from oil, when we extract oil from oil from oil, when we extract oil from oil from oil, cold-pressed is still healthy. Hot pressed is generally used in industry. That changes the structure of the fat in a way, in a way which becomes unhealthy for you. It becomes cancerous in some areas. So, that is bad for you. Okay. So, import growth in, which fat comes to get used? Do you know? Do you know? wirelessне management, what is this 장miserabyte, compares to its socioami Jeffrey? There are noacements. Limited food is over all the footuitenes have any used, because energy effective and health capabilities. We also encourage energy patterns for Athena purposes. Money salesrell is a medium oversight. oscar data consumption is around 19 kg per year per person so now we have to import a lot of oil import growth in respect of edible oil during the last decade is about 17.4 percent so the import figures of the edible oil during 2021 repeat reveal at a total of 14.19 million tons of vegetable oil costing rupees 156 800 crore and the per capita consumption was 15.8 kg per person per annum so 2012 pira metha abhi kitna hogay 19.7 kg per person per annum so kaafi da da consumption but domestic edible oil production kitna is 11.57 million tons demand kitana peri peri 14.9 million tons so beach ka johai hama import kareme siqli 14.9 million tons is what we are important okay our production kaha seo primary or oil seeds and secondary sources like coconut oil palm rice or cotton seed or tbos so anyhow import percentage of total domestic demand now you look at it over a period of time definitely decrease to hai 63 se almost 55 percent of it a guy okay but still issue to hai domestic availability abhi bhi kam hai demand bhai oui bhai demand bhai di jari hai 25 million ton ke aas-paas ki demand to philhaal hai chahi jitna bhi healthy lifestyle hama promote kareh hai but still there is a concern okay oil seed production may be similar sa issue hai abe dekhi edible oil production hai to oil seeds se hi aage drive over now oil seed cultivation across country is about 29.17 million hectare in the region. Largely in the rain-fed area, covering 72% and producing around 37.7 million tons of oil seeds. Nine oil seeds are the major source of vegetable oil in the country. Among them, soya bean, rape seed mustard, ground nut. They are contributing 92% of the oil seed production in the country. Three states. Rajasthan, MP, Gujarat and Maharashtra. 4 states, 77% of oil seed production in the country is happening. But in this way, our import dependence is also very high. Our yield is increased by kg per hectare, but it is still still in 1292. I see, it is not advanced. Production is 37, area. It is not a figure. Okay. Now, which scheme should be? First is NFSM, oil seed and oil palm. So, 2018-19 scheme should be. We are trying to promote more area under cultivation, trying to improve productivity. That's the focus. Okay. That's the focus. Okay. That's the focus. We are trying to provide you. We are trying to provide you. We are trying to provide you green sub-schemes or submissions. Oil seed, oil palm and TBOs. Scheme is being implemented through state departments of agriculture and horticulture in 25 states and Yote. So, not all India because there is no other areas. 60-40, 90-10 ratio. 90-10 is for the Northeast. So, what they are trying to do is provide you credit, provide you seeds and everything that you need. Input availability is being implemented. Okay. Don't bother. Come to the strategies for oil seed production. So, enhancing productivity of oil seed production. Systems are prepared for oil seed in the country. Interventions. What are the interventions? Look at institutional support and handholding. Standard. So, what are the strategies for oil? And there are the categories. First is area expansion and productivity increase. Seed production increase. It's the distribution better. Low cost technologies. Productivity, income. Technologies with high impact that have high return on investment. high input use efficiency. Then leveraging technologies. Skill and entrepreneurship development. Increase in additional area and production of oil seed through rice follow, intercropping and crop diversification. Now, if you note this in general, which are used in all areas, which are cities and kurt Abigail ocлу, directly. reach pmlogue income. Chinese, referring to reflected. default area seems technology bringlim area cleaning guided will them Now, what did you do and what did you do? Don't worry. What are major intervention targets? Don't worry. What did you do in NFSM? One by one. It should be general. Two for all. This doesn't exist. Three-born oil seeds. For example, it's olive oil. Wild apricots, jujuba, neem. All of these are also made of oil. We're also trying to do it here, but in India, this is not a lot of progressive. Three-born oil. Oil palm, but don't need to work out. Only oil seed. National machine oil seed. Move forward. All this is not required. Now, National Mission on Sustainable Agriculture and Pradhanaminti, you will know. Next is this one. Here we will continue. And all these facts have already been written. Now, the first logic that you've made for agriculture, the handouts that you've created, add on it. So, this is good enough for today. Tomorrow, we'll continue. With this document. When we get finished with this document, then we'll go into the question-asarpa. Any doubts if you have throughout the reading, please do ask.