Sustainable Soil Management - Basic Techniques to Improve the Quality of your Soil's Health
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qamgsE2Rp0o
Education
 Let's talk about briefly about the history of soil science. So soil science, modern soil science begins around the 1880s in Western Europe and Russia, the old empire of Russia, right? So in Western Europe, the approach of those of this kind of science were more at the laboratory levels where they start to make some tests in the chemistry of soils, because some of the soils in these countries of Western Europe was kind of degraded and they were having some challenge to keep producing food to supply to their populations. But at the same time, in the old empire of Russia, it begins with a field level approach, as well as the United States lately. So in the first decade of the 20th century, after around four international scientific meetings, it's where the soil science got formalized, you know? And it was, by this time, it was founded, the International Soil Science Society in Rome, in Italy. The first meeting of those was in Stockholm. And then they moved to other countries of Europe. And because of the first World War II, they have some delays. But in the 20s, the soil science were get formalized. And it is when they emulate to the United States, right? So around 1924, so the soil science, we can say it is a really new science, because formally, the science just has been developing for less than 100 years. Okay? So the father of this science, it's known as the father of the science, is this guy in the next slide in the picture. So this guy, the name is Basil Dukashev. And Dukashev was an erosion scientific, soil scientific. He is known as the father of soil science. So after this, soil science was really developed in the United States of America by a guy named, the last name of this guy was, let me, okay, Marsbot. Marsbot, what he's done is it is that he translated from the erosion to the English, the work of Dukashev and some of his students. And after this, soil science got really serious on the United States. So for this reason, many of the language in soil science that we use around the world and the taxonomic system that many countries use is the one that was developed by the United States of America, especially by what the agency we know today as Natural Resources Conservation Service or NRCS. It is an agency from the USDA. So this is a little bit brief of the history. So let's get talking about what is soil? What is real soil? So, okay. So the soil. So when we talk about the soil sometimes, we just think, as I said a few moments ago, just about the dirt. Other people think on soil, relate soil because of the forest and other natural ecosystems. In our case, that many of us are linked to the flood production or farming. So we think the soil in this way, but soil is much more than this. So other things that we extract from soil are the minery resources, right? So as we can see in the next slide. There is a mine in soil that we extract. So many of the minerals that we use in many of the gadgets we use daily as, you know, our cell phones, a lot of other things, right? And the soil, it is the foundation or for building sites, right? So the civil engineers look the soil for the strength and the capacity hole structures. Differently from the agronomists or the soil scientists. Soil scientists also are known as etaphologists or pedologists are the same things. They are soil scientists, right? And for the agricultural purposes, as we're going to be talking about now. So for the agricultural purposes, what we study about the soil are the first two meters or the first six and a half feet. So that's the area that the etaphologists or pedologists or soil scientists make their research to determine the capacity of the soil for farming and hold an agricultural operation. Okay? So, by the way, feel free to make any question at the bottom of your screen. You will be seeing the Q&A icon. So just push there and use this chat for any question that you have. Okay? So, in which way we define soil? Soil is a natural body comprised of solids. Solids are mineral and organic matter. We will be talking in a little while about this. Liquid gases that occur on the land surface. Occupies space and characterized by one or both of the following. Horizons or layers that are distinguishable from the initial material as a result of addition, losses, transfers, and transformations of energy and matter. Or the ability to support rooted plants in the natural environment. This is the definition that NRCS used. But as a funny fact for us, in some way, up to date, the soil scientists keep having some discussion about to adopt an official soil definition. But for our purpose, we will be using the USC NRCS definition. Okay? So, I know it is a lot of technical terms in that definitions. But we will break down each of them in the next slides. When we are studying the soil for farming purposes, this first two meters or 6.5 feet, when we make this cut to study this, it is named or known as a soil profile. And what is a soil profile are the layers that appear within this dip in the soil. So, in ideal soil, we're going to find around four layers. And in the very bottom, we will find the bedrock or the mother rock, as some people call it. Okay? So, the first, and we make the differentiation of each layer or horizon of the soil because of its texture, the color, the presence of the roots, the presence of some soil-leaving animals, and things like this. Okay? Okay? That's the reason. That's the layer are formed. But as you can see, not all the soil, as you will see in the next slides, not all the soils look like this one. It is, you know, this is an ideal soil, like the one in the next slide that you can see it. So, Pam, please switch from the slide and see this model of soils that we got there. Yeah, there you can see a profile of soil. This one, it is not six to meters deep, but it's around five, if I remember well. There, you can see the different layers of the soils. At the top of the soil, the top soil, that's its name, the horizon A. Then we have the horizon B, then the C, and then we have the bedrock or the R horizon. It's named too. But not all the soils look like this. So, let's see the next pictures that you can see what kind of, you know, funky the soil can have sometimes. So, in the, at your left side of the screen, at the upper, in the upper picture, it is a soil that is not so deep that you can find this material, parental material or rock, within the first 12 or 30 centimeters of the, 12 inches or 30 centimeters of the soil. And it is commonly happening. And I know we have some, some guests from Bahamas and up to I know and what I can see about the soils in Bahamas, that tends to happen there. So, at the bottom part of your, of the left part of your screen, you can see a soil that looks like, you know, like paint or something like this looks really pretty, right? But you have the horizon mixes along the profile of the soils and that will happen too. It is normal. And the big picture at the right part of the slide, you can see a soil that don't have many differentiation within the six, the first six feet, feet of depth, right? Of the soil profile. So, there are many, many soils that are really, really deep and no matter how deep you go, you probably don't see many differentiation within this. But those tends to happen more in plain areas with many, many years of developing of that soil, okay? So, it is just for you to have an idea of what is, of how soil profile looks, okay? So, there are plenty of, of different kinds of soils that you will see it in this presentation too. So, the soil, it is a really, really important thing for us, okay? So, some of the functions of the soils are the foundations for building. It's, they, they regulate the flow, the cycle of, of nutrients. They provide us with some of our pharmaceutical and, and medicine materials as, you know, as the penicilline that it's produced by a soil-borne fungus, right? So, the soil provides a lot of, a lot of services. And when I'm talking about the soil, I, I just say a few things to the people to understand. So, you know, in the, in the Genesis, in the Christian Bible, so the, the, they are, they are the story that the God takes a bunch of clay and mold the Adam, right? So, what is belief is that, that this story has the roots in the Asian beliefs in other cultures that they see, saw the, the, the, the soil and the sun as the mother and fathers of the creations. And the name Adam, it's really, really, really alike of the Hebrew word for soil, okay? So, that's, that's some of the, of the, of, of the factors in the human history about the importance of the soil. So, I think we have a kind of problem with the presentation, sorry. Okay, there we go. So, but for the purposes of agriculture and our daily life and environment, some of the soil ecological services are that the soil keep the water and the air clean. I'm not meaning that any of those resources are, have more importance one or from the other, but, but the soil plays a key role to maintaining the water and the air clean. Okay, so, it provides space for forest, wetlands and other ecosystem, found and flora diversity, a quarter of the found and flora diversity of the, of biodiversity of the words. It's on, so it is on the soil, right? And what is really important for us, it's provides farmlands, right? Without this, we can, we, we can survive, you know. Okay, so let's see other, other things about the soil science basics. Okay, well, if, as you see here at the left picture, it is a picture of bare soil eroded by wind. And this caused this kind of dust storms. Or if you look back in the history of the, for example, the United States of America, it was really common when the western part of the, of the, of the country was getting explode, that happens that those boats, right? And those are storms of, of, of soils that happen in continental areas. So, the quality of air, it's really affected by the, the diminishing of the soil, right? So, in other parts, other thing that for water quality are when we have some erosion of the soils and runoff water that brings sediments to the, to the body of, of waters. And sometimes, or major part of the times, those sediments are loaded with nutrients, which cause a blooms of micro algaes and other, and other aquatic plants that cause a lack of oxygen in the water, bringing down the quality of water. And sometimes, they affect, really affect our daily life, because if this is your fan of water from consumption, so it can have a really, really big problems, right? At the same, we need to remember, no matter where you are, how far from the coast you are, everything that you do with your soils will, in some way or another, will affect the ocean ecosystems, especially when we are on the island. So, we are very, very prone to affect the, for some example, the ecosystem of the coral reefs, okay? So, that's one of the important things to start to manage our soil in a, in a right, in a right way. Okay? So, Pam, let's go ahead. Okay. Now, we're going to be talking about how the, the soils get formed, okay? Okay? So, the, they are soil formation factors, they are five, and the, to, to, to, to, the form get developed, uh, it takes those factors to have an integration, uh, and an interaction among them, okay? And those factors are climate, organisms, topography, parental material, and time. So, climate, uh, the soils, for, for, for, same, in some way, the, uh, the soils in the tropics tends to develop faster than the soils in the, in, in temperate, uh, areas, right? Because in the tropics, we have summer, year, land, and all the process keep running. So, that's the reason why soil, soils get developed really fast in the tropics compared to the temperate areas, right? Organisms, so, soils, when we were talking in the soil definition about, uh, the solid part of the soil, uh, plus the material, uh, of, uh, aside of the, of the mineral part of the soil, we have the organic part. So, the organisms in the, in the place that the soil is getting, uh, developing have, uh, direct impact in the quality or, and, uh, and, uh, and the characteristics of those soils. For example, if we are in an area where we have, uh, a lot of pines, uh, in comparison with, with a broadleaf, uh, forest, so the soil will have a really different characteristic, especially in the, in the, uh, chemical characteristic, for say, in some way. Uh, okay? So, that's, it's one of examples how the organisms affect the soils, not just the microorganisms living in the soil, but also the plants and the animals in the area. So, the topography, it is really important for the soil development in places where, where, like, in, here in Puerto Rico, that we have a major part of our, of our, uh, uh, of our island, it's, it's, it's on, on hills, right? So, soils on hill slopes tend to develop, uh, less, if you see it, because they are having constant, constant range of all the material because of the erosion, because of the rain, and, you know, and the, and the, and the slope. Okay? So, in the other hand, soils in the plain areas keep, uh, are turned to be more fertile because they are receiving all that input from the mountains, and they are stable, and they can develop, uh, more, and you can find in the plain areas more developed soils with regional organic matter, and more deep in some, in some cases, uh, because they are stable all the time. Okay? The other thing is parental material or bedrock. When we are talking about the parental material of the soil, we are talking about the rock that it's going to get disintegrated, the right term for this kind of, for this event, when the rock is getting, uh, disintegrated in soil sign is weathering. The weathering, it is because of the, uh, sorry, maybe, okay, so the, uh, the soil, the rock, it's getting weathering because of the climate, the organisms, another factor that it will be getting disintegrated and the soils, most part of the soils are just a disintegrated rock. But the soil, if you, if you see, um, soil could be classified and, and renewable resource, but for our lifespan, the soils, we need to manage the soil as their finite resource, right? Because all of this takes a lot, lot, lot of time, time, hundreds or thousands of years to soil to get developed, right? So soils are in constant, uh, cycling, but by, for, for our lifespan, we never see these changes in soil. That's the reason why we need to manage the soil in a better way, okay? And that is the matter or the role of time in the soil, okay? So those are the five factors of soil formation, and they are combined with the four soil formation processes. Those are, those processes are addition, losses, transformations, and translocation. When we are talking about additions, we are talking about the organisms, the other material that could be bring for, because for erosion, because of floating of the areas, the, the path of the, of rivers in some time. Um, this kind of, those are the additions. So losses are the, when, when soil, uh, have losses could be in the surface because of the runoff or, or through the soil profile that sometimes we call this elixiviation for statements. Uh, it's one of the terms, uh, it's one of the terms that we use when we lose some material through the soil profile. At same, the additions could be, uh, happening from the bottom to the, uh, upper part of the soil. So sometimes by capillarity, that tends to happen when we have soils, uh, above of some, uh, salt, uh, salty water, uh, reservoirs. Uh, we can, we, sometimes we can, we can have this kind of event and that's for farm purposes. It is, uh, it, it's not good for, for this because salt affect, really affect the development of roots of the plants. And, you know, so this is one of, of, for same, some example of what is additions or analysis, right? Transformation. We are referring in the transformation, uh, an example of this is the, the decay of organic matter in the soil. Also, uh, with the past of the time and the weathering process, some of the minerals in the soils will change from one mineral to form another minerals and combine sometimes with other ones to form another ones and in this way, right? And translocation are the, the past through the soil profile of some of its components from the bottom part to the, to the lower parts. Uh, that is one of the, of the, uh, of example from translocation, right? So, after saying all of these, of the soil formations, so all of these have, uh, give us the basis to start, uh, to classify the soil and study and classify the soils. Soil taxonomy or classification was developed in the United States in around, if I remember well, in the 40s, I think, or 50s. I don't remember the exact date, but the guy that started to doing this was a scientific working for, for the agency for NRCS, uh, of the USDA. And, uh, he, he's the one in charge of, of develop the taxonomy of the soils. That's the reason why, uh, the most, the most used system of classification of soils around the world is the one developed for, from USDA. But if you research on the, on online, you can find that the food and agriculture organization from the United Nations have a classification system. Uh, in Brazil, they have another classification system. In other parts of the, other countries have their own classifications. But no matter which of those systems you are using, all the time, we're going to have 12 soil orders. In the entire world, what, uh, exists just 12 types or, or 12, uh, orders of soils. In terms of classification, soil of all orders are the, the very upper, uh, level of classifications. Okay. Uh, and the most specific, uh, level of classifications of soils are the series. Uh, series, it is the soil that was, uh, discovered in X part of the, of the word. And they name it sometimes, uh, tends to have the name of the part that were discovered by the first time. And it is the more specific term to refer and identify this soil. Okay. Within those levels, we have the other ones. So sub, sub order, great group, sub group, family. But for, uh, for, for, for daily purposes, for saying in some way, those level of classifications are, uh, you will not use it many much. Those are more, the, the name that you, you give to the soils under this level of classifications are more for use of scientific purposes. Right? So you will, uh, you will find the number, the names, uh, the names of the nouns on, under those level of classifications. They are compound nouns. And each part of the noun gives you some, uh, some information about the soil as the weather regime, the precipitation regime, if they have a particular characteristic within the, the horizons and the order of the soil that you are dealing with it. But for purposes of us, that just, I want to, to, to, to, to know that the most specific and most useful level of classification for soil are the series and the orders. Okay. So let's see, uh, let's break down the soil of, or the, the order of soils. Okay. So the 12 soil, 12 soil orders around the, uh, in the, in the, in the word, they are the alphysoles, and isoles, aridisoles, antisoles, gelisoles, histosoles, inceptisoles, mollisoles, oxisoles, spolosoles, yultisoles, vertisoles, annoles, annoles, annoles, annoles, annoles, annoles, annoles, annoles, right for soils. And each of them, uh, have a specific characteristic. Okay. Uh, let's take, for example, the, the, andisoles are soils derived for, for recently volcanic activity. That's been the most part of those soils. You can find it around what we call the, the ring of fires. That's the, the coast that border the Pacific, uh, ocean. And in the, in the islands within the Pacific Ocean as Hawaii for, for, for bring some example, or, uh, in the case for, for related more to our daily, uh, in the area that we are working on running this program in Guatemala, one of the most common soil orders are the andisoles. Okay. Okay. But, uh, not in Bahamas, neither in Puerto Rico, neither in USBI, we have andisoles. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Uh, other, other soils orders that they, you can find, uh, in our, in our islands or our common finds are the mollisoles. Mollisoles are one of the, uh, it is the best soils, soil order with the natural characteristic for farming. It's the, the, a natural soil that have all the qualities that you want in a soil to farm in. But because of natural occurrence. Okay. Uh, for, for describe some soil in all the time I ask the people a question. So what is, uh, what, what, what, what is the best soil for, for farming? And many times people, uh, answer me, mollisoles. And I say, you know, it is good, but it is because of the natural characteristic. But, but the best soil to farming, it is the one that you have on your farm. No matter what, that's the best one. Okay. They are not bad soils for farming. They are soils that are not managed in the right way. Okay. So at the second part of this presentation, we will be talking about practices to be implemented in your farm to improve your soil quality. Okay. So let's see what kind of soils we have in Bahamas and, and USBI. Okay. Okay. So I was making some research, uh, for this presentation and I could not find, and I'm, and it, this is, by the way, it is an invitation for, for any of Bahamas that have more information or they, of within our, our, uh, of the people in this webinar, they are anyone related to work with any, uh, government agency there. Uh, I invite them to, to let's talk about a little bit more about soil classification. Because I could not find any map of soil classification from Bahamas. No matter, I, I found some information of some research done in Bahaman soils, and we will be sharing some of this information with the guests at this webinar, right? Uh, Pamela will be sending this presentation, uh, with some, uh, support material of soil, including the, the information that we found from Bahamas. But, uh, reading about it, of this in, in using some of my, of my expertise or knowledge of soils, I can say that it's really probably that the predominant or, or the most common soil soil in Bahamas are a molly soils, but with, uh, leader, uh, you know, molly soils with, uh, with not so much development, because I know, uh, because I, I talk with some farmers there of our, of our network. So the source sometimes tends to not, not be so deep soils. Right. Right. And this picture is, uh, is from, uh, uh, uh, uh, this, um, this, um, this picture is from, from a piece of soils from, from Bahamas. And as you can see, this soil looks dark, the, the, the soil looks dark, dark, and it is up to, I, I understand about it. I think this soil, it's really, really fertile, fertile for, for farming, right? No matter if you have some presence of rocks. And I know that sometimes it's kind of, of challenging to, uh, to tillage, but, but these soils, I think they have a really good natural characteristics, right? The other soil that you can find in Bahamas, uh, in this picture is from a pineapple production in other, uh, in Island, uh, um, I forgot the name of the island. I think it's was, um, okay, maybe I, I forgot the name of the island, but it is not in, it is not Abaco, Grand Bahamas, or, or Nassau. Okay, so, sometimes that's other kind of thing that you can find there are kind of reddish soil. These soils sometimes tends to be a kind of acidic soils, but because of their bedrock or rock that you can find in Bahamas, they tend to, to have a pH neutral near to seven, so they are good soils too. Uh, and the formation of these reddish soils, it's kind of different. They are not happening by the same, uh, way of the other ones, right? So, the reason that the Bahamas have those kind, uh, ah, okay, yeah, some, some pineapples came from Iliuterra. Okay, my bad with the pronunciation, okay? So, my main language is Spanish, so I'm trying to do my best with the English. So, right, I, it's what I find on, on, on, online and with information, and I know that, uh, this island has a history of pineapple production. And, okay, to explain a little bit more, so what's cool happened with those soils is it is because when the, when the, uh, plagues, the tectonic plagues were moving and, and the continent was getting separated, uh, along the, the developing of the, of the earth, uh, sometimes the, the, when they got separated, they migrate from, from one part of the world to others. And maybe this, this part of this island was, uh, over the sea level, and they have some encounter with the other part of the island. That's one of, of my theories, because what I was reading about it, okay? So, the rock in, in talking about the parental material or, or the rocks, that they, uh, are one of the, of the factors of soil formation. Many of the, or the major part of the Bahamans archipelago. Uh, it is the, the, the limestone rock, right? And this picture, it's, uh, from a, a national park in Nassau. And that's, it's what the limestone looks, you know? The limestone's up here because many of the island in the Caribbean was produced by the volcanic eruptions under the sea levels. And they rise up. And this material came from the decomposition of many marine animals. And it, uh, that's the reason why, what is, uh, what is coming to find some fossils among those rocks, okay? But, uh, I, I'm kind of, uh, of excited to, to, to go to Bahamas when, when COVID gets better and learn more of the farming there and see the soil there. But by now, what I can say, it is that the soil just need a little bit of, as the way I say, uh, of love to produce really, really well. They have a lot, lot, lot of good characteristics to produce, okay? So let's see what we got on USB-I. In USB-I, we have those maps because, uh, USB-I as well, as well as Puerto Rico, uh, we are territories from, from USA and the NRCS work in our region, right? And, uh, and the, uh, and the office from NRCS of the Caribbean area is located in Puerto Rico. So we, we share the same, the same, uh, team from NRCS, right? So there, uh, we can find, uh, out of the 12 soils orders, we can find, uh, six of them, right? Uh, but the most predominant one are this one that is named mollisoles. And when I went to Sandcraig to visit Sunform, I was using an application that we can use, uh, in, in Puerto Rico, Virgin Islands, and United States that say to us which kind of soil we have. If the soil, uh, was in the, uh, if the soil it is in the, uh, in the database for NRCS, using this, this application, we can, can know which kind of soil we have. And the farms that I visit there, all of them, uh, maybe except two, two farms, uh, are mollisoles that they have there, right? So this is the, the, the series that we, we can find there. For example, in Puerto Rico, out of the, of the 12 soil, 12 soil orders, we have 10 of them. The only one that we didn't have are the andesoles, because we didn't have volcanic activity, and the, uh, jelly soils. And the jelly soils are really, really important for, for, because they regulate many more, the, uh, the storage or, of, uh, greenhouse gases emission to the, to the atmospheres. But the jelly soils are those are soils that all the time, no matter, uh, with which season we are, they keep a horizon or, or, um, or a layer, a layer of ice within the soil profile. Uh, that's the reason that neither in Puerto Rico, USBI or, or, or Bahamas, we have this kind of soil. Okay. So, well, after this, uh, brief or an, or an intense part of soil science basics, uh, terms and, uh, and information, we're going to move to talk about the adequate soil management. And by the way, I just want to stop here and ask if anyone have a question about it, what the terms we was talking about it. And just to say, I, I know, uh, this, this webinars will are. We are wants to provide the tools for bear, uh, to implement better management practicing at farm level. But for me, it is important for all of you to know those concepts because the good agriculture, it is not a recipe. It is a base of knowledge that you can apply and help you to analyze everything that you are doing as a farmer. Okay. That's the reason why I'm explaining those basic topics of soil science. Okay. Um, let me see the, the chat or the Q and A if we have. So at this point, I don't think we have any open questions. Um, why? Okay, great. Um, just a couple of comments and people sharing information and feedback. Thank you all so much for all of that. Um, we have a comment that says for USPI, um, the, in Puerto Rico, the USDA NRCS, that's the Natural Resource Conservation Service, um, has a free website where you can look up your farm on a map and see the soil types. So, yes, it's the Web Soil Survey. We can actually share the link. I'll be sharing it in the chat. Yeah. Thank you. And by the way, the, the application, the application that I was mentioned is linked with this, with this, uh, webpage. So it's, it's a version for, for this webpage to have it in your, in your mobile. Right? Yeah. Okay. Well, let's move forward. And yeah. Let's move, move forward and let's talk about the adequate soil management. Um, by the way, I just want to mention that I will be sharing some of some practices, some basic practices, but they are many, many other things that you can do to improve your soil management. Okay. Okay. Oh, Pam, I think we, we get out of the, okay. Let's talk about soil quality or soil fertility. Okay. Soil quality is defined as the ability of the soil to function as an entity capable of sustaining an ecosystem on understand plants, uh, or support plant growing animals and us humans. Okay. Let's break down this. Okay. So if you, if, if you are read about soil fertility or as, for example, for me, I'm, I'm, I'm an agronomist. So at the, in the, in the, in the faculty, what sometimes are many much time or the approach of many of soil scientists. When we talk about the soil fertility or quality, it just focus on the chemical properties of the soils that's happened because of the industrial. Agricultural practices adopt or and promoted widely, uh, after the green revolution. So if you, uh, were in the, in the first, in the first webinar, I, I did with it about the sustainable agriculture, uh, series past month, I talk a little bit about what is the, the green revolution. And then, and I invite all of you to search for what it is. That's the, the reason that we, our agriculture, uh, sometimes, uh, have some practices that are really affecting the environment, uh, worldwide. Right. But that's the reason we're here to, to improve those practices. But when we are talking about soil quality and soil fertility, we need to have an holistic approach, an integral approach to evaluate this. An integral approach to, to determine how, uh, good is your soil. You need to evaluate three basics characteristics of soils. So they are the chemical properties of soils, physical properties of soils and biological, uh, characteristic of soils. Okay. So let's talk of each one. And I will tell you the way you can, uh, know those characteristics on your soils. Okay. First, let's talk about the chemical properties of soils. So when we are talking about the chemical properties of soils, we are talking about the minerals that we have on the soils or the nutrients. We are talking about the pH or the acidity of the soil. Uh, we are talking about the percentage of organic material that you have matter that you have in soils. Right. So the best way and the more accessible way to make this is to send an example of soil to a laboratory to analyze this. So in, in, in USBI and Bahamas, they are, uh, it is kind of simple to do this and it is not so expensive. So I invite all of you, uh, if you have the opportunity to make some, some soil test, uh, on your farm to make it. Okay. So when we send the email with the presentation and the information, we will be sending some, some, uh, contacts of, of laboratories that you can make this kind of, of test on your soil. Right. Uh, if you see there, this image is a report from a soil test from one of our, of our, uh, participants in Puerto Rico. Um, if you see there, this is what, what it's called in soil, in soil fertility, uh, basic soil fertility analysis. Okay. So there you will find the, the, uh, get, uh, basic cations and sodium, potassium, uh, sodium, potassium, phosphorus, uh, some micronutrients have, have molded them, borum, and things like this, that they are really important for the world growing of, of the plants. If you look at the far right column of this paper, you will see that it say that CEC, that's means the cation exchange capacity of the soils. And let's stop this and explain this, uh, slowly. What is cation exchange capacity? Is, is the capacity that the soil have to exchange cations, nutrients with the plants. Because, uh, when you put in a fertilizer to the soil, the fertilizer is not providing the soil directly with the nutrients. The one that have the capacity to make this is the soil. That's the reason that you need to have your soil working, uh, in the best way at the maximum capacity to make the soil to provide all those nutrients to the, to the plants. Right. Uh, for example, another example of this, if you, the pH of the soil are not the right one, many times that cause a fixation of the phosphorus in soil. So that's a reason why we need, need to manage the soil in a holistic way to make the soils work, uh, in our favor, right. To provide the plants with all of this. So those are the, some of those basic characteristics of soils, right. So if you are interested in making a, this kind of, of chemical tests on, of your soil, uh, we, you can contact us and we will be able to help. And, and, and help you with, with, uh, to figure out and, and have this done. Okay. So we are not saying that we would be paying for this, but we will say that we help with the contacts. And as well, I can make the arrangement of the soil sampling in the farm, because it is important to say to take those samples in the right way, because the analysis, uh, if you don't take the samples to the right way, the analysis can, uh, show some, uh, fake results, you know. And what are important things of make this, it is that in terms of operation costs. It's normal that the people that use soil analysis have, they can lower their, their production costs because they know how many, how, how much of fertilizer you will use. Right. If you are using, uh, synthetic fertilizer is, it is really recommended, highly recommended to make those kinds of tests. Other thing it is that, uh, as I, as I mentioned yesterday in the Spanish section, I'm not saying. I I'm, I'm not talking about in general terms, but sometimes the companies that sell fertilizer, they provide this, this service for free, but it is important to you, uh, to know that you need to be a little, a little bit, uh, aware of the, of the, sometimes those, uh, companies, sometimes they, they just want to send, sell the, uh, the fertilizer. Right. And sometimes they, they don't, not make the right recommendations. Okay. I'm not saying everyone are doing this. I'm just saying that in my experience as agronomist, I see, I saw this, uh, sometimes. Okay. So just to, to let you know, and for you to be aware when you are, if you have to deal with it. Okay. Other properties of soil that are really important are, as I mentioned before, are the physical properties and the physical properties in terms of soil science, they are many, many, many much. And it is a huge deal of this, but for farm purposes and, and, and, you know, uh, in terms that you can, can, can deal with it in, in farm. So we, let's talk about the texture of the soil. When we are talking about physical properties, the first thing that we, uh, need to measure and know it's the property, uh, the texture of the soil. Okay. So what we define as soil for, for, for agricultural purposes are any particle that you have, uh, that measure less than two millimeters of that diameter. Right. So it's the, uh, the, uh, at the picture that you have, uh, on your right of your left part of the screen, you can see the difference of size of the three particles of soils. Those three particles are sand, silt and clay. Okay. Being the big one, as you see there, the sand, then we have the silt and we, and then we have the clay and you barely see the clay because the clays are so, so small that they are not visible to the human eye. You need a microscope to see the clays, but no matter the size, the clays are the most active particle of the soils. Clays determine a lot, lot, lot of the soil behavior, right? And they are the one responsible for the cation exchange with the plants. Okay. So the clays are the active part of the soils. Sands have some mechanics, uh, role in, on soils, as well as silt. Silt plus mechanic, plus mechanical, uh, properties in the soils. They can hold a little bit of water, but the water retention is the soils also happen because of the silt. Okay. So at the right part of the screen, you see there a texture, uh, triangle of soil. Right. So you see the, the numbers in any of the axis, axis of the, of the triangle, right? So in each of them, you have one of those particles at the right, at the left axis, going from, from the bottom to the upper part of the triangle, you have the clay. At the other part, at the right side, you have the, uh, the silt. And the, uh, in the bottom axis, you have the, the sand and how it's work. When you done an analysis for, for texture, uh, at the laboratory level. So you, they will inform you that you have X percent of sand, X percent of silt and X percent of clay. You go there with each of these for, for making an example. If you have a soil that have 40% of clay, you identify the, the clay axis there and the lines running in the same way of the, of the arrow that you see there. That's, it's the way that you will identify your, your texture class of your soil. Uh, then if that soil have 20% of sand, you will look in the line that's going from over, from the right to the left, over to down part of the triangle. That line. Okay. And if you have 40% of clay, 20% of, of silt, you need to have 20% of sands, right? So you go to the triangle and identify the line that's going from the very bottom to the, uh, left upper part of the triangle. Right. And you go there and say, okay, we have 40%, uh, of this 20% of that and 20% of sand that is running from one side to the other. And what we got, it is, okay. Let me see. Okay. So what we got, that it is a soil that, that could be classified to clay loam. That's the texture class of, of the soil, right? For same in some way. So when you see the, the, the term loam in the texture part of the soil, loam refers to a soil that it is well balanced within the tree particles. Okay. The distribution of the particles are well balanced within the soil. Okay. That's the, that's why the term loam is. Okay. So, but let's talk about how you can do it. This at your farm or, or, you know, or make by your own, do it by yourself at your home or, or your farm. Okay. So let's see the first one of those tests are the yard test or the mason yard test. This test, uh, work really well, except in soils that tends to be more acidic soils because, uh, okay. Let's just, let me first explain this, this, uh, the procedure of this test as well. We will send, uh, in the, in the support material, we send, we will send the instruction for you to don't this kind of, uh, of, uh, of test. So the mason yard test, what you do, it is that you take around the half volume of the yard. Uh, even you can, you can, you can, you can make this, you, you, you don't need a mason yard to make it. You can do it using any kind of, uh, glass or plastic, uh, bottle. Okay. That you can make it, uh, as well using this kind, this, this kind, uh, uh, of materials, right? So you will put the half of the volume of that yard with this, you will fill it with the soil. So you, as well, maybe let me explain this. So when we are taking samples to, to run any test of soils for agricultural purposes, uh, commonly, we just, we, we do it within the first 12 inches or 30 centimeters of the soils because of the, of the agricultural purposes. So within this, uh, within this depth, uh, it is where we find the active roots of the crops of the plants. The active roots of the plants that are responsible to acquire nutrients in the soils, they, uh, commonly, they, they are, uh, they, you can find it at that depth. After this, if you find other, uh, more roots of the plants, uh, after the 12 inches, sometimes those roots are just for purposes of, of water intake and, and help with, uh, with the strength of, of the plants. Right? So that's the reason why, uh, we make the, all the soil samples we take for these purposes within the, the first 12 inches or 30 centimeters of the soil. So we, you will take, uh, an example of your soil, uh, within this depth, fill the yard at the half, and then you fill, complete fill the volume with the yard with water. And you will shake heavily to mix all of this with water. And you just left the yard in a place and a safe place for around 24 hours. After this, you will see that this, the soil inside the yard will precipitate as you can see at the right, uh, picture, uh, of your screen. Right? So, and then you see that there are three fractions of soils. So the first one that's going to be precipitated, and I can say that will happen within the first seconds or, or less than a minute. Then after you shake it, are the sand. The second, a fraction of this precipitation will be the silts. And the upper part of this will be the clay. Okay? So because, uh, uh, of this, if you want to know the percentage of it is this, what you do is that with, uh, with a scale, you go there and you measure the, uh, the height of the column of that, uh, of those particles. And then you divide by the total of the, uh, of the, uh, of the height of this column, each part of this, you divide the, the, uh, the measurement of each of those layers by the total height of the column. And in this way, you can have, uh, an idea of how, of how the, those particles of soils are, uh, um, are distributed in your, in your farm. Right. But as I mentioned for soils that tends to be more acidic soils, and let me explain again, uh, of this. Soils with, with colors more with reddish and yellowish colors tend to be more acidic soils. The color in the soils are not directly related to the level of facility of the soils, but in the major part of the times it's happened. Soils that tends to be more reddish and yellowish tends to be more acidic. And in the other hand, uh, soils with darker colors tend to be, to have a higher pH and be, uh, less acidic soils. Okay. Uh, why, why they don't, don't work well in acidic soils? Because the oxids that's happened in this kind of soils tend to glue all the particles and the particles precipitated in, in the water because of the size. And you can have those oxidized, uh, uh, uh, oxids, um, gluing the, the, a huge amount of silts and the silts can precipitate and looks like, like they are sand, but they are not sand. They are sealed. Right. Because of this, uh, I recommend is, and is, it is my favorite one. The next method it's, it's named the field method. Okay. Or the handmade as well. You can find it on, on, like as this. Okay. So Pam, let's go with the others like this. Okay. The field test, uh, there, as you see, you will do it by your hand. And what you need to, uh, to do is just take, uh, um, the amount of soils you can handle, uh, put inside your hand. You will wet the soil as much as you, as possible. And then you start to play with that there, with that soil. Okay. And then you'd start to try to form a ribbon. If the ribbon form, it is that your soil have, uh, a well-balanced, uh, particle, uh, particle proportion. Right. But then you start to squeeze that ribbon and try to, uh, to make it longer. If this happens, your soil have a huge amount of clays. But if the ribbon form, but you cannot, uh, make it longer and the ribbon break, that's, that means that the soil is well-balanced. If your soil is really sandy, uh, you even can't, uh, could not form the ribbon. Okay. But if you see that, that diagram, that diagram was developed by USDA and we will send you, uh, if you want to make this test, you, you just go step by step of this diagram. And that will give you an, uh, uh, and a good idea of what's the texture of your soil. Okay. Why this is important for our, our, um, our practice in soil because of the texture of the soil. That's determined how heavily you need to, to plow the soil to prepare that soil as well. That's, will give information to us about the drainage of the soil, about the water retention of the soil. Right. That's, it's the reason that I highly recommend to you to know the texture of your soil. That's will determine, uh, will be determined some, uh, important issues about your soil. About, uh, one of these issues are the irrigation. The irrigation, as all of you know, agriculture have a highly consumption of water and water. Each time get more important because, you know, one of the, of the effects of the climate change is the shortage of water. Right. So we need to manage water as best as we can. So knowing your texture of soil will determine or help you to figure out the best way to manage soils and provide irrigation to the, your, to your crops. Okay. That's one of the, of the, uh, one of the factors that it is important to know that the texture of soil. Okay. So let's go ahead with the other one. Pam. And now we will talking about the biological properties. And by the way, in the, uh, in the, uh, industrial or conventional agriculture, as we, as we, uh, name it, uh, soil fertility is really focused on, on chemical properties, but also some of the physical properties of the soil because of water management of the soils. But ignore completely the biological component of the soils and the soils are living entities, right? Soils are alive. Okay. Um, and for agriculture purposes, it is really important to, uh, to maintain alive those soils. Soils that are running in the best way, they have a lot, lot, lot of microorganisms working there and we can make those microorganisms help us to farming. Okay. Believe me. I will explain a little bit more. So some of the physical, uh, of the functions of the soil microorganisms are, they are primary ions in the nutrient cycles. So this is related in the farm. We can relate this with, uh, with the nutrition and fertility of the plants. So they regulate the dynamics of soil organic matters, right? So microorganisms in soils are responsible to the composition of the organic matter. And when they are decomponing this, uh, this organic matter as well, they are, uh, release nutrients for the plants to, uh, to be, to be taken by the plants. Okay. So the soils and the microorganisms in the soils, they help to sequestrate organic carbon and other greenhouses. By the way, I, I don't, I don't remember if I mentioned it, but one of the other important roles of their soils, it is the soil is one of the major, uh, storage of, of car of carbon and other, uh, greenhouse gases. That's another reason why we need to manage the soils. When we destroy the soil and we manage in the runway, we are, uh, we, we are putting those gases back to the atmosphere. And we don't want to keep doing this. Right. Okay. So as well, the, uh, microorganisms in the soils have the power to modify the physical structure of the soil and as consequence, the water retention. And as I mentioned, the, the, those organisms can, uh, improve the acquisitions of nutrients by the plants and keep their, their healthy. Okay. Let me explain this. So, uh, uh, uh, uh, a good part of the, of the pest and, and the disease that affects our, our, our, our plants, our crops are soil-borne. If you have, uh, uh, well-developed soil with, uh, a lot that, that it is alive and, uh, have a healthy microflora. So the, the space for those soil-borne pests and, uh, sorry, my bad, I forgot, and disease for the plants, uh, it's limited, right? When we, when we, uh, have this, we are, uh, for saying some way, we are making more, more, uh, more sure our environment for plants to be healthier. Right. So if you look, uh, in the literature or, you know, by now, all of these, uh, in the present, we have a, a, a powerful tool that is in the internet. Right. If you, if you Google, uh, what is suppressive soils, you will find it is a kind of practice that some farmers do to develop their soils to be so, so, so healthy. And the microorganisms are so developed that they suppress any pathogen that it is within the soil. Okay. So let me see here. This is soil microorganisms can also have bioremediate against harmful chemicals. Oh yeah, for sure. That is another, uh, thank you, uh, Christina. Uh, this is true. Other role of the microorganisms is that they help to decompose any harmful, uh, substance in soils. Okay. So that is, um, for example, I have a friend that she, she's been researching from sowing bacterias that decompose, uh, um, products made by, uh, using from, from oil products. Right. And it's named bioremediation. That's the term for this kind of, of, uh, of work. Right. Okay. So let's talk about a little bit of, of microorganisms and other important factors in the soil. Okay. So now, uh, other thing that, okay. Ah, well, first, as I was telling, so the bio, uh, the soil have many, many, many, many life inside. So it is estimated that in a spoon of, uh, healthy soils are more organisms that people in the entire planet. Okay. So that's, that, that is why, how important it's to keep alive the soil. And as I mentioned, uh, at the beginning of the presentation, the soil hosts a quarter of our planet, planet biodiversity. And many of that biodiversity relies on, of soil microorganisms. Okay. So directly linked to the life in the soils are one key factor that I always, uh, promote. And it is the organic matter. So let's talk about the organic matter. Okay. Organic matter in the soil are really important as making a pause here. As I always mentioned to everybody, to every farmer or every time I have the opportunity, it is that the, uh, key for a successful agriculture and a healthy environment are the soils. So it's not only the organic matter, but within the soil, the keystone in the soils, it is organic matter. Organic matter, uh, it is magic. Okay. Believe me. Uh, so let's see what, uh, what is organic matter and in which way we can provide our soil with the right amount of, of organic matter. Okay. Okay. Okay. So the organic matter are the remains of decomposed organisms, plants and animal. This decomposition process is mostly carried out by the microorganisms that naturally inhabit in the soils. Soils doing animals such as, uh, worms and insects and other invertebrates also participated. Okay. But the decomposition of organic matter, the, the biggest part of this was carried out by the microorganisms in the soils. When I talk about microorganisms, I'm not just talking about bacteria. We are talking about, uh, fungus, uh, actinomycets and other kinds of microorganisms that live in the soils. Okay. So the humus originates from this process and let's see what is humus. Uh, the humus, when we are talking about the humus, we are not talking about the food that I like, I really want too much with when we are talking about the organic matter that it is in the maximum state of decomposition. And I put their quote unquote, because these humans will keep, uh, the process of the composition in the soils and for other substance in the, in the, in the, uh, in the long run of the time in the soil. But for our purposes of this presentation, uh, what I, you want to know are the humus. It is an, uh, an estate of organic matter that you cannot identify where the material came from. Okay. And I excited to say in some way, but just to give you an idea, we could not say that, um, organic matter came from a branch of a tree or from an arm of a human. Because we are organics, uh, organic, uh, being, uh, being stew, right? So, uh, that's a reason that that is what is human. So at this point, you have the organic matter in the right decomposition state to apply to the soils. And other thing I always, uh, say, or for example, to let, uh, the, the, the people understand it is some, uh, prior to, to, um, a few years ago, I worked for, for, for around, I think around. I worked for four years as independent consultant. And sometimes when I visit some farm to make some consultations, they say, man, I'm applying compost to the, to the, to the soils, but we have a problem. The plants were not growing well. When I was going to check, I discovered that they were not applying compost or humus. They were applying sheephood wood for saving some, uh, for, for, for example. And when you do this, you are causing problems to the soils because the soil microorganisms will use the nitrogen in the soil. Uh, they will, um, they will sequestrate this nitrogen to process the carbon in organic matter, causing a shortage of nitrogen for the plants. That's, that's the reason why when we are using the humus and applying compost, uh, or any other kind of, of organic matter in farming, we need to be sure that the, the composition is in this state to don't cause problems in the soils. Okay. So that is humus. And now we will see some practices of what, uh, in which way we, we can produce these humus, right? So the very, uh, simple one or most popular one are the compost and the composting process, uh, will help us. It is a, it is, it is an ally in the farming, right? So what is the compost? The compost is a product of the process by which organic waste is decomposed by the action of microorganisms and other natural organisms in an aerobic way. It is a process that recycled nutrients and provided life to the soils. In this way, we take advantage of materials that would otherwise become waste, right? And they are not, not, uh, I forgot to put a column, quote unquote, way, uh, this way, this waste, but we call it waste, but it is not the way they are not debris. Uh, they are really helpful material that we can reuse in our operation, right? As I say, compost is not a fertilizer. It is a real, uh, super fertilizer because coal have the power to provide our plant, not just nutrients, but we help us to develop really well our soils. And other thing that's the compost help it is with the water retention too. Okay. Okay. So let's see what consideration you need to have to make a compost on farm. Okay. By the way, uh, we will send a kind of recipe for, for make compost, but you know, the best way to make compost is the one that works for you. Being a farmer takes a lot of time. I know it is a hard work and sometimes we need to figure out the way to, to make the things as, as best for our, for our time. Okay. So what I'm referring to is don't, um, don't overwhelm yourself to have a compost really, really, you know, as you read all the time. So compost, you can make compost in a, in a really easy way. Okay. But some of the consideration that we need to have to place the compost in our farm and start to produce compost as well as you have a garden, you can use it too. Okay. It is the location. The place should not have excessive humidity or shade. The area where it, uh, the area where it is, uh, will be located must have a good drainage. It is ideal to have a direct light of approximately six hours a day close to a water source, should not stand in the passage of runoff water and different types of, uh, as well as different types of containers can, could be used. So I just include that last bullet, because if you are just doing a small amount of compost, you can use containers. You don't need a huge, uh, part of your land to produce compost. But if you are doing, uh, in a larger scale to provide you enough material for your operation, well, the best way is make it by doing piles as we will see in the next slide. Okay. Okay. Why the place should not have excessive humidity? Because a lot of humidity in the compost will cause that the compost pile don't reach the temperature, right? And to complete the process of composting. So it relies on those, uh, temperatures to rise above the hundreds degrees. Okay. So we will see, uh, uh, some of those specific, uh, criteria in, in, in a few moments. Okay. Um, they are, the area, other thing is the close to water source, because if you are in, uh, having or passing by a dry season, you need to add some water and humidity to the soil, to the compost to rise the temperature. Right? Right? That's the humidity that the allocated humidity on the compost pile is a key, uh, play a key component, uh, to, to done this process in the right way. Okay. Okay. So let's see, uh, uh, short recipe of the, of, of composting. Okay. Okay. And, uh, uh, uh, those things, I think I, I will change the, the title of this slide. Maybe I forget to do it. But some of considerations or, or specific things that you need to ensure to done your composting process well. It is a constant humidity as I was explaining, uh, to, uh, to optimize the process. And how you can test your piles have the, the right amount of water. So as I say there, so when squeezing the material into the compost pile, their moist should feel like a sponge after being run out. Okay. So in the way you can, you go at, uh, as far as you can go to the center of the pile of compost, you grab a bunch of that material. And then put it down and squeeze. When you squeeze this material, if, if has, have a lot of water squeezing of there, you have too much water and high humidity. And that will cause that your compost pile, uh, will not reach the, the right temperatures. But if you squeeze this and it's leave a, a little film of water in your hand, that's the right way to determine. You have the right moisture on your compost as well. So this criteria, you can use it, uh, to, to determine the right humidity on your soil. The temperature should be reached between 140 to 160 Fahrenheit degrees for not less than seven days. For what? For what? Because that's the way we ensure that the, all the pathogens and the seeds presence in that material will be destroyed. Okay. So with this temperature, that is what, what, uh, make our compost pathogen and pathogen seeds and all on any other component that, that could be harmful for our health or the health of our farm. So that's secure that this compost will be safe to, to the, to the usage and the, and the management. Okay. Okay. The compost can be turned over as this speed of, uh, okay. You can turn the piles of the compost and that will speed the process because you are, uh, putting, uh, let the, the pile to, to, to, to have more air as well. Uh, if you don't have the time of you, of, it is too much work for you to, to turn over the piles, uh, I will send, uh, in the email, we will send an, a model of, uh, of static piles composting in static piles that you can make it. And you just need to, uh, to get some of, of, of PVC, uh, uh, uh, pipes and drill some holes along of the, of the pipe and put it within crossing the pile. And that's will help to maintain air running through the pile. Okay. And that's will help to speed up the process. And the last thing I want to share with you about the, the compost, it is that the composting process can take from one to 10 months and even could take more. So that's the reason why we need to, to have the material that we use is, uh, as, as cheap as we can. If you are composting, uh, more wood materials that will take, take, take longer because of the, of the, uh, composition of the, uh, uh, of the wood. Right. So if you are composting leaf and, and things like this, that will, uh, be, will be faster. Okay. Okay. Bam. Let's go to talk about the other, the other practices. Oh, oh, well, yeah. So there you see that the piles, you see the, the, the biggest pile for, for, uh, uh, big for operation or, or medium to, to, to scale for operation. And you see the, uh, um, the vapor coming out of the pile because of the temperatures, right? So the other thing are smoke piles that you can make it on your, on your garden, or even if you are producing a small scale. So that's our example that no matter how big or how small is your operation, you can make it. And there's other thing there. And I highly recommend to have it. Uh, it is that, that, uh, uh, thermometer for composting. So you can get one of those for less than, than 20 bucks. Okay. So, and that's, will help you to figure out if your piles are getting the right temperature. So if you are composting, uh, I highly recommend to get one of these and have, uh, and keep monitoring the temperatures daily. Okay. So there's another, a lot of other ways that you can compost. You can use a lot of, of containers and bins and different models. So there are the most common ones. Okay. The piles. Oh, other thing that is, I was talking about the, the, the relation between the compost and the microorganisms. So if you want to add microorganisms to your soils, you can do it. And right here, I will share with you, uh, this recipe of forest microorganism as they are known well as the indigenous microorganisms, efficient microorganisms. They have a lot of, of, of names, but this recipe is what I done for my, for my master, uh, degree thesis project. So I was, uh, testing this, this practice that is from, you know, from, from, well, that has been used in farming around the world from hundreds or, or, or, or thousands of years. Right. Right. So what I done, it was, I, I got, uh, a few recipes from central and South America and I, um, I modified those recipes, those recipes to, to, to, to the, to the ingredients and, and the source of materials we have in Puerto Rico. So, so, but there are many ways that you can grow those microorganisms. Okay. And to apply those organisms to your soil to make it that soil alive again, or to maintain the soil alive. And this microorganism use it with the compost or any kind of, of organic material in the soils, uh, have a really, really well results. Okay. So what my, the recipe I done, uh, involve the rice and corn or corn meal. Uh, we use here coffee husk. That is what you are seeing at, uh, seeing at the left picture, but also you can use rice husk too, uh, forest microorganisms, rock house milk, cane molauses, and wood ash. Okay. Each of those components have a role in the recipe. You know, it's obviously right. But, uh, for example, where you can find forest microorganisms. So you will, you just have to go to a forest area near of your farm. You will move the, the leaf on the, on the, on the soils, and you will find this kind of form of this kind. A formation, as you see in the, in the border of the barrel looks like a cotton. That is a growing of, uh, fungus. Okay. So when you find this in the, that that's what you will find in the soil. When you find this formation in the, in the first layer of the soil, that's indicates you that there are healthy populations of microorganisms. So you will take around two pounds of this, of the leaves and, uh, and the humus in the, in that soil. And that's what will be your inoculment for the recipe. Right. Uh, as well, I, uh, we add rock-on milk to a port lactobacils to the, to the, our recipe. Right. After a process of, of fermentation of around 30 to, uh, to 45 days, we have the, that, uh, that growing of the microorganisms in that mix. And another time, this formation of the, of the, of the fungus will indicate you that it is ready to use. Then you can, you take, uh, an amount of this and you brew a kind of tea, like a compost tea with those microorganisms. And then you put into the soils. Okay. And this is one way that you can produce your own microorganisms. Uh, there are plenty of uses. No, not just for the soil fertility, but also to help and prevent, uh, pests and, and disease on the plants. So, uh, we will share the recipe, uh, step by step to you, uh, with all of you. And also we will, uh, uh, share some, uh, uh, literature about the uses of this. Okay. As well, I have to mention that you can buy this commercially. Uh, you can search for, for efficient microorganisms or EM, uh, and you can, can, uh, find a plenty of different, of different brands and, and companies selling this. But I like to produce my ones because if I producing from, from microorganisms that I can find near to my farm, those microorganisms are adapted to this, to the conditions that my, that, that's our present in the farm too. So for me, it is more, more efficient to use, to, to, to, to produce your own ones. And this will cost you less than 20 bucks. The one that you have to, uh, to, to, to, that you can buy, uh, they're kind of expensive. Okay. They are above of sometimes, if I remember well, uh, above a 50, 80, and even above a hundred dollars. Okay. Okay. So let's keep moving forward for other practices. Okay. Another practice I highly recommend. And, and we, by the way, we are just talking today about basic practices to manage soil in, in better way, right? Are the cover crops. And I know, uh, uh, I know some of you were in, in the last, uh, webinar and I mentioned them a little bit, but not today we'll talk. We will talk about a more in detail of the cover crops. So right here, you can see, uh, two kinds of cover crops. The first one you can see at your left upper part of the slide. It's named, uh, sun hemp of the scientific name is Crotalaria juncia. And this cover crop I really like because he, uh, it's grow really fast and it support, uh, a significant amount of nitrogen, but there are many, many other ones. As the other one at the bottom, right bottom part of the slide, it is, uh, mucuna prurians. Uh, the common name of mucuna prurians is the velvet bean. And this is how you can find on the, on the market. A lot of, of supplements, uh, make it using this, this kind of crop, but as well, this crop could be used as a cover crop to support nitrogen nutrients and to cover the soils. And why the reason I recommend to use cover crop because the first barrier, uh, to protect your soil is to have it all the time, cover it. Okay. As we, we talked in, in the last webinar that sometimes you need the soils to, uh, to rest for a while. And in this, in this period, I highly recommend to make it in a managed way and use those cover crop to let your soil to recover for the, for, for, for the harvest. Okay. So there are many, many, many cover crops that you can, uh, use for this, not just to support nitrogen, to fix nitrogen. And I will explain how they fill nitrogen, uh, in within the next, uh, few. Uh, okay. I, Grandy Samuel asks if, can grass be a cover crop? Well, if you look at the definition, the basic definition of cover crop, it is any crop that you use to don't have, to don't leave the soil bare and, and protect from the, for the erosion. So there, there, uh, if you just have grass, if you just want to leave the grass growing, you can use it. The important thing it is to, to, uh, to keep a constant cover in your soil to avoid, uh, the loss of, of that soil. No matter if you are flat, no matter if you are in, in decline, no matter what, never, never, never leave your soil bare. Okay. So, but, uh, if you want to, to maximize this time, uh, you can use those, this kind of cover crops. Uh, most part of the cover crops you can find on the market are, are legumes. Okay. But also you will find other kind or families of plants as this one. This one, uh, many of you probably have experienced with this is the daikon radish or white radish. So the daikon radish is used as cover crop too, because the cover crops also could be used to maximize and improve the soil structure. Right. And it is a term or, or, or kind of practice name by biological tillage and the biological tillage. It's, it is done using this kind of plants, especially this one, because of the, uh, uh, in the way that plant grow, that's helped to lose your soil as well. It's translocate, they have the power to translate nutrients from the, from, from the lower part of the soil to the upper layers. Right. So that is another example of other plant that could be used as a cover crop. So if you have a soil that is kind of heavy, uh, as well, you can use it to a port, a significant amount of, of organic matter, because after it's grown, you can cut the upper part and the root will decay within the soil. And that's will be another way to a port organic matter to the soil. Right. Right. So this is another kind of cover crop that you could use. Okay. Um, let's go ahead. So right here, it is a picture and I know Samuel Granley will like this. This is a crop of planting in Puerto Rico. Um, this is an intercrop in between plantains and a cover crop name, uh, Cannavalia. And that's helped the plantains plants to be a kind of stronger. At the same time, this plant is fixing and providing nitrogen to those plants. So at the same time, it is reducing the labor to the farmers because in this way, you don't have to be, uh, cutting the grass or applying herbicides or things like this. That is one of the other, uh, use of the cover crops. Okay. And for the friends in, in USBI, I sent a little amount of this to the art farm. I know, I know Christina is there, so I want to, to let know how, how they, if they are using, how they are growing. Right. But it's really useful. This is one of other use that you can, uh, done with the cover crops. Okay. As well, it's, it is, it is used, um, as a natural mulching too. Okay. So, well, uh, I mean, about the, the, uh, nitrogen, a part of the cover crops to the, to the plants. So most of the cover crops. Okay. Uh, okay. Let me stop here. Uh, okay. Samuel, uh, Grandly. Uh, so yeah. So I, I will explain in the next moment. The, how, how you, how you, uh, apply fertilizer in combination with cover crops. Okay. Okay. Most part of the cover crops are leguminous plants or from the family Fabaceae. Okay. They are, this kind of plants have the potential of the power because it is a power to fix nitrogen from the atmosphere. So the most, um, a best of, of, okay. The biggest storage of nitrogen on earth. It's the air. It's the atmosphere. Right. So a little, a little more than the 70% of the air we breathe. It's nitrogen. Right. As well. It's kind of expensive to buy nitrogen for, for fertilizer. Right. But those plants make an association with a bacteria named, uh, resalium or rhizobacteria. They have the power to take this, uh, nitrogen from the atmosphere, from the air and fix it into the soil and provide it and provide to the plants. So with this family of plants, they, they, that make this kind of association with the bacteria in the roots. And if you take out of the soil, one of those plants, you will notice they have this kind of tumors. Right. And if you cut this, uh, in, it is in this kind of, of color around a rose color or something like this, that is that, that, that's indicate that the bacterias are fixing that nitrogen. Okay. So that's the reason why bacterias in soil have the power to fix that nitrogen. And it is really, really helpful. Okay. But if you want to know, if you need to keep providing the plant with more fertilizer, the way you don't, it is, there are many, uh, there are many research done in this way. And you can say, oh, okay, I will use, uh, sun hemp. How much nitrogen sun hemp can, can, uh, provide to my, to my, to my farm or my area. If I, I don't know if I plant an acre. So there are some densities of, of planting of the cover crop that say in the, in the, uh, I will share some, some, some of those examples with, with you too, uh, of how much of the nitrogen that plants can fix. Then you need to analyze how much of nitrogen your, your crop needs. And if this, any kind of difference you can provide using other, other kind of fertilizer, using compost, using, uh, synthetic fertilizer the way you want. But sometimes those cover crops are capable to provide all the nitrogen that crop will need. If you are using this to provide nitrogen to the, to, to your crop. So you plant them when they start to produce the, uh, the bud, uh, the bud of the flower. It is the time that they have the maximum amounts of nitrogen in their bodies. And that it is the time to cut them, shop them and integrate to the matrix of, of soil to incorporate to the matrix of the soil. Okay. Just to, to let you know. So in the way that is well, and the reason of bacteria, they are soil born in, they are in, in a healthy soil. You will find reason of bacteria. Just when those plants are present there is when they show up and make that, that, um, association and start to fix the soil, uh, my, my, start to fix the nitrogen to the soil. Okay. So to end our conversation for today, and I know I mentioned this, uh, last time we will talk about the, um, the prevention in the soil of erosion. And we, uh, two, two, two base are the contouring of water. So I include those photos here because last time I know that, that, uh, farms, uh, someone mentioned that in Bahamas, uh, all the farms are flats, but no matter how flat it is, it is your farm, uh, it's could be prone to erosion. So no matter if you farm, just have a three percentage of decline. So if you can make the, uh, your crops in, in contour, that will help you. And if you don't want to make it this, uh, I highly advise you to, uh, to implement a system of ditches to help the water run out of the farmland. And that's will help you and prevent you to have any kind of problem because of excess of excess of water in your crops. Okay. So now I asked Pamela to stop sharing their screen. I will share you. And that is the reason, uh, I mentioned this because I will show you now, uh, in which way you can make, uh, tools, uh, or homemade tools, identify or mark the, uh, the right, uh, way and the inclination of your contour lines or, or the system of ditches. Okay. So I will share this presentation. It is on the Spanish. I just want to, uh, to you to see the pictures of the, of those tools. Okay. And I will send, I will translate the instruction. If you want to make it by yourself and use those tools. Okay. This present that, that the next, uh, slides that you will see are not mine. They were, uh, developed by, uh, a guy who works for NRCS in Puerto Rico for more than 30 years. He retired past year. And, uh, you know, that's his work has been really, really grateful because he promote this kind of, of practices, uh, in Puerto Rico. And it's been really helpful. Okay. Uh, well, I want to share with you, uh, to. To just to try to use it in, in, in your locations and, and have the same advantage that we have here. Okay. So I'll let share my screen here. One second. Okay. Let's see. Okay. Pam, are, are you seeing my screen? Yes, we are. Thank you. Okay. So just to let you know, so that, uh, right here, it is a picture of, of, of a farm in, in Puerto Rico. So if you look, those lines are, uh, Hillside dishes is the name of, of those kinds of, of, of practice there. I just want you to see at the bottom image of the screen. Okay. So just to let you know, uh, when we are implementing practices of, to, to control, uh, uh, the, uh, the erosion of the soils, it is highly recommend for each diameter in deep in our slope to make, uh, the lines of, of those barriers. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. And if your inclination is more, uh, it's more intense. So the, the lines of, of, of erosion control will be more close. So if you're, if you're, if you're declining of, of the slope, it's not so heavy. Okay. So the lines will be a little farther. Okay. So in which way I come up, see, by the way, that picture, it's from, from sand craigs. Okay. Did it, those are some, some, uh, erosion barriers making with Moringa. But anyway, so they, they are some sophisticated, uh, tools that you can, you can buy to, to make, to, to make this kind of practices. But with less than $20, you can produce some ones that will help you. And they are really useful as well. Uh, they, they can, the results are comparable to the, to the, to the ones that you have with those expensive tools. Okay. The first one I want to share with you is the T-stick. Okay. And the T-stick, it's the one that, that, uh, women have in the hand will help you to determine the distance between your, your, uh, erosion barriers or your hillside, um, ditches. Okay. So it's, you, you just, just want to have to do it. It is to construct this. You can make it using wood, but as well with, with, uh, PVC pipe of around, uh, half inches of diameter. And the height of this will be around a meter of height because that will help you to determine the distance between the barriers. Okay. So each barrier should be at a distance of one meter of, uh, of depth. Okay. Okay. Okay. So what you do, uh, is you put in the top part of this tool, you, uh, put an, uh, uh, uh, a carpenter level or, or bubble level. So when to, to indicate to you that you are holding this at level zero. Okay. What you done with, what you do with this, it is when you start to work in the slope, you, you say, ah, I will start to work here. And right here will be my first, uh, erosion control barrier or my first, uh, hillside ditch. So how far the next one will be. So you mark the first one point, the first point, then you start to go far from this point. And when you can see the bottom part of that point through the, through the, through the artistic and the level, it is, uh, when the bubble is at the level, that's indicate you that is, it is, um, uh, at the right distance. Okay. Okay. Sounds kind of tricky, but it's really easy to use. The other thing and a tool that in, in my personal case changed a lot for me, it is this one in name in Spanish. We named this the caballete, but, uh, I didn't find the right translation to the English. So in the way I will call this will be a soil level. Okay. So it is a really basic, uh, tool. And what you don't, what you do, it is with, you can build it with PVC or even with wood. If you build it with wood, it's would be kind of heavier. And, you know, it's more easier to work in, on PVC. So what you don't, it is you take, uh, uh, PVC pipe, you cut in three parts and you put the bubble level in the very center of the bridge. The bridge, it is the, the transversal part. Right. Right. So as you see here, so puente means bridge. Okay. So how long it would be, uh, you, you build it. So the, the, the, the, the, the length that you will use is, is the one that worked for you. So the, uh, the standard length I use it that I built mine once are six feet. Okay. Okay. Or around two meters. Okay. So each of the legs of this have to be at the same, uh, have to be the same height. Okay. And if it's, it's mentioned a hundred, uh, inches. Okay. Okay. So in the very, in the center of the, of the bridge, you will put the, the level and that's will indicate you. Okay. Your lines, your contour at the level zero, if you want to make some inclinations or, or, or, or to, uh, to, to more, to, if you will use this to design your, your dishes and you need to have some, uh, inclination, uh, within the, the ditch to the run of water. So what you will do, it is that one of the legs will be shorter. For example, if your bridge, it's from a hundred inches length, you will have one of your legs, three inches, uh, smaller than the other one. For example, if one of you, if your legs are 30, 36 inches, each one. So your bridge is, it's a hundred. So you will cut three inches from one of the legs to be shorter. And you will be, uh, using this to, uh, to give the right level of 3% of your, of your dish securing that the water will run in the, in, uh, in the way you want. Okay. Uh, if your bridge, it's 50 inches, the leg will be just cut just one and a half inches lower than the other leg, because it is the percent that you want to have it for decline. That would be proportional to the, you will estimate this, uh, using the, the, the length of the bridge. Okay. So the 3% of the, of your, of the length of your bridge or 2% or the 1.5, I recommend that, that for, for, for, uh, the decline within the dishes to use around, uh, 1.5% of decline to, to 3%. Okay. No more than this. Uh, because as more declining, you build that, uh, that dish. So the water will, will run more fast and, and kind of road the ditch too. Okay. But if you want to make infiltration ditches, the level of the ditch will need to be zero. Okay.