SOIL HEALTH IN ORGANIC FARMING
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qDfTkCRDNn4
People & Blogs
 Hi guys, welcome back to Khao Healthies YouTube channel. This is Nilambari and today we will be talking about soil health when it comes to organic farming. Organic farming has a lot of validation to be considered and health of the soil is a very important aspect. Before we move ahead, we upload content related to organic food, farming and health every week. So make sure to subscribe to our channel, like and comment down below your thoughts and share it with your friends and family. So coming back to soil. Soil is a non-venewable resource and 95% of our food supply depends on soil. Soil will always be a sturdy base of every organic farm but our understanding of it is continuously changing. Thanks to the work of scientists around the world, new information is showing us how and why regenerative organic agriculture leads to number one healthy soil, number two healthy people and number three and most important a healthy planet. Here is a recent finding of soil done by scientists which shows that soil rich in organic matter holds more air and water and produces higher yields than soil with lower organic matter. This soil which is rich in organic matter also supplies a steady release of nutrients to the plants, inhibit erosion and host a robust population of beneficial microorganisms. Soil organic matter is a storehouse of several plant nutrients including nitrogen, phosphorus and sulfur. To be used by plants, nutrients in organic matter must be converted to an inorganic form through decomposition and mineralization by soil organisms. Now moving ahead, soil organisms form a food web that decomposes organic matter and releases nutrients in the process. At the base of this food web are bacteria and fungi which obtain energy by decomposing soil, organic matter and plants. directly. Protozoa and some nematodes are organisms that graze on bacteria and fungi releasing nitrogen that can be utilized by plants. Now moving ahead, there are some larger organisms in this soil-proof web. For example, some small arthropods, some barely visible to unaided plant, help to mediate the decomposition of your plant and other organic matter. There are some common insects as well that play an active role in decomposition in agricultural systems. Now let us look at a couple of ways that we can use to improve soil health for organic matter. Number one is increase the diversity. The plant community directly impacts the soil's biological community. The plant community is food source for soil biology. Different crops offer a change for food source and type. Crop diversity and cover crops of various species will offer a biological profit and will improve soil health drastically. Number two is to decrease disturbance of soil. Extensive extensive tillage is detrimental to soil soil. When soil is till, the biological community is flipped upside down. Four channels are broken and organic matter is lost. That's why no till option will tremendously improve soil health. And number three is maintain a soil cover. The purpose of the soil cover is not just to prevent soil erosion. The soil microbes that live in the residue at the soil surface convert it into organic matter and nutrients over a long period of time which will help in the betterment and improvement of the health of the soil. So that's it for this video guys. I hope you found this video very informative and useful. For more of such content do not forget to like, share and subscribe to Khao Healthies YouTube channel. Khao Healthies YouTube channel and also do check out our Instagram page, our LinkedIn page and our Twitter page as well. We also have content on Facebook so do make sure to check it out and thank you. I will see you in the next one.