Farm Tractor Tire Repair at Home
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qf-igYEDohs
Howto & Style
 well we're fixing today today is a day we work on the tractor it's been freaking years because i've been just you know sometimes you get frustrated with things and you don't find a way out until you decide you need a way out now this trailer here i need out by the end of the september or so i need that and the tractor is in front of it and the tractor tire here is flat so i need to fix this so i can move this and get that we're also going to have to fix some bumper hitch stuff so more to come today we're going to work on the tire and the tire is look at that mama is it alive nope not alive okay that's good it might be some murder hornet's in here somewhere i don't know but this is a what is the size yeah size is right there 13.6 by 28 tire and the rim that goes all the way around i have to pop it off because you look around here there's some rot but if you look what is it here there's a hole and this hole has rubbed the tube so i need to push this back get the tube out replace it and then over the top of this wherever it's sharp i need to do something to make sure it's not sharp it doesn't actually have to be sealed it just has to be not sharp so that's what we're going to work on today i have tried removing the bolts and then i was thinking like okay i remove the bolts and then i take it off the rim but i'm like what in the hell i don't know you see people online beating on these with sledgehammers as hard as i can but uh i found something online it's an amazon product so we'll see if it works it's supposed to be able to take these off the rim and i don't have to do a lot of taking off the rim kind of thing i just have to get it somewhat off the rim just the front part really so i can reach in here so it is currently jacked up or at least on jack stands and a block of wood under there so i gotta raise it up some more because it has sunk into the ground so we're going to raise it up get this wheel so it spins use the magic tool to try to pop this out and if we get past that then we're going to start fixing it and putting it back together so let's try that all right this is the thing i bought and yes i bought it from the warehouse because that's why i buy almost everything i need to open it up and see what size wrench i need for this all right these are the directions they have a big caution on it i wonder what it says this is the thing all i have is a silver socket that size and then the impact socket i'm going to be putting the impact on it so let's see how that goes now we've got to jack this up i jacked it up from here before this is the bucket so peeling so19 cheers quotes stay  docs v Okay... I'm requesting... thousand pounds this is half of it here here we'll find some other jack stands for that to the right please here here here here here here here here here here here here here here here here here here here here here here here here here here here here here here here here here here here here here here here here here here here here here here here here here here Okay, there are ways to tighten up on this one. Should pull it in further. It seems to stop. Then you pull on this. And for this, I have good old trusty. Yep, and it's a silver socket on an impact. Sorry. It's over. all right we're gonna move it now ah that's exciting thank you bhor i know there was a pin in there i thought there was a pin in it so on the first use i have the first failure i either sheared that pin or it just fell out just fell out here it is was So what happened was this pin here fell out. Not that it wasn't fixable, but why should it be happening? So easy for us to find another pin here. Suppose you turn me around slower than me. Let's go. And there it is. It's off. It's off. It's off. It's off. It's off. It's off. It's off. It's off. It's off. It's off. It's off. It's off. It's off. It's off. It's off. It's off. It's off. It's off. And it's off. I'll set the ground. I'm going to set the ground. So it's off. Can I go higher now? Okay. And I looked as I was coming out and I saw the hole. All these chunks of shit were in there before. Here's the hole. This is right where the hole was. So this kind of blistered out and just blew. Now how do I clean this up? Because there is a ton of shit in there. I'm going to have to pop the other one loose. I don't see a way around it. So I guess let's go. I'm going to have to go. I'm going to have to go. I'm going to have to go. I'm going to have to go. I'm going to have to go. I'm going to have to go. I'm going to have to go. I'm going to have to go. go. I'm going to have to go. go. I'm going to have to go. Oh, well that was easier than the other side, eh? One grab. This is because many people can't prejudiced. Discount! namely Dusuk matrix dem bob palm Two cotton videos about two cottonze-free cotton original products We can carbs onto Those cotton ingenuity Matto 3-0 on the overlap Futures like a begin for 2 months Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Okay. Off. Look how much shit was inside there. All parts of the rim. That's all gotta be cleaned out. This has got three holes in it. I'm gonna take the rest of this off and who knows I might find some more. Wire brush this up. Try to treat it. I'm gonna paint it. Might be another hole in it there. I'm gonna do all that offline. I'm gonna show you what we're gonna do about these. This right here is where it pulled through and two broke. So, as you can tell here, I've given it the Earl Scheib rehabilitation. I got three holes. I got a little hole there. I don't know if you can see it. Right there. So, I've cleaned it as best as I could. Washed it with some solvent. Painted it with a brown rusty primer. Painted it with a white primer. And painted it with orange. Now, if it's painted with orange and it's all its chalmers, you know it's gotta be good. So, that's all it needs. I have then, in the house, I've got Gorilla Tape Weather Patch. This stuff is sticky. And why I'm using this is not to seal air at all. It's just to keep water from getting back and rusting this out some more. As much as possible. This stuff is sticky, sticky. There's a chunk. Let's use this one here. Hey. Hey. Hey. Alright. Alright. Let's see. Here we go. This hole. This hole. This hole. OK. So we got this. We got this. We got this. Okay, so we got this. We got this. I have to try to hold it down somehow. So I think I'm just going to go find some duct tape. Tape the edges. Once the tube's in here, this certainly isn't going to move. I just, when I put the tube in and the tire in and all that, I've got to keep this down where it belongs. Well, I got a battery in the phone. So, I don't know where you left off. But what I did was I put down some Gorilla Seal Tape to make sure that the holes don't leak water back up. I laid down a piece of sheet aluminum. And I taped that down to make sure that the tube doesn't bolt through. And now we have to create a new pole for the off-stem to come out. Now we're going to get a rustle on one side of the tire. See? question!" ah it's on but my foot's stuck okay on now the tube has to go on let me try to stuff this in there best I can not getting it pinched pepe oh Hey man! Wooooohh! Looks like I was able to stretch it around there. Now maybe add a little air to make sure it doesn't finish, make sure it's laying correctly. Ok now it's got a little bit of a shape. I'm going to go ahead and put a little bit of a knife on it. I'm going to go ahead and put a little bit of a knife on it. I'm going to go ahead and put a knife on it. Hey! It's on! Wow! That is so much not fun. Alright. Air chuck. Locking air chuck. This is kind of a dangerous air chuck. It's got a lock on it. You have to watch it. Check if it's on in the back. It is. I don't hear any air seeping out. It's on the back. Well. I think that's it. Well that's going to be the end of the day. It's getting late anyway. So this has 7.5 pounds of air in it. I'll come back in a couple of days and check it and make sure it's ok. If not then I've got to take it all apart again and fix the tube. I found on the other side it's still full of calcium chloride. So I can't really check that one to compare it. So that's happening. Anyway. Thanks for watching. Give me a like if you think you learned something. If you have any questions because I couldn't film it out really well. Let me know. I'll tell you how I wrestled this tire on. You kind of watch some of it but it was a problem. Take a look at what the patches look like. See one from the old pool. Behind there is the other one. So that Gorilla tape is sticking out there and I'm thinking about I might put some epoxy in the top. Just to fill it in and protect it a little more. But that's it for today. Next time we'll see what we can do about going for a tractor ride soon. Since it should be working. Until next time. Always make sure you know what tube you put in your tire. Bye. Bye.