Weekend Break: Sonny Acre Farms Pro Rodeo - WGN Weekend Morning News at 7
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QJAffOsWcao
Entertainment
 7 51 time for weekend break and we're checking in with Shannon Halligan. Hey Shannon, we're expecting you to get right the bowl. Yeah, right. Heard on that story. Shannon, get her done. Maybe maybe not a live ball, which you may hear in the background. I hear there might be a mechanical bull. We might be able to attempt that. But you know, there's lots of courses, plenty of things to do and see here. We're at Sunny Acres Farm this morning for the Big Hat Rodeo Pro Rodeo that is in town. We've got Lenora who is the owner of Big Hat Rodeo. And okay, so it's been a long time since I've been to a rodeo. What does a rodeo entail? So eight great contested events that are all World Championship points sanctioned. We have Cowboys and Cowgirls from all over the United States and Canada and they're all competing for the last two weekends for about $100,000 in prize money. Great livestock, terrific competition and in one of the most gorgeous rodeo settings you could ask for. And so tell us what we've got going on in this ring over here. Okay, so the arena is filled with some of the broken horses and they're all exercising this morning. They've all had their breakfast so they're doing a little exercise this morning. And tonight they'll all be in the bareback riding and saddle bronc riding. And so we are expecting some kind of warmer temperatures out this evening throughout the day. But what do you think for people who are you know, questioning if they should come out? Absolutely, it should cool down a little bit by evening. So we're very helpful for that. But actually a lot of people will just bring umbrellas or be very comfortably in cool clothing and they'll have a blast. It's two and a half hours. There's a great bar and music afterwards as well and lots of food and entertainment. So they'll have a great time. It's very family friendly. Yeah, nice breeze right now. So that's good. And then over here we've got some other animals that are ready to participate as well. Yes. So we've got calves and steers both for the steer wrestling event and the tie down roping. And as well as we've got steers over on the other side. And calves for the girls breakaway roping and for team roping. And then the big guys over there are all between 1500 and 2000 pounds. And those are the buck and bulls that will bring up the end of the rodeo. They look so nice and gentle. They are until you try to ride them. That makes all the difference. Yeah, well that's the big main event. Absolutely. Very exciting. So a big hat rodeo at Sunny Acres Farm. We will be here throughout the month. We will be here throughout the month. We will be here to the week and we will be here. That's the big event. Yeah, so we'll be here to the big hat rodeo at Sunny Acres Farm. We will be here throughout the month. We will be here at the the week and we will be here throughout the morning and we'll take you through some more of the action coming up on weekend break. We'll be back though after a quick break.