INTRODUCTION TO AGRIBUSINESS DEVELOPMENT CENTRE
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qjd63oNkgn4
Education
 we've had taken the action of agriculture for farmers to develop the seedッmine and width and ruin ذلك between turnt 14 the consideratee rather than capra entland equip the farmers with knowledge that is relevant for them to grow and be self-sustainable. First, we want to help them strengthen their organizational capacity in terms of the structures, which is related to governance and leadership. Then two, marketing. And not because there are no markets, but because the farmers really lack the relevant information and the relevant tools to access these markets. Then the third sub-theme about the program that we are doing is financial literacy. One of the big challenges that farmers face is one, for example, they get money from banks or financial institutions. At the end of the day, what do they do? They fail or they default? What happens to them? They don't grow. I'm learning a lot here because this training is a guide, a leader, to be a good leader. The important one is getting knowledge and skill so that when we go back, we put that skill or knowledge we get from here in work. We want to make sure that at the end of our program, the farmer groups that we work with, the farmers that we work with, can sustain themselves. Groups normally build better relationships with banks as opposed to the individuals. Groups normally build better Tall it is. Groups normally conduct up the record now here in New Zealand. It is not easy to be a farmer in this area. It is not easy to be farmer in this area. People just go for? It's very costly. We were a total poverty people. There was nothing in our hands, no goods, no chickens. We go for food in other people's gardens. And our children were not even going for schooling. The life was very difficult. There was no development of groups farming in this area at all. But now we have come as a group. There is a total change of life. I became a group leader in 2014. Then I started mobilizing. We are lobbying for the individual farmers to come and join the group. Now I'm feeling that I'm a successful farmer because of what is in my garden. I'm even proud that I've already left the grasshouse. I'm now in a good house. I'm proud now. I can make my own decision now. So many houses, so many machines for grinding materials. As a farmer, you should become a group or a cooperative so that we get a better price. That is what I learned from there. So I would say our end game in all this for Anam over the three years is to make sure that the farmer groups that we're working with are bankable. Because again, the reason why ADC started a fund is to make sure that farmers have access to finance, which is very core for their activities. My advice to them is please form these groups because that's the way we shall grow and develop as farmers.