Paddock set-up & contingency plans with Dawn Dalley Dairy NZ & Olivia Ross B+LNZ
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qNAFsAdmbUY
Science & Technology
 My name's Dawn Daly. I'm a senior scientist with DairyNZ based in Canterbury, but for the last 10 or so years have been involved in research projects around wintering and also farm system design in Southland and South Otago. And currently I'm leading the farm systems implementation at Southern Dairy Hub and a couple of projects relating to water beet feeding. So today in my session what I'm going to try to do is bring together some of the key messages that you've heard from Nick and Helen in relation to good management practice and animal welfare and talk about the importance of crop paddock setup and contingency plans for adverse weather. And partway through I'm going to flick over to Olivia and she's going to give us some perspective from a mixed livestock point of view. So next slide please. So why is it important that we have paddock grazing plans? Well first of all it helps to set wintering expectations and if you can do this with your team it means that everybody's on the same page and they know what success is going to look like for your farm. It also helps the team to understand the why that you do things in a particular way on your farm. So we know there's lots of different systems out there and everybody does things slightly differently. So understanding the why for your farm means that they'll be in a better position to make informed decisions if things are going off plan. Also by having individual paddock grazing plans you can identify and highlight the risks of specific paddocks. So if I think about the southern dairy hub we winter on both our upper terrace and also on our lower flats. We know that the soil type on our lower terrace or lower flats is heavier. We have a number of paddocks with critical source areas and also we have a waterway that runs through the middle. So those paddocks have quite different risks in terms of implementation of grazing compared with the ones on our upper terrace. The other thing with having these paddock grazing plans is that it allows you to discuss and plan for the adverse weather events. And think about some of those things that Helen's just highlighted in relation to animal welfare. And I guess the overall objective is really looking at maximising the chances of achieving your spring calving and lambing targets. So what I'm going to go through, next slide thanks Hamish. So what I'm going to go through is just the key factors to consider in the plan. And it's really bringing together the things that Nick and Helen have talked about into a concise form and sharing it with the team or developing it with the team. So all of what I'm going to talk about is in the recently released break-fed wintering resource. It's an update of our successful crop and pasture wintering material that's been out there previously. So in terms of the plan, thinking about your critical source areas and waterways, putting them in on your map. Then with that you can look at your grazing direction and how you can utilise any shelter. Where your bales are going to be placed, how you're going to manage your portable troughs and alongside the back fencing. And then also looking at what access points you've got to the paddock. And do you have specific access points for people, animals and vehicles. So we'll just move on and look at what the resources are that you need to develop this plan. So there's not actually a lot of resource required. Either a farm map or within the break-fed wintering guide, there are some resource templates that you can use if you don't have a farm map. You need some writing material, pens or pencils. The farm team and some dedicated time. So what you may choose to do is if you've got a number of paddocks on your farm and you've got a few on your team. Maybe give each member of the team a paddock to go away and do the initial plan for. And then come back as a group and decide or discuss what everybody's come up with. One of the things that we've found valuable at the Southern Dairy Hub is using Google Maps over our farm map. And from there we can pick up sometimes some more subtle critical source areas that we might need to deal with. They might not be wet when they're in grass, but potentially can be a challenge when they're in crop. So just get your farm team involved and start documenting how you're planning on grazing those paddocks. Next slide, thanks Hamish. The other thing with developing those paddock plans is thinking about how that fits with your adverse weather contingency plan. So Helen's highlighted some of these aspects already. So from the animal welfare perspective, the plan needs to consider access to shelter. So where have you got those opportunities? What does your lying surface look like? And also the access to feed. So and potentially having additional feed available for periods of adverse events. From an environmental perspective, we need to take into consideration your soil type. And what that looks like after two or three days of heavy rain and wet weather. Looking at any areas that may become larger risk in terms of runoff into surface waterways. And in particular, any flooding risk that there might be as well. And the third area for our contingency plan to consider is around people and safety. So having developed the plan, is everybody on board with it? And how easy is it to implement when that event may arise? How can you keep your people safe and being able to access the paddocks and the animals through that period of time? And for snow events, keeping particularly animals safe if we lose power during that event. So we'll just move on and look at some of the factors or things that you consider in terms of an adverse plan for cattle. So thanks, Hamish. So in terms of contingency plan for cattle, some of the options, well, initially, we need to think about in the feed budgeting process, having that additional feed on hand for that period of time. So recommendation is having an extra 10% there. Looking at options to increase the area available through that adverse event. So that might be by giving an extra break of crop. We need to be mindful with fodder beech. And depending on what the allocation level is, that that may not be a feasible option without risking animal health issues. However, there may be instances where actually taking your back fence further away from the crop phase may allow the animals to access some dry areas that they've already been through and give them more space to spread out and find those better areas. When you're developing your paddock grazing plan, looking at is there opportunity to save crop in a drier, lower risk part of the paddock? Maybe a week's worth of feed there that you can bring animals back to if necessary. Or, as I mentioned earlier, what we look at at the Southern Dairy Hub is the opportunity to bring animals off our heaviest soils onto drier, lower risk paddocks up on the upper terrace. If you're looking at out of paddock options, there might be opportunity to stand off in laneways or yards or some rough grass areas. But it's important to remember that cows don't particularly, or animals don't particularly like lying on hard concrete surfaces. So that's really a short term solution. And there are some, maybe opportunity to use some safe tree blocks. When I say safe tree blocks, probably not a good idea to have your pregnant animals in areas with marker carpa, but there might be some pine plantations you can use. So now I'm going to hand over to Olivia, who's going to go through what you might need to consider differently from a sheep perspective. Thanks for that Dawn. Yeah, some of those cattle options obviously guys can be used, but for other livestock, including sheep and deer, there might be some other options that you haven't thought of. And I'm just going to go through some of them for you to consider. So getting livestock to sheltered areas with water, you may be able to consider a grass runoff paddock when the weather is foul. And have other options like utilizing grain and sheet nuts while on those areas, if it's going to be for extended period of time to make sure you can maximize shelter. Again, you can use those lower risk dry paddocks as well. You might consider larger breaks or day breaks and I know a number of people are doing that now as well. From a deer perspective, deer require bigger breaks than cattle and some deer farmers have been giving deer the whole paddock rather than strip grazing, ensuring that that critical source area is well protected. The back fencing of deer can increase stress, which can result in fence pacing. So it's best to properly avoid that if possible. But each situation again is going to be different. Look at prioritizing your stock classes. So body condition scoring at scanning could be an option. Look at transferring lighter animals to grass and supplement. You could be looking at doing some of this now as well. If lambing dates are split, ensure that you feed stock based on their lambing and calving dates. And if you winter shear, and I'm sure I don't need to tell you, but the shearing increases feed demand and freshly shorn sheep are at higher risk in bad weather. So make sure that you're considering the use of cover combs to reduce that risk. Lifters may be needed as well, depending on the season. And reduce that risk by just shearing one full shed at a time and having a three day gap between, especially if that weather is really unpredictable. So that pretty much covers it there Dawn. So I'll just head back to you. Thanks for that Olivia. So just a few other factors to consider in terms of your adverse weather plan. Does all the team know when and how to implement that plan? That's really important if you're the, maybe the key decision maker and you're going to be off farm for a period of time. So having some clear triggers as to when that plan is enacted is really important. We need to consider the crop type that the animals are grazing as well. And can you keep feeding it during the adverse weather event? This is particularly important for fodder beet, where we know it's really important that animals are transitioned onto, onto the crop and have a consistent diet. So if you're pulling them off and they're off for more than a couple of days, then you might, you would need to have some retransitioning factored into your plan. Or an alternative might be to have some lifted fodder beet that you can give them in that out of paddock area. So they stay on that diet through that period. Thinking about the impact of a decreased feed utilization during those adverse events on intake. And how you're going to manage making sure that your animals are getting enough feed through that period of time. And as I've mentioned previously, thinking about your access in and out of paddocks for stock and people. If you do have to move your stock out and maybe the gateway is not looking the best, are there options to drop fences and move them out over a bigger area? We acknowledge that it's pretty difficult to completely mitigate the conditions. But by having a plan, you can definitely look at options to minimize the impact. So just in terms of finishing up, by having, sitting down, taking some time and developing these plans, it's a really great opportunity to set clear expectations around what success looks like for wintering on your property. By involving the team in the process, they can understand the why behind the activities and tasks that they're going out and doing on a daily basis. And why it might be different between paddocks on the property. I would encourage you to steal with pride any ideas from your farming colleagues. As Helen mentioned, people do have lots of really good ideas and are doing things differently. So just look, just talk to your neighbours and others and find out what they're doing, especially in terms of the adverse weather. And I guess really encourage that doing something is better than doing nothing and real value in that plan and everybody being on the same page at the start of winter. So I just want to finish off with a quote from Napoleon that says, plan your work and work your plan. So, how can we meet other concepts, the highly practical independent skills, work out species or waters, especially to be trained inulinized as they consider attending the park? So leave your system or your plan. On the of theásis 2020, you will need to evaluate who mill that we are involved in each meter.