Meet BINFRONT - Your Farm Storage Solution
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QnqizpCAs18
People & Blogs
 Well, the farm was home. It started a long time, 1879. And then they used to do dairy and all that stuff. And then in like the 50s and 60s, they got involved in seed potatoes. And then from there it grew to where we are at now, 2,500 acres. 50 different lots of potatoes that look like this. Pete Schrader from Schrader Brothers Farms in Antigua, Wisconsin. We grow seed potatoes for other growers, obviously. And I'm involved with my two brothers, John and Rob. And our sons are involved. We have Eric, Andy, my sons, J.D. and Luke. We grow 2,500 acres of seed potatoes. We're Frito-Lay growers. We grow, and a lot of it goes to Frito-Lay. And then otherwise, if it's a rust, it goes to central Wisconsin for what they do down there. And if it's a table stock, we will supply Walmarts and Costco's and stuff like that and other stores. There's been some pretty amazing technologies that have come along in the last 15 years between GPS for the tractors and GPS on the irrigation equipment and optical sorters in the grading shed. And everything's just kind of bigger and faster and more efficient from the bottom up. A lot of it is the same way. We still scoop with bobcats. The tractors are essentially the same concept on this farm, but they're just bigger and faster and more powerful or efficient. The tool was designed to make this what I call a bin front. And it's made in a Roro mold. Weighs 50 pounds. It's 4 feet wide, 42 inches tall. And it's made to hold the container of the potatoes. It helps hold, but it also, it's, well, it's lightweight compared to being made out of wood. It's easy to clean. You can pressure wash it and not have it be wood where it absorbs disease. And this you can wash off. They're a quarter inch thick of plastic and they're going to be durable. I think they'll last forever. I don't know how you can hurt them. First of all, we built a hundred of them out of wood, which is for, you know, whatever use we had it. And we knew that they work. And then after that, it's thought, well, there's expensive to make with wood and people. We've had this mold developed and then this is where we're at now when they work. And then I thought maybe I can market them. So here I am.