The Science of Soil Health: Going Deeper Part 2
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Qo6zvBBROL0
Science & Technology
 If as a farmer you want to access the moisture and nutrients below your legacy plough pan, what are your alternatives? And if you opt to take advantage of natural systems to open up the plough pan, does timing count? Let's get back with Dr. Ray Weil who will walk us through the process. And you can see that very dramatically sometimes where you had a cover crop and where you didn't because the cover crop is growing now in fall and this soil is all moist. You know, we're in the East Coast in a humid region and in that kind of region whenever you dig a hole eventually you're going to get moist soil even in the summer. Now if you're in Kansas or you know in dry parts of the world if you dig a hole deep enough you'll hit dry soil even if it's moist at the surface because you don't have this excess rainfall. But we do. And so we know there's moisture down there. Can the crops reach it? So one of the important things is being able to develop a soil structure in a kind of a permanent way that will allow this. And the traditional way to do this is with very big tractors pulling large shanks of steel through the soil trying to go about this deep and break up the plough pan that might exist. That sometimes actually determines how big a tractor a farmer needs to buy. So if you have to buy a bigger tractor to do that that's what determine it becomes a very expensive fuel intensive time intensive operation and we can let nature do it. Because the key is the soil is soft when it's wet and hard when it's dry. And so in the fall when there's not much evapotranspiration the soils are staying moist. We've got these cover crops growing through under these conditions they can push through. You can see these roots pushing on through. And they will make super highways that crop roots next summer when it's dry and hard will find these holes in these super highways and some that you can see some of them are too small to see. And they'll be able to access this huge storage tank of water and also nutrients. So that's one really important aspect that just to get the farmers to realize there's more to the plant into the soil than the top six or ten inches. Hopefully she talked about Pregs specifically as what they bars go with. We've got a lot ofしまies in these plates. dp and there's somecilia flaps. How does that? es interesant Are you them in the cost? Is you guys inChiefGorstảiwhat? I love them? Let's see you again again. See italy! Here then! Hey! It's this big bag Hi! Hot Ice Yellow burned For those вниз за Village Inch-sha Minute Turbo Toangen you