Sustainable Farming Practices Prepares Maassen Dairy for the Future
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qORAI3T0P6M
Education
 A year ago, February, February 27, my dad passed away, had cancer, and that was kind of a tough time. Dad was, to all of us and the other grandkids, was a great patriarch. The nickname kind of was everybody, he was Papa John. I think what I admired most about Dad was his stamina, his work ethic, his belief in God. Lee Mawson still gets a little choked up when he talks about his dad. He appreciates the sacrifices his father made to help build Mawson Dairy over five generations. The Mawson's understand what it takes to sustain a dairy farm. Sustainability to me is, with that kind of a heritage, what can I do to produce a good healthy environment for myself, my family, and also my next generation. Lee farms with his three sons, milking 1,200 cows and working 1,000 acres of crops near Morris, Iowa. The boys share their father's passion for sustainability. Sustainability to me is that it's going to be here for the next multiple generations. That when I'm done with it, it's not going to be worn out, wasted away, ready to be thrown away. We each have sons growing up into the farm also, both my brothers and I, and just give them the opportunity to be able to continue farming and just to feed the world. The Mawson's have backed up their words with real investment in sustainability, including this sophisticated lagoon system that captures the manure from the free stall barns and uses recycled water to separate the sand bedding for reuse in the barn. Then, filters the water further so the manure can be spread on the nearby farmland as an organic fertilizer. We basically want to do the best job we can using research, using technology, using different innovative things to make sure we're a good steward of our land and of our water quality. Sustainability to me means everyone on the farm enjoying what they do, continuing our values, and just the way we treat people, and caring for livestock and animals and what God's given us. I think if you're going to be sustainable, it has to be both right and work in the future. It has to work on both ends. It has to work for the animal, it has to work for us, and it has to be right for the consumer. The Mawson's are excited about continuing their efforts and hope consumers will join them in working together towards a sustainable future. I'd say sustainability looks like a partnership between both me as a dairy farmer and the person that's buying the products out of the store. It's about conserving the products that we have and just not being wasteful with the things that we have. And some consumers are eager to join in the partnership. I'm really interested in foods that have been raised responsibly without polluting the groundwater. I have a certain confidence with the people that produce the foods. I know how much they care about the land and what they produce. They take pride in it. Feeding little McKenna Mawson and future generations is really what sustainability is all about. The Mawson's and their fellow dairy farmers are finding ways to do that and still care for their cows, the environment, and their communities. I internally ask that question a lot, why all three of my sons wanted to come back to the farm. I think the reason that they have because I think they've seen in their parents and in their grandparents, it's a family lifestyle that they enjoy. We'd like to be involved with something that's also not for today but for tomorrow and for the future. That's exciting. vìm