Grain Silo Tiny House! - 460sqft Airbnb Tiny Home Tour!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QOvzwJakW3M
Entertainment
 A 430 square foot grain silo converted to a tiny house. Let's go check it out. Today we are here at Clark Farm Silos in Kalispell, Montana. This is my last stop in Montana for this trip and these silos are really cool. There's five of them total here on this farm property with beautiful views of the mountains and barns and the farm all around us. It is a really cool area and we're pretty close to Kalispell. In this video we try out $70 bison rib steak, $5 pizza, and Glacier National Park. It's all really cool and of course the tiny house. So this is definitely new. I know these people in these silos can see me do this. It's like a live audience. You'll go park your car back at the parking lot. You'll walk past this area. There's like a little booth. They sell some beef. They have a grill out here and some merchandise. Nice cute little area. Then you'll walk down the path to your silo. This looks exactly like grain silo. The metal exterior, they put some windows out here on the front. This bottom one has your doors, French doors, and then the top is this huge window that's up in your loft area for your bedroom for great views. So really cool looking on the outside. I had the middle one, number three, and this one sticks out in the front. So one, three, and five are the ones in the front. Two and four are the ones kind of in the back. So I think one, three, and five are the better ones with a better view. Unique space. You don't see too many grain silos converted into tiny houses. We featured a couple in this channel before. This one I believe is the smallest one. Definitely a tiny house. Round interior is really interesting to work with. So let's head inside and see how they did it. Walking inside this bottom level is your living room, kitchen, and your bathroom. They packed it all right here and at about 430 square feet of living space, I'm guessing the diameter of the circle is between 17 to 20 feet. So not a lot of space to pack three whole rooms. You can see going from left to right, we have the stairs that wind up to the loft. They look really cool. Wood treads with the metal poles. I really like this look. Keeps the space open. And then under this is your living room area in quotations. It's really just a couch and this couch can convert into a second bed if needed very easily. They leave some camping supplies here next to this which is something we don't see too often. Umbrella, flashlights, grilling supplies. Very cool. If we look up, the floor for the loft is exposed and we get this really cool wood feature for our ceiling and you can hide some lights up here for the kitchen in the living room space. There is also this cool topographical map of where we're located here so you can see where we're at. You can see the Glacier National Park, all the towns here, and the mountains are all raised up. So that is a cool little map to have in this Airbnb. And then this all faces your kitchen. Now the kitchen is not rounded up against the wall. They built this off of the bathroom space. So all up against this flat wall, we have everything you need on the right side. There's a couple chairs here. Dining chairs if you need to sit here and eat your food. A lot of countertop space for this tiny house right here. Floating shelves, sink in the middle. There's a mini fridge over on this left side. And then up on these floating shelves above, we have all of your cooking supplies, your coffee supplies. There is a two burner stovetop up here we can plug into the wall if needed, and a microwave. It looks like there's some storage underneath the microwave, but there isn't. This does not open. So all the storage below this is open. And this is the kitchen space. Everything you need for a couple days stay to enjoy your time. We'll be checking out some food in town later, so we're not going to be doing any cooking here right now. But behind all this is the bathroom space. Walk in here, you can see the wall curves around on this side. And the left side has a very, very small vanity. There's shelves and your towels hung up all along this wall, your toilet, and then your shower space. This shower does look pretty small, but whenever I walk inside, there is plenty of room for me. The shower glass door is like a bi-fold door, and it's really easy to open and maneuver around the toilet space. So this is the shower, pretty unique shape, and the whole bathroom is unique shape all together. Walking down to that, there's a TV next to this bathroom if needed. You probably won't be using it very much. Let's walk up the stairs now and check out the loft. I really like how these stairs go along the shape of the silo, and we enter into your loft space. This is my favorite area. Very beautiful up here. The wood floors, the bed here in the middle, and then the metal railing that overlooks into your huge square window with the beautiful view. Everything up here is very spacious and roomy compared to down below, which who doesn't like a spacious and roomy bedroom. King size bed here in the middle. There is a fan up above, and I'm really liking the wood design of the ceiling up here. It's all cone shape for the silo, and it's just a beautiful feature to have in your bedroom. And then there is AC under this window and a small chair up here to use to get ready at. And this is your comfy bedroom. You can, of course, with the push of a button, close the blind for this window at night and have a really awesome night's sleep up here. Now, it was raining a lot whenever I was staying here, so I didn't really get to enjoy the outside of this area that much. Let's head to Glacier National Park. Just a short drive away, one of the most beautiful national parks in America. You have to take advantage of that while you're staying here. I went here, explored some of the lakes. This is Lake McDonald. It's so large, you can rent boats. You can see all the people enjoying their time here. Get inside and swim. The fruity pebble-looking rocks is really cool. There's waterfalls. There's mountains. Now, let's move on to some food. Pizza review. Since it's raining, we're going to be doing some indoor activities, trying out the local food. Bringing the reviews back, we got pizza. I was originally going to Burger Town to Dairy Freeze, but they were closed. Worker Appreciation Day, the one day I'm here. They have a half-pound burger that's like seven bucks. That's how much like a whole pound of raw beef costs at the store, and they're giving you a burger and fries for that price. I was really excited. But right next door was Rosa's Pizza, which I thought was good. Now, I am gluten-free, so I am sacrificing my bowels for this review, because they don't have gluten-free pizza. Guess how much this costs? Five dollars cash. No tax. I just handed them a five dollar bill, and that's what I got. That was crazy. Let's see what the pizza looks like. Hey, what gives? I did that in the car. I couldn't wait. I already had a bite, and it's amazing. Five dollar pizza. I mean, that's cheaper than a gumball at the movie theater. I mean, I truthfully give this a 10 out of 10. Here's a picture of me excited about my five dollar pizza. Now, let's go to the opposite side of the spectrum from five dollar pizza to $70 bone-in bison ribeye. We're here at Mercantile Steak, 15 minutes away. Very beautiful setting inside, with the booths and the bar. I got to sit at the bar because I was just by myself, and that's where they seated me, and I got the bison bone-in ribeye for $70. This is what we got on the plate. It looks like I should be getting a little bit more for $70, but this is what it was, and it was delicious. Nine out of ten. The pizza was 10 out of 10 because it was five bucks. This was the most expensive item on their menu. That's why I got it to try it out. Very cool experience. And those are some of the food options here in Kalispell, Montana. If you're here at the Clark Farm Silo, you have to check them out. The link to book this place is down in the description below. You want to check out yourself. There are five here total. There should be some dates available whenever you want to come stay. If you're planning on flying, Glacier Park International Airport is only 28 minutes away from here. Kalispell is only 18 minutes away if you decide to drive, and the National Park is only 32 minutes away. So all very close to this location. Anyway, thank you guys for watching this video. I'll see you next week in another state in another Airbnb tour.