Development and implementation of digital technology in agriculture
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QOWDKQz3P6U
News & Politics
 Good morning. Thank you very much everyone for coming today and being part of this exciting event. I'd like to start off by honouring the sacredness and importance of this land and of the ancestors that once walked where we are standing today. The Anish-Inuwak, the Cree, the Dene, the Dakota, the Métis, the Inuit and the Anishinaabe Nations. They paved the way to what is now known as Manitoba, home to all treaty people. I share this information with you as a reminder of our treaty histories and the original homelands of these nations which have become home to all of us here today. I am pleased to be joined by Premier Canoe, Minister Kostitian, Rick Rutherford, Leanne Carossel, Emily Lawden and Ray Bouchard this morning. For Emily, it's been a very exciting journey to get to this point. Emily was founded in 2016 by business and academic leaders with the common goal of growing digital agriculture economy in the Canadian prairies. Since then, we've collaborated with hundreds of partners to help accelerate Canada's growth as a leader in digital agriculture. Along the way, we've been dedicated and intentional to focus our work here in Manitoba and for good reason. Our province and agriculture sector are home to a wealth of expertise, talent, creativity and ambition. Agriculture is a pillar of both our economy and the identity of our communities. Agriculture is also poised to play an even bigger role in our province going forward as it will be central to how Manitoba creates and adopts new technologies within the digital economy that can boost the productivity and sustainability of the entire agri-food value chain. We're thrilled to be able to contribute to that process right here at Innovation Farms powered by Ag Expert. Founded two years ago in partnership with Rutherford Farms, the site is dedicated to demonstrating and validating real-world digital agriculture solutions that will give Canadian producers the edge in a quickly changing industry. Support from industry leaders such as Prairie Scan, Rutherford Farms, MacDon, Farm Credit Canada, Ag Expert, Enns Brothers and others has been vital. It has allowed us to help startups prove out their technologies, provide academics with hands-on research and development support and foster collaboration between farmers, agronomists, tech developers, teachers and students. Support from Manitoba agriculture has made the difference for us and their multi-year support over the years has made it possible for us to be impactful and to test and prove out technologies over multiple growing seasons. Earlier this year, Premier Canoo welcomed guests to Ag Days in Brandon by saying agricultural producers across Manitoba are the backbone of our province, not only in feeding Manitobans and people from around the world, but in growing our economy. We couldn't agree more. And that is why we're honoured to have both the Premier and Minister of Agriculture here today to announce a new agreement between Emily and the province to help us expand our work on innovation farms for years to come. With that, I'd like to invite Premier Canoo up to the microphone to say a few words. Great. Thank you so much. All right. Well, I want to start by thanking Jacqueline, first of all, for all the good work that you do and for hosting us here today. But Jacqueline is also a member of the Premier's Business and Jobs Council, as we call it PB&J. So she's a big help for us in a lot of ways. I wanted to begin my comments today with a note of maybe solemnity. I wanted to just send our best to the people of Alberta and Jasper right now. I think many of us have visited this community. All of us have friends and family in this prairie neighbour province of ours. And it's a well-known community across Canada. And I think the images that all of us saw over the past 24 hours have been very heart-wrenching. And so we send the people of Jasper and all across Alberta our best. And Manitoba, as always, will be there to support. Similarly, we have communities in northern Manitoba who are evacuated and are feeling the threat of wildfire. And so I want to also indicate our support and the ongoing engagement that we have for the people of Lynn Lake and the Marcel Cologne First Nation right now. We are, of course, working, you know, around the clock with our EMO and wildfire service to ensure that Manitobans are kept safe and that in tough situations like that, that we are supporting people as they find their way to safety. So today we're here outside on a beautiful prairie summer day to celebrate some good news. Along with the Government of Canada, we're investing two million dollars in Emily's Innovation Farms project. With this funding, we can use artificial intelligence and machine learning to harvest new data. We can use that to inform farm practices going forward. And with tech, like this, we are going to be able to grow the economy, boost yields, increase sustainability, and do so many great things for not just the ag industry and not just Manitoba, but really the entire world. Our team has long stated that ag is the backbone of our provincial economy. At the same time, we all know that AI is changing the world, that digital technology continues to move forward at a relentless pace. And I think for us to make a smart, responsible bet on the future of our economy, it's maybe a little bit less about us trying to create the next chat GPT here in Manitoba. And it's more about us figuring out how to apply the techniques of AI and digital technology to areas where we're already leading, like in agriculture, like in value-added manufacturing. And to me, that's what the good work of Emily and Innovation Farms represents. And so our whole team is so happy to be here today to help and make an investment in this important part of our economic future and really the social and cultural fabric of Manitoba as well. So we know that there are going to be a lot of challenges that we have to work through in the coming years. The renegotiation review, potential renegotiation, I should say, of the KUSMA deal with the United States of America is a very important priority for our province. It's a very important priority for the ag sector. We know that climate change and the responsibility to move forward on sustainability is also another really important priority. And the best way for us to do that is to make investments like this so that it's affordable and it's easy for ag producers to make those investments in long-term sustainability. Our view as a provincial government is that we have to use the carrot rather than the stick when we want to talk about sustainability and the environment. And so when we think about these longer-term strategies and strategic potential that we're grappling with here in the province of Manitoba, an investment like this, it makes total sense. This is the application of technology to help us meet the needs of our most important trading partner south of the border as well as our other export markets around the world. This is an application of technology that's going to make that environmental choice in the next investment that an ag producer is making more feasible, more reliable, and more affordable, quite importantly. And so when we're sitting around, you know, the table, projects like this are an easy yes. And so I want to acknowledge Emily and all the partners here today for the good work that you've been doing so far. Shout out to our Minister of Agriculture, Ron Kostishan, for being a champion of investments like this. And once again, just a sincere thank you to everyone across the ag producing regions of our province who are hard at work today for all the good work that you do. We're a partner for you. We're investing in our shared future and we really want to see good things to continue to flourish here in Manitoba for the long term. So with that, merci, miigwetch, thank you very much. Thank you very much, Premier, for that very exciting announcement. We're really grateful to the province for your support here at Innovation Farms. I'd also like to call up Minister Kostishan to the microphone. Prior to entering political office, the minister worked on his family farm northwest of Dauphin for 26 years. So if anyone can attest to how farming has changed, I'm sure that it's the minister. Well, good morning, everyone, and it's truly a pleasure to be here today and a great opportunity to brag about the greatness of agriculture in our province, but in the world. Before I get into my speech, I just want to first and foremost thank all agriculture producers for the work they do and provide economic spin-off and opportunities for us and more importantly the food that's produced from the farmers' hard work and challenges they face in the world, sometimes because of Mother Nature. But it's truly a pleasure to be here and have an opportunity to congratulate Emily for today's funding announcement. It is the opportunity to have events such as this and working with great partners such as Emily is that it's a pilot project, but we learn a lot from it. Working with universities and working with Emily is a number of opportunities that we see as far as forwarding agriculture in a positive matter. There's no doubt we're in a digital age and it's the AA that's going to keep coming in parts of agriculture. I often say this, the drone to me has become the MRI machine of agriculture. Who would have ever thought 20 years ago, 10 years ago, that type of technology is becoming so important in our modern agriculture industry. And it becomes with a benefit because it's able to detect diseases, able to detect a number of other areas where it saves producers a chance of their investment in drones. So new technology is a driving force in innovation and is helping the next generation of producers. New technology also is a drawing to talented people from the fields outside of agriculture. Our province needs to stay on the cutting edge and we need to bring talented people to work in agriculture. Emily, work is very important and I want to congratulate them on the opening of the Innovation Farm Center. Our province is pleased to support them in their innovation and I definitely look forward to continuing our work. I often say this to a number of organizations, communication is the best medication moving forward. Because we need all to work together for the betterment for the population in the world, to the people in the province of Manitoba, and to the government of Manitoba, and to organizations such as this today, Emily's organization. So, again, thank you Emily, and we all are stakeholders and let's raise up agriculture and agri-food in Manitoba. So thank you for your time and it's a great pleasure to be here on behalf of the province of Manitoba and your agriculture minister. Thank you so much. Thanks very much, Minister. Finally, I'd like to introduce Emily's board chair, Ray Bouchard. Ray is the CEO of Enns Brothers and has played a major part in Emily's founding and where we are today, making the vision of Innovation Farms a reality. Thank you, Jacqueline. Thank you, Premier Canu and Minister Castician for the generous support you've offered us to continue the vital work that we're doing here on behalf of all Manitobans. Farmers here in our province and across the prairies are witnessing the ag sector undergo rapid technological change. These technologies, and others like them, have huge potential to increase ag productivity and sustainability, and they are relevant to farm operations both big and small. But they also come with their own set of challenges. For farmers, it can be daunting to navigate how new, and sometimes costly, digital tools can apply to their very own unique circumstances. Producers already take on major financial risk each growing season and only have a limited number of harvests in their career. Any disruption to a farm's operation may hurt yields and undermine livelihoods. Therefore, Innovation Farms has always sought to bring together tech entrepreneurs and farmers to make sure that with any new ag technology, there is a return on investment for the farmer and a viable business model for the tech entrepreneur. The ability for both groups to learn first-hand from each other about what's important to them is invaluable. Giving the data scientists and the software developers opportunities to hear directly from the farmer helps them understand how producers would use the technology and what they need most. This has allowed the technology developers to be hyper-focused on features that are most important and cost-effective for the farmer, and devised solutions for the unique geography and growing conditions that we have right here in the province of Manitoba. By creating a vibrant ecosystem that is focused on testing, validating, and demonstrating new digital ag technologies, we can de-risk the adoption of digital technologies for individual growers while also speeding up the development and the adoption of these same tools. Through collaboration, data sharing, education, communication, Minister, we can solve the unique challenges that producers across the region are facing by giving farmers increased confidence in the capabilities of emerging technologies prior to adopting them on their farms. As Emily's partner, Rick Rutherford, has said before, new innovations are providing a vast amount of new insight that allows ag operations to be more productive. But the most important question for farmers is, will this technology work on my farm? That is the question Emily is working to answer here on Innovation Farms, while actively sharing what we're learning from the variety of groups we are working with. This ranges from the producers, tech developers, start-ups, students, researchers, government policy makers at both the federal and federal and provincial levels. And these results already speak for themselves. Take just one example from Innovation Farms. Gecko Predictive Weed Control. When they began working with us last year, their product was being demonstrated on three fields on three farms. After utilizing Innovation Farms as a space to test and validate the performance of their proactive weed management product, they were able to refine the system and now operate on 95 fields across 55 farms. Farming may be an age-old practice, but we are entering an exciting new era full of potential. With every year that passes, farmers and industry are getting better at addressing productivity and sustainability issues through the use of innovation and new technologies. It's a virtuous cycle. As new innovations are brought from pre-commercialization to market, they increase access to data. This new data will help equip farmers with solutions to help build economic resilience and increase our environmental sustainability. With this new support from the province, we can ensure Manitoba continues to be at the forefront of digital agriculture in a way that benefits not only our province's farmers, but the environment in which they grow and raise these products in the communities where we live. Thank you. Thanks, Ray. Thank you very much to the province, to the Premier and Minister for bringing this really exciting announcement. We have a really unique opportunity at Emily's Innovation Farms here, powered by AgExpert, to be able to do just that. Test and validate technologies to increase their adoption and integration into farms here in Manitoba and across the prairies to drive productivity and increase sustainability. So thanks very much to our panel of speakers here this morning and to each of you for joining us this morning and also being part of this journey. Thank you. That brings us to the formal conclusion of our comments this morning and I do want to open it up for any questions from media. Thank you. The $2 million that went to us today, if someone could explain where that money is going and what it will do to help the innovation that you guys are doing. Would either of you like to or should I? You want to start off with how it's used? I can talk about the breakdown later. Sure. Yeah, so these are funds from the Sustainable Canadian Ag Partnership, this Canada-Manitoba funding agreement, and we're going to use them here on Innovation Farms to be able to support the integration and adoption of projects across Innovation Farms, many in partnerships with prairie-based startups that drive sustainability and productivity, many of which are from, as I mentioned, startups that through the access to opportunity on Innovation Farms, iterate their product, continue to develop it and grow their businesses here on the Canadian Prairies. Just to go off that and just explain for us what new innovations you guys are doing here at Emily that maybe other farms across the province are doing and what you guys are doing to advance the future of the park? I think a good example is the one that Ray spoke to there, Gecko Predictive Weed Control. So this is a prairie-based startup, and what they're doing is actually using data collected from Innovation Farms, both from drones and satellites, to develop algorithms that can identify and predict actually where herbicide-resistant weeds are likely to occur. This is a big problem in agriculture, is difficult to deal with since they're herbicide-resistant, but also has a negative impact on crop yield. And so this algorithm is good at identifying not only where they are, but where they're likely to be so that farmers can undertake more aggressive strategies to mitigate those weeds where they might be even in advance through specialized prescription spraying models. As was mentioned before, AI is the future of farming. We can see that technology is in play everywhere. Just the importance, how important is it for you guys to get ahead of that curve and study all that stuff to understand where the future of farming is and to help us farm and cannabis that? Yeah, I think that's right. We think AI plays a big role in the future of how ag technologies continue to develop and evolve for the industry. You know, we like to talk about how AI will continue to become this important tool that farmers and agronomists use in their operations. And it really just makes it so that people can make, maybe identify first and foremost where they need to pay the most attention to on any given day, but also support their decision making to be increasingly efficient with how they're using their time and resources. I have a question for the senior president. Are there any specific outcomes for this $2 million from the top of the position of the team? Well, yeah, the specific outcomes are the ones that Jacqueline has laid out. So the facility and the fields and creating that incubator type environment for startups. You know, we're proud to be partnering with the federal government and Emily to make this investment. So it's a 60-40 split. And so, you know, the province is bringing about $810,000. The feds are providing the balance of that $2.025 million. It's very important always to mention that $25,000 that's in there. It's not $2 million exactly. It's $2.025. But the real point is this, you know, farmers have been loud and clear with us and saying, tech is great, innovation is great, but we can't afford to take a risk on our operations. It has to be proven. It has to be reliable. So what we're doing here is we're making an investment so that there's a space for those innovators to bring forward the new technology, prove it, and get that buy-in so that the ag producers can adopt those practices on the farm. And you said $2.025 million. Is that on-time this year? Is that spread out over and over too? Yeah, it's like a one-time investment, I would say. Yeah. I have an unrelated question for this, for you here. I know we have fire right now in northern Canada, so a little bit of pollution. We don't want to focus on disaster right now. Is the province at all thinking about sending any fire fire yourself over in Alberta? We're always ready to help our neighbours across Canada because even earlier this year, other provinces stepped up to help us. When we had to evacuate Cranberry Portage and some of the surrounding areas, Ontario, Quebec, other provinces were there. So absolutely, we'd be there to assist. Right now, what the wildfire service is working on, though, are those fires in northern Manitoba, in particular around Lynn Lake and Marseille-Colomb First Nation, two communities which are very close together. And so with an evacuation having taken place there, our emergency measures organization is really engaged with that. The wildfire service is working to contain the situation there. And so it's always a balancing act. We're fighting fires in the northern part of our province and keeping Manitobans safe there. But when the call comes, we'll be ready to assist our neighbours as well, too. I also have a couple unrelated questions. How do you feel about the state of the highway and typical roads? And what is the transportation you should see? You know, I drove down Highway 2 recently. And the earful that I get about our highways and roads everywhere, not just in southwestern Manitoba, is it's not going to be news to anyone that people want to see more work done on maintenance and on fixing potholes. And I got to tell you that a huge amount of the conversations that we have day to day around the province are about hearing those issues and then trying to get resources out the door to fix them. But the most important thing for us, if we want to see a long term improvement on our roads and highways, and this is not going to surprise any of the producers in the crowd here today, it's maintenance. Often the inclination is to announce the big new project and then the money gets taken away from ongoing maintenance. And so what you saw us do in our first budget earlier this year is to commit a four year path of half a billion dollars each year towards maintenance, instead of seeing like the up and down, you know, feast and famine type effect that we've seen in the past, where like you try and rush big projects out the door and then you pull down on maintenance. And then the upshot of that is what we see today, which is roads and highways that Manitobans rightfully want to see in better condition. So it's maybe not the thing that's going to put me up at a podium in the future, but investing in maintenance on a consistent, reliable basis is the most important thing that we're doing right there. And crucially for our construction industry partners, with them having that four year clear horizon, they can hire, they can plan and then they can get the crews out the door this construction season and the next one and the two after that with greater predictability. So it's a long term fix. We'll be there to respond when you bend our ear about a specific stretch of highway or a specific pothole. But the real long term fix is just to focus more on that day in day out maintenance that the inventory across the province requires. And what do you think about Manitobans waiting hours to have more? Well, in rural Manitoba, this has been a major priority in particular and that's why we've committed to hiring and educating many more paramedics here in the province. And it really does come down to a staffing shortage. There is an inequity previously around pay and around scope of practice where folks would often go to rural Manitoba to start their career as a paramedic and then transfer into the city. And the steps that we've been taking are to ensure that you can have a broader scope of practice in rural Manitoba, that you get better pay and resources in rural Manitoba so that we can make that a more attractive destination for paramedics to not just start their careers in, but stay longer term. The most important thing for us to do to reduce long waits for EMS in rural Manitoba is for us to get more staff resources there, more paramedics and that's what we're focused on. Okay, we're going to zoom, I'm told. Thank you, Premier. We have two questions from reporters on zoom. The first up with one a sorry one question one follow up. We're going to turn it over to La Liberté with Ophélie. Yes, my question is for Prime Minister Wapkinu. Today we are talking about the benefits of artificial intelligence in agriculture. Is there a desire to be the government to legify or to encadrer artificial intelligence in other sectors? Well, the artificial intelligence is an interesting thing, very important, with a lot of impacts and effects that we will see in the next few years. Yes, our government is engaged with these challenges. Today we are talking about the agricultural fields in the agricultural sector, but in the same time, there are big challenges in the health system. On the other hand, the artificial intelligence could add more time in the day for the doctors, it could improve the work for the nurses, but on the other hand, there are issues with private information, with information that is safeguarded by our health department. Now, our government is always working with the experts, the technology experts, but also the experts in the health system, to find a way to adapt these technologies in a way responsible way, which will improve the health system for all the Manitobians and Manitobians. And this is just an example of the artificial intelligence. It will be applied to every sector of our economy. We are in the future and society in the future and we are engaged with these challenges and challenges. So, can we see a project of law come to the next session? Well, I don't want to like scoop myself here, so maybe I won't answer in a direct way, but I would say that you will have a policy, maybe before the law projects that we are going to be able to help us with the artificial intelligence. And then, when we are ready to share the next steps, I think we will share this to the public. One example, it would be in the process of advancing the technology jobs in the health system, in the same time that we have announced these investments, we will also announce some steps to protect the information private for everyone in our province. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Second question comes from the Brandon Sun, Colin. Good morning, Premier. So, the funding for today's announcement call comes from the Sustainable Partnership, but the use of artificial intelligence is extremely energy intensive. How do we balance out as a province the need for improving sustainability while adopting a technology that is very power hungry? For us to be a leader in applying AI to sectors of the economy like ag, I think is crucial for there to be a pathway for artificial intelligence to be environmentally responsible in the future. If an investment like the one that we're making today was going to go to a jurisdiction that ran their electricity off of coal or natural gas, that would have a much bigger damage to the environment. Whereas here, everything that Emily is going to be working on is going to be powered by low carbon electricity from the Manitoba hydro grid. So, full credit to the last five decades of Manitobans who have been making that smart investment in a low carbon grid for the environmentally sustainable future. And so, to me, the AI train has left the station. These technologies are going to be applied in ag and manufacturing and transportation. And the more that we can develop that industry here in Manitoba, where those innovations are going to be powered by low carbon electricity, the stronger case that we're going to be making that this is part of how we move the needle on climate change and a safe, clean, healthy environment for the next generation, for our kids and grandkids. Thank you. And for my follow up on a note relating to the ongoing wildfires. After this year's budget, the opposition criticized your government for reducing the amount of emergency management funds compared to last year. You had said that you would spend what was required if more was needed. Are we at the point where Manitoba needs to increase its emergency funding for this year? We will always be there in Manitobans time of need. The amount that gets printed in the budget is based on the expert recommendations of the civil service. And every single resource that has been required to fight wildfires in Manitoba to date has been deployed. And that will continue to be there. This is an on demand service like health care. And what that means is that when Manitobans need the service, the resources are there to support them. And that will never change. Thanks, Premier. That's all from Zoom. We'll send things back to the event. Premier, one more question. Sure. The federal government has reduced funding to search for undergrads or residential schools. Just want to hear your reaction to that. I think all Canadians were moved by the disclosures of the former Brandon Residential School, Kamloops, and so many other sites around the country. I think everybody with a beating heart, you know, just takes a moment to reflect on kids not coming home. And so this is an important part of our country's journey with reconciliation. And we'll be there to work with Indigenous communities and we'll be there to ensure that that moves forward in a way that makes every Manitoban and every Canadian proud of this place that we call home. And recognizes that part of why we love this country and love this province so much is because the project of defining who we are is not complete. We're still moving forward. We're still making things better. We're still learning and creating a future in which, as they say, every child matters. And every kid in this province can reach their full potential. Okay, great. Well, thanks so much. Thank you. Yeah, really well said. We appreciate your work very much. Thank you. Oh, yeah. Always. Thank you, sir. Always a pleasure. Congrats. Thank you. Thank you.