Farm Tours With Superior Grain!!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qsqg45T8tV8
People & Blogs
 So, you're probably wondering where we're off to today. Well, Lloyd and Harry, we have new adventures today. Wait a minute, who's Lloyd and who's Harry? I'm Lloyd, you're Harry. Anyway, we are just going through Fargo, North Dakota. Today, we're going to go look at some interesting stuff. We are going to go to Superior Manufacturing and we're going to check out their mixed low grain dryer, how it's built. And then we're going to go check out a couple farm sites. And we're going to see what they look like and maybe you guys can pick up a couple things. If you guys are looking at maybe changing something or adding something, it's really hard to know what you want to do. And it's, you know, just as far as taking the contractor's word for it or whatever. So, we're going to show you a couple facilities and hopefully maybe you guys can pick up a couple things on that that you like or dislike. We're just trying to show you guys some different options. And then I'm learning, Dane's learning for our farm as far as what we can maybe change or do or whatever. So, we'll turn you back on when we get there. So, are you excited? Super excited. What are you going to learn, Dane? Whatever they put in front of me. You're just like a sponge. As long as it ain't too much because then it starts to swell. It starts to hurt. Yeah, that peanut will start to swell. Well, I can definitely tell you we're in Superior Country. A lot of shinies to peer your bins around here. Dane, where are we going? Left. Oh, okay. So, here's this humongous water diversion. Look at that. It's for diverting the red when it wants to flood up here in the spring. A lot of work ahead of them, yeah. They had to move all that dirt. Yes, they dug a big old trench there. Woo-wee. It doesn't really do it justice on the camera, but it's a big-ass ditch. That is for sure. Well, we're getting close to the Superior facility, and man, is it kind of neat here. We're right along the Cheyenne River, and it's beautiful soil. Oh, look at this parking spot just for us. All right, let's go in. After you, sir. Knock, knock. Nice. Hey. Hey, how's it going? Not too bad. I'm Mark. I'm Rick. Dane. How you doing, Dane? You guys are here for Josh, I'm guessing. Yeah, we're here for Josh. Wow. Jeez. Hi. Wow, guys. You know you did something right when you got an office like this, right, Dane? Yeah. We're inherited. That's pretty cool. That's pretty cool. That critter was actually shot up in your country. This one here? Yeah. Wow. Yeah, Red Lake County. That's a big old bruiser. Last I knew, he's state record for archery. Well, that's not the real one? No. Where's he at? At this point, I don't know. It's been bought and sold several times. So you're telling me that you shot the thing. Yep. And then, but someone wanted to buy it? Yep. Wow. That's pretty cool. Yeah, as he was a state record, like they wanted to put them on the, basically, their show circuit. Oh, sure. Take them around and show them. Huh. I wanted to retain the deer, so he's like, well, what if I buy it? Cool. So, okay. That's pretty interesting. So we better do an introduction here. So this is Josh, the owner of Superior, right? Or co-owner? Yeah, co-owner. You and dad? Yep. We're going to go out and look at a few sites, and we're going to talk a little bit about the history of Superior and kind of let you guys know what they stand for. So let's go. So we're just pulling into this other site. His name is Joe, the one that owns this. And this is basically a newer site that's just been built. We got the house, shop, fuel tanks, and the new bin site, which it's kind of funny because when Dane and I drove past here, we were both like, look at that. Isn't that so nice and simple? You got your house, got the shop, got the fuel tanks, and then a nice bin setup. So we're going to meet up with Joe and then get his take on what he did here on this new site. So we just had the marketing gal show up. It looks like she's got some goodies, too. This is Tara. Hello. What do you got there? Let's see. Well, you know, we just want to thank you guys for coming out to Kindred and touring a few of our farm sites. And we've got a couple nice little Carhartt hoodies. You might need an extra layer today. Nice. I hear we're going out for supper tonight, so maybe I get to use it. Yeah. So we're going to check this out. We're just waiting for Joey to get here and stand here in the wind and freeze for a little while until he gets here. We're in Davenport, North Dakota. Yeah, North Dakota. And we're with Joe here. Joe, this is his facility. And we're going to go through a couple things. We're going to look his facility over. You've seen it when we walked in. We're going to go through from the pit to the leg to the dryer. And he's got a grain pump on there. And we're just going to talk a little bit about why he built what he built and what he likes about it. And maybe something that he'd change if he wanted to change something. We're in the shack here. So we're going to start here and look at the controller on the dryer. And Joe's going to just kind of show you a little bit about what he does there and just kind of what he likes. This is just for the grain dryer then? Yes, this is just for the grain dryer. Okay. Basically just start up. You turn the control power on. Turn the main interlock to auto. This is a wet fill button. So you turn that, start filling the dryer out of the wet bin. Then you can hit your unload to start if you want. Or you can hit your fan to start. And then turn the fuel on. So pretty simple. Pretty simple. And then shutting down I usually just kind of go in reverse order. Shut the fuel off. Let the grain cool for a while with the fans. And then I just kind of shut them off in reverse order. Unload rate is right here. So when the display is all lit up. You have your unload rate here. If you want to, if you're just filling the dryer, I typically turn this down to zero. Or real slow. Just to get the grain up to temp and start drying it. And then you can kind of adjust your grain flow. So how do you know kind of where to adjust that? Doesn't this help with that? Or is this... Yeah, so the dryer master is typically on startup. I don't really use this much. I usually just get this going at a slow rate. Yep. Get the grain up to temp. And then flip the dryer master on. Once the system has been running for a while and you're kind of up to an estimated rate that you want. That's where the dryer master will kind of take over after some calibrating on the wet side and the dry side. Okay. This here is for your leg and... If the wet bin goes empty, this light will come on and it'll throw a fault. It'll shut the dryer down, I believe, at a certain stage. And then you've got a few other sensors here. Yep. High limits. Fault is high temp. Sure. Dry bin full. I do not have that one hooked up currently. But then you'll see when your wet grain is loading, it'll flip this light on here. And then this air pressure low. Yeah, what's that for? You need to sense... The dryer needs to sense positive air pressure with the fans. So resistance, basically. Yeah, so if you can't, if you're not getting, if your fans aren't on, you can't turn the fuel on until this light comes off. So it's kind of like a safety thing. Safety feature. Okay, cool. But as far as ease of use and everything, did you catch on to this system right away? What did you run before this? I had an old screen dryer, a Superbee screen dryer. So pretty ancient in today's dryer world. Sure. So this was a pretty big step up for me to use. And, you know, there's a little bit of a learning curve to it. But I think once we got that figured out, it's been pretty seamless. Well, let's go outside and check some stuff out. Okay, so we're outside the bin shack here now. And let's touch on the pit. And did Superior put in your pit? Yes. Okay. What size is this pit? So this is rated at 1,100 bushel is the rating on it. So we can typically pull up and dump a whole truckload no problem. If you're talking 950 bushel or 1,000 bushel even. It's got room for that. Plus you're already drawn out of it once you're halfway through dumping. Okay. So it's a single V in the bottom just like the last one. And have you had any issues with plugging or anything like that or water issues? Because there's a lot of guys that are afraid of these pits. Yep. Especially up north. Yep. So for us, I think a pit would be a very wise thing to do. Yes, it costs some money. But what are you saving on just the trucking side as far as like labor and time? And why did you put in a pit? Basically, I had the opportunity to kind of start from scratch here. And the pit was kind of number one priority for me, I guess, for efficiency. Yep. And like you said, getting rid of a possible truck and a driver at that point. And then also just the speed of it too. You know, we can have a truck pull across. As soon as he dumps his air and dumps the traps on the truck, he's off and running again. So that's kind of the main reason. Right. So maybe like driver fatigue and stuff like that. Like we dump in a grain auger and I want to get away from that. Yeah. So how do you, does your guys that help you out hauling corn and stuff, they seem to really like the pit? Yeah, they love it. You know, this is our first year using it and they love it. Yeah, I mean, the fatigue from getting in and out of the truck for, you know, dumping in a swing auger is kind of night and day. Yeah. So when we kind of drew up the design on this, you know, this was kind of the heart and soul of the new site here. Working around it. Right. Yeah. Yeah. Have you been really happy with the gate system here and the way this performs? Yeah. So there's a gate on there. We do use the gate to kind of set the initial flow, but there's also a VFD inside the shack. And so we have two different VFD settings. One, if you're running the wet leg and then one, if you're on the dry leg. So it'll run at two different rates because the dry leg is a little bit smaller than the wet leg. But then you can manually control the gate. And we did kind of fine tune that a little bit this fall. But a lot of it, you just kind of go off the amperage load on the VFD to kind of control how much you want to send up. So I see you have this goes into a grain pump and then into the leg. So can you explain quick like why did you guys do it like this versus any other specific way? There was, yeah, I mean, we kind of positioned the leg in the center of the bins. And then I've kind of determined how far back we'd have to kind of set our pit. And so we ended up with this short grain pump that carries away from the pit hogger. We're standing next to the legs and she's a ways up there. But what can you tell me about the legs and what do we got going here? Wet leg, dry leg? Yeah, so we got two legs. We got 10 by 10 tower. The legs are 105 feet, I believe. We have the wet here on the right. That's rated at 8K. And the dry leg is rated at 4K. So we have basically a divider gate here. If we want to send it from the pit to the dry side, we can send it to the dry side. Or typically we'll be sending it to the wet side. So we'll have the gate flip that way to send up the wet leg. And then on this system here, this leg and tower system, you bought this through Superior? Correct. Yep. And then so they installed it and you purchased it through them and everything. So it was kind of a package deal? Right. And you've been very happy with how it works and everything? Yeah, I mean it's been fairly limited bushels through it yet. It runs quiet, takes it away quick, and it'll be as reliable as it gets at the end here. And then do you have an electric diverter up there for wet and dry, or what's this about? So this is actually, no, there's not an electric, everything's manual on my side. So when we flip to dry, basically in the shack there, that's what controls the VFD, if I'm talking in my electrician's language here. So that controls the rate coming out of our pit at that point. So if we flip this to wet, then we're going to get the full rate coming out of the pit to the wet leg, which can handle it, but if we're going straight to the dry, which is less capacity, then we flip it to the dry side. Okay, okay. So that's like a two-speed. Correct. See, guys, these are the things that we're learning that I didn't ever know about or think about, but if you're trying to switch from dry to wet, something like this would be pretty handy if you're two different sizes, you're sized differently. So if you're doing dry and you want to speed it up, I'm assuming, you just click it over there and everything kind of speeds up. And then if you want to go back to wet, it just kind of slows it all down. Yeah, let's touch on the dryer here. Okay, so Joe put in a superior dryer. What size is your dryer? So this is a 24-12, so I think the rated bushels per hour at five points is right around 1,900. I'm hoping to get close to that, probably more in that 1,700 range at five points. So yeah, it was originally a 24-10, and we added two tiers to it to make it a 24-12 for some extra capacity. So what have you noticed as far as what the throughput is on that on like a 21% corn and stuff like that? Obviously, it has a lot to do with the weather, but is the capacity pretty good at what they say it's going to be? Yeah, it kind of depends on your drying temp as well. You know, a lot of times I'll run anywhere from 200 to 210, depending on the grain quality. You know, I think on the 24-10, you know, typically 1,300, 1,400 bushel an hour was pretty common, depending on the drying temp and outdoor temp. But now this one, I'm hoping to get, yeah, to that probably at 1,700 range. Right. 1,700, 1,800 range. So on the grain dryer, do you have any issues with any plugging or anything like that? I mean, they're pretty much pretty bulletproof, aren't they? Yeah, I mean, we've had a couple small issues, you know, with spots, but typically, you know, beginning of the year, you make sure they're cleaned out good, there's no bird's nests in there, blow them out. You know, we run the conveyors clean, we open the doors on the bottom to let everything drain out. And then as long as you're running, you know, in fairly decent weather, you have good corn, it's been pretty seamless. Yeah. Yeah. That's fun to hear. Yeah. Especially as a producer. Now, guys, this is, I mean, this is the producer that runs this dryer. Like, we're not out here sugarcoating it. It is what it is, right? Right. So then you go from, this is your wet bin here? Correct. What size is this? It's 42 diameters and 4210, which is roughly 46,000 bushel. Okay. Yeah. So 46,000 bushel wet bin. I see you built up your stem wall here. You come up with that on your own or what was the reasoning for that? Well, with the grain pump here coming out for the wet side, they wanted the three-foot form, I believe this is, just to give us that extra room. And you can still see we ended up having to make a small little dugout to put the boot of the grain pump in. Yep. But they wanted, this was kind of superior. They wanted this tall form. Yep. Which they're kind of recommending on a lot of their wet bins now. Sure. Just for some versatility, flexibility, getting it away from the wet bin. Right. So. If you could help somebody out as far as if they're building, expanding their grain handling facility, building a mixed flow dryer, do you feel like one thing you would recommend is, you know, hey, look at your wet system, you know, build a bigger wet bin. Yeah. You know, that seems to be kind of the common thing, right? The one thing at harvest is if you're constantly bumping up against your, if you have too, too limited on size on your wet bin, you're constantly having to keep that wet bin full. We're here, you know, it comes back to kind of the same premise as the pit, you know, operator fatigue. So if we can, we can fill up this wet bin. Yep. And we can dry for a full day or day and a half while we're hauling dry out on the dry side, give some of the operators a little bit of a break. You know, that seems to really help at the end of harvest when it goes on for, you know, six weeks. Right. Can you run this dryer if it's a light rain? Yeah, we've, we've ran it before. It kind of, it makes a little bit of a mess, but yeah, but yeah, there's no issues unless it's, you know, heavy, heavy rain that's coming sideways that it can get in the, uh, the louvers up there. But yeah, we've ran it in rain and with no issue. So have you ran it in the cold much? Yeah, we've, we've ran it in the cold. Yeah. Yeah. 2019 it was cold. Um, and you know, typically if it gets close to zero is about time to shut it down. It seems like, but you know, anything, you know, under freezing down to the twenties overnight, you know, we, we run it. Well, that's good to know. So yeah, that's a, is there anything that you want to highlight on this dryer that you like or anything that you want to showcase? Uh, since it's, it is a beautiful, a real nice superior dryer. Yeah. I mean, one thing I did really like about it with the under fan design is everything is ground level as far as servicing, you know, all your greasy and you're checking your chains, uh, your dry conveyors. We did have an electric motor go out, uh, two years ago on the drag chain underneath the meter rolls. And it was simple to replace cause it's right there and it was about six, eight feet off the ground. And then everything up top, there's really nothing up top that is a serviceable except for the drive for the grain pump. So that's pretty slick up top is just a gravity fill. So it just kind of fills up till it hits the high limit pancake switch and then shuts off the wet side. What's calling for corn. So have you seen any issues with the bees wings or anything coming down, getting sucked back into the fans or any, any issues like that? Because I mean, we're in North Dakota, I mean, you're going to have wind, you're going to have, you don't know what way it's coming out of. So, I mean, has that been an issue or has that not been an issue? It hasn't been an issue. No, I haven't really noticed anything, uh, as far as getting sucked back in the dryer. It's hard to tell, but, uh, you know, you'll, with the mixed flow system, you'll get more bees wings, uh, directly coming out of the dryer. But, uh, as far as getting kind of recirculated back through the fans, I haven't noticed anything. Okay. From that standpoint. Okay. So I'm going to explain this to you guys just quickly here. This site is a fairly new site, but this dryer he bought back in 2019. 2019, so he had a different farm that he moved that dryer to this new site. That's why when we say he's been running it for a while, that's why this is new. And that's been a few years ago. So, so now that we've checked out the whole bin site here, your dry bins, what is, what's the capacity on them? Uh, those are 62,000. So they're a 48 diameter, 10 ring tall. So 62,000 apiece. Okay. With everything that Superior did for you and everything that they built, I mean, is that a company that you would recommend to other producers in the area? Yeah, absolutely. Uh, the service is great. Uh, location here, proximity to their manufacturing is, is about four miles. Well, yeah, you're, you're, you're very fortunate that way. Right. So we have a, yeah, we have, uh, like I said, on the dryer side, uh, roadie does a great job of keeping us, um, up and running if there's any issues. So service has been good. And if we have any small issues with the bin too, um, they've been make sure to stop right out and get us going. So, so how about like the design process and just buying the, buying the system and stuff like that? You worked with Josh and, and stuff and them guys been pretty good to you. Yeah. So we kind of, when we initially laid this out, uh, I kind of had an idea of kind of what I wanted to do. And then we worked superior directly, um, to kind of finalize the details, get all the dimensions correct. And make sure there weren't any missed items that would cause any issues for future expansion or, uh, in startup. So awesome. Awesome. Well, Hey, Joe, thanks for your time. Yeah. We'll see you around. Well, we're swinging into what's this town. This is Kindred swinging into Kindred. We're going to go in their local cafe and have, uh, have some lunch. So we'll see what this is all about. Dane, have you ever been to Kindred, North Dakota? Nope. First time. This is a first time for me too. All about the little restaurant. I will say that was some, some good breakfast. Hey, Dana. Or not breakfast. It was good lunch. Was it good, Dane? Yeah, it was good. Pop-chow. Yeah, I thought so. Even taste, it tastes even better when Josh paid for it. It always does. So we stayed in Fargo. We're down at Superior Grain here. There was a lot of noise last night. A lot of sawn going on and somebody wasn't sleeping very good. He must've slept good for a little while. Yeah, not very good. We ended up with a half a quart of wood. Hey, uh, them hotel beds. Some of them are good, but some aren't either. A lot of chainsaw work last night. You poor bitch. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Well, we're going to find something to eat. Then we're going to head out to Superior and we're going to check out how things are built. Well, day two at Superior. Superior Manufacturing. Let's go in and find who's in charge. We're in one of the warehouses here. How many bins are in here? How much steel is in this place? We probably are sitting on 80 to 100 bins here right now. 80 to 100 bins. And are these bins sold already? Yeah. Everything in here has got a name on it. I noticed even if it's cool out, you've got a lot of fans running here. What's the... Does that have to do with the steel? Condensation. Condensation. Yep. Temperature, if it rises 5 to 10 degrees, stuff will start to want to frost if it doesn't have air movement. Okay. So you've got to have air. That way you keep everything in pristine shape when it leaves here. Yeah, it's pretty neat. Guys, look at all the bins here. How they're all stacked up like this. Well, we're going to head to the next building. There's a few of them. Okay. Well, we're heading into the next building here. It's really noisy, but they're stamping out floor stands for the air floors right now. We're looking at a robot here. Josh, what is this robot doing? Right now we're making the intermediate dryer duct. that will go in between the side panels. Okay. Okay. We're looking at a robot here. Josh, what is this robot doing? Right now we're making the intermediate dryer ducts that will go in between the side panels. Okay. So this is making dryer sides right now? Yup. Yup. This is making your dryer side pieces. And then those columns that you saw getting pulled would go in between them. Okay. So what's it doing now? Just taking a break? I think she's stuck. I think she's stuck. I think she's stuck. Okay. Oh my gosh. What is this robot doing? Right now we're making the intermediate dryer ducts that will go in between the side panels. Okay. Yes. Alright, so I can jump it up there. what is this? is this and I'm totalement cutting the trim part? how are we measuring? What do we measure or cutting the 아빠 Bloomer? That would come too fast. I think it took a There's a geofence right here. So it's just an eye that if we get too close, it stops moving. So how much does this thing cost? Plenty. They can Google it if they really need to know. It was worth every penny, put it that way. I was just telling him, you know, these things don't ever need a bathroom break or a sick day or a snack. The snack is to steal and you keep it in front of it and it's happy. As long as people don't walk through the geofence for a business. Like me. Yeah. Okay. All right. Well, let's move on. There's a lot more to see. So we're building unloads here. Yep. Looks like they're making, these are probably 48 foot unload with your power sweep. So they're wrapping up a few of them right now and they'll roll them out on the rack and they just get stacked into inventory. Over here now looks like we're, they got a, the top of a dryer that's getting started. And it is noisy in here guys. So if you can't hear everything, I apologize. There's a lot going on. What dryer is it's got? What was it? This is a 24 foot top. Okay. So they're assembling that. They're wrapping up platforms and top safety cage and I would probably get this out of here in the next hour. Okay. Right here we're putting together a disc hurt. This would be a cross drag for a dryer. Okay. So it's basically it connects the two conveyors together to drag it to one side or the other of the dryer. Okay. Pretty big heavy bearing. There's my hand. Well you guys really put a lot heavier bearings in there than I thought you would. One size fits all. They're pretty big. It's way easier to go heavier on everything and make it universal than trying to go to the bare minimum on every size just to save a dollar. Right. It doesn't make sense. Now this is all raw and finished product. Oh we got another room here in this way. Oh yeah. This is the big one. So this is another warehouse they have. Middle racks are pretty much all finished product and then the outsides are raw material waiting to be processed. Okay. Alright. Well geez look at this guys. There's a lot of stuff in here. A lot of stuff. So this is all aeration floor material that will get put into the machine and rolled into planking. How heavy is a... Probably about 4,500 pounds. Well. You might say you know. 3,840. 3,840 pounds. Each slab. And there's a lot of them. That Stamtec machine that you watched stamp on the floor supports. Yep. Will make a ton of parts for us. So it'll punch out just about anything we want it to. It'll make ladder standoffs for us. It will make eave angles that go around the top of the bin that connect the roof to the sidewall. It'll make the base plates for anchor bolts. It makes the shims for the stiffeners. And that's what goes in between the cement and them plates we just looked at back there. Them big heavy ones. It'll stamp out our bin stair kits. There's the... So it's a complete step. This would be the one that goes right underneath the door. Okay. For a guy to step into the doorway. That tool that you guys have does a lot for you then. I think we got 18 dies for it right now. Wow. So it makes the roof ladder rungs which go on the... From the peak to the eave. It makes the anchor stiffener which is this bottom piece right here. It's basically a folded C-channel with all the punch outs. I'll show you one thing up here once we get to it. It's kind of unique. So we create very little waste with everything we're doing. Which is the beauty of having your own machines, your own programming. Like when we're punching out our bin steps, we're producing our own washers. Oh. So instead of punching out that circle and just throwing it away, we're turning stuff into washers. I mean, it's... This is kind of the scrap bins, if you will, of all the excess parts that we can make with our remaining corners and whatnot. Yeah. And the beauty of those machines is then they'll also etch every part number into every piece. Oh, wow. So you'll always know what you're dealing with. Yeah. Well, that's just called being efficient and that's why you can be so competitive, right? Correct. It's little things like that that take you to the next steps. Right. There's a perfect example of a die sitting there right on the floor. Couldn't tell you what it's going to make, but it's when you're able to switch all itself. Oh, right here. This great big thing right here. That's like what you've seen when it was chump, chump. This is a die for that. To have a piece of steel like that machined into a die must not be very cheap. You're probably looking at $50,000 to $100,000 a die, depending on the complexity of it. Yeah. Well, let's go to the next part and see what's there. Okay. So what's your name? Sean. Hey, Sean. We're going to talk about this machine that you guys are using here today. Yep. What can you tell me about it? What's it doing? So about 90% of what we do in this facility comes in on flat sheet steel. We have two trumps. They punch and cut everything out. So right now on this machine, there's a tool rail and each tool is for different size punches. So he's got it loaded up. We program it offline. He loads the program in, puts the punches in, picks his sheet size, and now he'll start running. So we can do a lot of different things on them. We can extrude. We can do roller beatings and forming. So yeah, they've been awesome for us. So what we're going to look at right now is punch and hold. Is that what it's doing? Correct. Yeah. So it is actually putting, it's engraving our part numbers right now. And then from there, it can be manually picked. It can drop into a bin or we have a sheet master. They will actually pick up the part and put it on a pallet for us as it's running. And that's what that thing does. It's got all them suction cups on it and it'll grab the piece when it's done with it and then put it on a pallet. Correct. Yep. That's pretty cool. So that way you guys don't have to touch it. Correct. So we're back outside here now and we're, they got everything cemented on the other side of the facility here. And they got a lot of these dryer panels. What do you want to call these? These are dryer panels. These here will go back inside, be assembled, and then we're going to show you on the other side when they get them assembled, then you have a whole bunch of them sitting here ready to go. Yep. Okay. Just like a little hive around here, things are moving around. So we're going to go check out some of the dryer, what do you call them? Yeah, I'd call them sections. Sections that are. In this area. They are completed sections ready to go. Here's that, one of them top sections. That's all. Yeah, this is the 24 top. Like this here is a 16 foot dryer complete for a guy getting ready to get shipped out. So you got your top, your mid, and your top. That's the beauty about these mix flow dryers. They can just make them whatever size you need type. It's just so nice. And then we're going to go over here and just check out. They got a whole bunch of these big sections. Basically, when it comes to your site or when it comes to your operation, these are the sections that are going to get lifted up and set in place, you know, to build your dryer. So I would like to showcase something here. These things are built really heavy duty. Like a lot heavier than I thought they were, honestly. Them are your drives that pull the grain off your rollers. So this is what they call the gas train. And this is basically the burner, right, Josh? Correct. Yep. Yep. That would be your burner and the gas train's mounted on your other end. So the gas train's on the other end and this is your burner. Let's just show what you're working on here. Draver, you're doing all the blueprints, right? Working on CAD, site designs and layouts. So if you call Superior, this is the guy, one of the guys that's probably going to be designing your system. Go in and do full 3D layouts. Either brand new sites or adding into existing systems. Sure. So how long does it take for you to do a site like this per se? Depends on how much we're adding to it. If there is existing, I can usually get a site drawn up and depending on how much we're adding, a couple hours. Okay. You know, and then coding beyond that, you know. Cool. Usually like to send it out to the customers to see, you know, what they want, you know, if there's edits needed or stuff like that. So when you start on a site like this and you're starting from scratch and then you send it off and then you're changing it, does it take long to do changes and stuff like that? You guys can alter stuff pretty quickly. Yeah, usually within, you know, an hour or two, depending on what's getting changed. Right, and by doing this, you kind of know what's going to work, what's not going to work. Right, we can see what's going to fit and what's not on the property. We use it for the coding process as far as how big of pumps do we need, what's the angle they're running at, that type of thing. You can kind of overlay it with GPS, or not GPS, but satellite imagery. Exactly, yep. Okay, nice. So we can know exactly, you know, where his driveway is at, how close we are getting to it. Sure. You know, how much space he needs from the road, whatever it may be. So we're going to talk to Josh here a little bit about kind of the history of Superior, where it started, how it started. I mean, I didn't know it was kind of a family-run operation, and it's been that way for quite a few years. So I'm going to turn the camera over to Josh, and we're going to talk to Josh a little bit about the family business and how it got started, and just so you guys kind of have an idea and understand where they came from. So I guess I'd be second generation of the business. You know, father started in the late 70s, and he was just a dealer, just pouring concrete, building bins, basically doing whatever he could to make it work. Progressed a little bit into the later 80s and 90s, and he started selling Westfield bins for, I think he probably did it for 15 years. And in the late 90s, early 2000s, you know, transitioned over to Sukup Manufacturing when they started making bins. So he was, you know, involved with kind of their design process a little bit as a builder, and, you know, we bought all the accessories. And, you know, a few years later, the call kind of came to, I want to be a manufacturer, you know, and... Your dad. Yep. You know, dad decided it was time to take a bite into the manufacturing world, and I thought he was crazy. You know, I think we all thought he was crazy. It's, that's a lot of capital. It's a lot of guts. It's a lot of debt. You know, it's a lot of stress. It's a risk. It was a whole different world than what we had ever known. You know, we knew how to build bins. We didn't know how to make bins. Fast forward another 20 years later, here we are today with basically a full line of equipment. So on, and then not only you guys build the bins, and bins have been your bread and butter for many years. Correct. And now in the last, how many years have you guys expanded into the dryer world? Do you want to touch on that, on how and when you guys decided to get in on, and then why maybe a mixed flow? Yeah. So it, kind of the same path as the green bin deal was, you know, we were a dealer for a different brand of mixed flow dryers, and saw some ways to improve the dryer, improve costing, improve availability, improve service, all those factors. And I'll say it once again, it was one of those deals where dad said, I think we're going to start making a dryer. And everyone goes, what do we know about dryers? You know, again, we install dryers. We don't manufacture them. And once again, spearheaded it. We got in works with the guys that had the Excel and Vertec plans. That had been around for? Yeah, they had been around for, you know, quite a while. And it was just one of those, I don't know if they ran out of capital or interest or what, but, you know, it was kind of fizzled. And we got into that and put our own flavor into that. And we've been a full-fledged dryer manufacturer for 10 plus years now. And you've basically made the dryer bigger, better, stronger? 100%. And that was the reasons why we've separated for so many of these manufacturers is there was a lot of simple improvements that would cost very little dollars. That would make the dryer better, the business better, the customer happier. And a lot of guys just didn't want to reinvent the wheel or expand the wheel as it worked. Why change it? Right. Where we have always had the mindset, if we can find a way to improve something, why not? Let's say someone ordered a dryer and your turnaround time is quite good, correct? I mean, in some situations, you might call and say, I need a 24-foot dryer and I need it in the worst way. I might have it here for you. So, I mean, we might be able to load it on a truck next week. Frankly, worst case scenario, unless we're just buried, I could probably turn it for you in three weeks. Where, I mean, there's been cases where guys are waiting 12 to 14 months for a dryer. You know, so it's, our timeliness is really what has allowed us to become a very major player in the markets. Compared to, you know, 10, 15 years ago, we were just scrapping away to get every piece that we could. Sure. So, is your dad still involved on a daily level? Are you taking over Josh now? Or how is this working as far as a family goes? Dad's retired about five, six years ago. He moved down south. His involvement's a weekly phone call if he wants to be involved in a meeting. You know, and he can come and go as he pleases. You know, I would never say it's just me. There's a pretty healthy team of management here. Absolutely. I can see that. CFO, CEO, it's like, there's guys that manage their turf. You know, we got shop management. You know, we've got financial management. And it's the key to a successful business. Instead of, you know, every spoke of the wheel running to the center, that's not how it works. There's a lot of longevity here. But we are still 100% family owned. I guess as long as I'm breathing, I don't think that ever changes. Right. It goes to next generation is the hopes. Yeah. There's zero desire to get out, to sell out, to find partners. It would almost be a slap in the face to father and all of his efforts and risks to then say, oh, I'm ready to be done. So, you know, they're a company that's probably going to be around a long time. You don't have to worry about them moving on or selling off to another competitor. And then like, oh, well, I'm sorry, we don't service that system anymore. And I just want to say thanks to Josh for inviting us to Superior to see what this is all about since we've been doing this dryer tour and little venture on grain dryers and how they're built. So this main facility is where the dryers are built and manufactured. The actual grain bin facility is in South Dakota. And that's where they roll the steel and stuff. So that's why you didn't see any of that here. But I just want to say thanks again, Josh. Absolutely. I really appreciate it. I enjoyed it. I hope you guys enjoyed coming along. And we'll see you in the next video. Hey, make sure to subscribe. Catch you later. So make sure you look at the camera someday when we're talking here. Don't stare off into the pine trees. Why? Looking for goats. Isn't that where Hooters is supposed to be? Where? Hooters? Oh, Danny, you want to go have lunch at Hooters? Oh, yeah. Who doesn't like Hooters? Who doesn't like Hooters? Probably my wife. Why? Well, I'm pretty sure. French fries aren't any good or what? Yeah, it's the French fries. Just the soup. Yeah, we'll go to Hooters and see what type of soup and sandwich they have there. Yeah, we're over here. Breakfast near me. Struggling trying to get the freaking breakfast app to work here. And it's not going very good. Dane, he's been in and out of the same screen ten times because he can't figure out how to get the thing to... I can't get it to move! And then... Oh, what a bunch of hillbillies. Eww, fried potato. Yeah. It'd be better than a rotten tomato. Yeah. It'd be better than a rotten tomato. Then the gas goes... Yeah, we've got to have enough to get home. Yeah, I know. Steve-O said one tank of gas, any more than that, and you figured out. Probably have to wash dishes for our breakfast. Have you looked at the corn price lately? Oats is worth more. That's pretty bad when oats is worth more than corn. Well, at least we could make oatmeal. It'd be better than corn flakes. I like this green, homie. You don't have to stop. I'm not, I'm just slowing down, son. Oh. What? No. But just like... Do it. No, face me and then do like... What? So open your hand, open your arms like, look at this. What a doofus. It's tit-bib-in-ip-ion. So we're... It looks like 400 pounds. The... The... The... We just pulled into another farm and... Uh... Dean... Shut up back there! Hey, Dean! You just said n******s. I can't have that on there. Oh! What? Oh! Dean's having a stroke back there. Well, we're done, but we're not done. Oh, I ain't going... I don't know if I'm going back to the shack. And destroyed. Destroy. I'm not going to even say that. Somebody's got a s***. Ryan say a s***. Yeah. He's got a duke on board and it's gonna... It's gonna make its way out. Hey, there's a willow bush. Yeah. You better go back to the shack or you're not going to make it. No nukes. No nukes. No nukes. No nukes. No nukes. No nukes. Yeah, it ain't a turtle head. It's a nuke. That spicy chicken you had. Oh, it might have something to do with it. Yeah, last night, he got the meat sweats. He had to have the spicy... What was it? Spicy chicken or ribs or what? It was ribs and chicken. Oh. Well, I don't know. They were pretty damn good, so... Oh, yeah. I'm sure they were. They look good. They're going to be just as good on the way out too, aren't they? Be glad to get rid of it. Should've brought some wet wipes. What's your f***ing problem? What's your problem? Well, I could just see that. You recorded the whole f***ing thing in slow-mo. I just told Dane we had to switch out batteries a couple times on the camera and I said it's probably all in slow motion or something. Maybe bumped a button wrong and he's out there splitting a spleen. I could just see that. No nukes. That'd be very bad. Stephanie would be very upset with us.