Staff Management and Operations for Your Agribusiness
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QszMgOWU4ts
Science & Technology
 Hello everyone, my name is Jmita and I'm here to talk to you about staff management and people operations for your agribusiness as well as any other business really that you find yourself. While there's no hard or fast rule to some of these things, it is important that there's certain things that you look out for that you deliberate about from the get-go so that management of your people becomes easy. Now you can say that oh I don't run a big business so some of these things may not be important but I tell you for free that these are things that you can incorporate whether you're a big business or a small business and you won't find or see the difference you know from the get-go. The most important thing to note at this point is that management of staff should be planned. It shouldn't happen on you and it shouldn't come to you as a surprise. One way of doing this is to ensure that your organization understands its vision, understands the values that would help you drive that vision as well as the behavior that would help you bring the vision to life. So the alignment between the vision and the people that you're managing is very important. How do you go about this? Let's start off from the recruitment fee. So because human beings are the most complex beings that you have out there, it's important that there is synergy or there's an alignment with the kind of people that you bring in. Again, I'd like to reiterate at this point that people are your most treasured assets for every organization, big or small. So it is important that you pay deliberate actions into the kinds of people that you're bringing in and how you manage them. Recruitment for me would be the starting point. How you need to align your recruitment effort to the vision of your organization. You need to align the values of the people that you're bringing to the values of the organization. You need to ensure that the behavior, the behavioral set of these people actually align with the values of the organization. So what are you looking out for? If you leave a certain number of people in the room, do they understand what your vision is? Can they stand to it? Can they speak to it? Those are the things you're looking out for at the recruitment fee. So you need to hire rights from the get-go. So don't pay leave service to recruitment. A lot of people make that mistake. I just feel they can bring in anybody into the organization. But no, that's where management starts from. So you must and you should align the people that you bring into the organization to the vision, to the value and the behavior that you want set for your organization. Now, beyond recruiting right or hiring the right, you also need to pay attention to how you onboard them. Onboarding is a term. It looks like a big word, but it's just simply how the people feel when they resume. So they get into the office space. What do they see? You know, who do they need? Do they feel welcome? Do they feel the warmth? You know, those are the kinds of things that you're looking for. What kinds of policies have you put in place to ensure that there's guidance with the way that they interact with the system? That's very important because it also helps you manage your people, right? So they come in, they feel the warmth, they feel that you're already being deliberate about getting there. But they, in turn, would most likely be deliberate with you. So an example would be how, you know, you've been to certain places and, you know, nice places and you like the experience and you're looking forward to revisiting these places. What are those things that you saw? It only means that the owner of this space has been deliberate, you know, into creating an atmosphere, into creating an experience that they want you to, to have. So you need to do that as well with your people. Don't just hire people and get, you know, them running. A lot of times you say, oh, I need somebody to hit the ground running. Yes, they would hit the ground running, but they would run in various directions. Sometimes in directions that you do not even want them to go to. So it's important that you gather them, you know, at the onboarding phase and train them into what or how you want them to be. So onboarding is important. The policies you have in place that would help you engage the different people with the different personalities are also very important. You need to trust that your people would go by these policies and do right by the organization. How do you communicate with your people? Communication is not just saying what it is you want them to say or what you want them to do, but it is also how you interact with them. They are watching your every move. So beyond saying, I want you to be like this and I want you to be like that, what vibe are you giving of yourself? What are they seeing? What are they watching to ensure that they are actually in alignment with what you expect them to do? Remember that you're getting people from various backgrounds, various characters, various personalities, and you're expecting them to walk into creating one vision for the organization. You need to be able to create a synergy, an alignment that helps these people act in one accord. So these are some of the things that you can put in place. Practice what you preach. Communicate frequently. So when the people come on board, you're telling them, for example, this is what you're expecting from them. What are you measuring them against? Because management is all-encompassing. How do you manage people if they do not understand what you even want from them? So you need to communicate from the beginning. What exactly are you expecting from them? For example, the broiler culture production space, you get farmers on board and you say that you want, or rather you're particular about the weight of the bed, for example, or the mortality rate, for example, or the feed conversion ratio. All of those things, they need to understand so that from the get-go, they are acting in accordance with, you know, that expectation. Because if you do not set those expectations from the beginning, management becomes tough. Because when it comes to, you know, maybe giving feedback and all, you're on different divides and it becomes, oh, I didn't know this, oh, I knew that. You need to ensure that the expectations are set right. And there is room for measurements and also feedback. So it's very easy for you to say, do this and do that, like I said earlier on. But do you also have room for the people to, you know, give you feedback? Because this feedback would help you understand where their thoughts are. And because you're not the owner of knowledge, getting input from people is also very important. So feedback is also very important and it would help you manage people. Lastly, I'd like to say beyond just getting people into the workspace or into your space to help create value. You need to also be watchful. You need to see what it is that you're doing. You can get involved in small office retreats or team bonding activities. It doesn't have to be expensive. This is just an avenue for you to watch and see what or how your people interact. You'll be surprised the kinds of things that you find out in those kinds of settings because people are relaxed and they're talking freely. And then you can get, you know, a fight or a sort of input into how they even like to be managed. You need to pay attention a lot because if you don't pay attention, you might use out of some important facts or some important insight that will help you with the management of your people. So I'd like to reiterate the fact that you need to be deliberate from the get-go. You need to hire the right people. So reconvert is very important. You need to set the right policies that would help you achieve your goal as an organization. You need to communicate and communicate effectively. Communication is an entire loop. And in that communication, you also need to remember to give feedback because that's also part of communication. Also, you need to let people know what exactly you're expecting from them so that management of these activities become easier for you in a nutshell. Like I said earlier on, there's no hard or fast rule to these things. But if you practice some of these things that we've talked about, I think that management of your staff will become easier for you in the long run. Thank you very much.