A New Kind of Ranching Is Taking It’s Place at the Ponderosa!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qUU_OJuDx24
Education
 first thing we gotta go do is check the big joe herd they've been in the burn unit since the post working i had this little inspiration to bring back the wild turkey population here you don't want to keep them in a small pen we need to do something different so marissa and i just got something we're moving our turkeys in it today hey guys welcome back to across timbers bison i want to thank happy farmer for sponsoring today's video marissa and i are super excited if you guys don't already know we raise wild turkeys so marissa and i just got something that's going to make a huge difference for our turkey ranching first thing we gotta go check the big joe herd like i said they've been in the burn unit for about a week or two we've checked them on we checked on them several times but i'm gonna take them some hay and i'm gonna try to move them to the nine acres and then into pasture four which is where recently we've been cleaning out a pond in there because it was completely dry well two large rains have surprised us so much and filled the sucker up which means now we can rotate our bison in there they can start grazing in that pasture since it's at rest they'll have water now in their new cleaned out pond and also i'm gonna give them some grassy alfalfa and some native hay roll it out for them have plenty to munch on so the big joe herd hasn't seen the feed truck in a couple weeks so i bet they're excited to see me i see them right here over the hill oh yeah here they come what are you doing over here silly boy so what's interesting here is i just rolled out two bells of hay so what we're doing is i'm rolling out some hay just kind of giving them plenty to eat what i did was i rolled out two bells of hay over there some long strips on some grass that uh some ground that needs to be covered it's some very short grazed low grass and so i'm trying to get some coverage on it but so i rolled out a native and then i rolled out alfalfa and then to kind of draw them back in from the burning it obviously it worked and then our this morning i just rolled out a native hay and then i rolled out alfalfa bill and so i rolled all that out they've got plenty to eat it's all spread out everywhere for them the interesting thing is i rolled out that native over there and maybe it's just because i'm over here and this goofy guy but i rolled out the this right here is grassy alfalfa right through here and so far that's what they're liking so that's interesting it's good to know that they're liking this grassy alfalfa it's got a little bit more protein in it actually it has a lot more protein in it we've got anywhere from 20 to 24 percent on this grassy alfalfa compared to the native hay i rolled out there which that cow she's over there eating it um which is about six or seven percent protein so that's good stuff we get them through the winter and they need this protein especially when we're getting our first days of freezing so just give you a little background information what we did is i had this little inspiration to bring back the wild turkey population here in southern oklahoma especially here at the ponderosa used to be lots of wild turkeys when i say wild turkeys i'm talking about the easterns and mostly the rio grande i want to try to contribute and get the turkey population going again here so what i did was is in april and may of 2024 i bought some wild turkey eggs online had them shipped to us we incubated them and out of the 30 we only had seven struggled a little bit i heard that wild turkeys are hard to incubate and hatch out so we only ended up with seven so our goals kind of switched a little bit we've got three hens and four toms and what we wanted to do with that is we kind of changed our mind we said well we're going to keep them we asked you guys and you recommended this we kept these adults and we're going to wait till the spring again when these hens hopefully start laying eggs for the first time ever we're going to keep the eggs we're going to incubate them we're going to do a better job and hopefully get a big group of turkeys and then we'll let a big flock of them go out here on the ponderosa yes wild turkeys and bison back together again that's what we're doing so what we did was is marissa and i we don't want to keep them in a small pen which we've had them there for a while and i said we need to do something different i like the mobile units i wanted to try to do something where we can move them around right they're wild turkeys let's do the best we can to keep them wild essentially living off the land with some help from us right some feed some clean water those things because this is basically our breeding stock here and so what we did is we reached out to the mobile chicken coops from happy farmer this is what we got it is going to be so awesome we're going to show you guys all of the things that we can do with this and we're going to move it around the ponderosa so this mobile chicken unit from happy farmer came in on a big 18-wheeler semi truck my skid steer was actually out in the field so i used the hydra bed to unload this long pallet of all the parts and all the equipment to set up this mobile chicken unit so the next thing was is to put this thing together so we could get these turkeys in there as quick as possible marissa and i did this together i would highly recommend using at least two people for this project just because this is a 10 by 18 mobile unit we got one of the largest mobile units just because we're dealing with a larger bird instead of just chickens this is definitely made for chickens there's several different sizes on the happy farmer website that you can pick from but marissa and i put this together tag-teamed it and it actually wasn't bad at all took a little bit of time working together obviously start with the sides got the sidewalls completed got our angles then we started putting on our rafters and then the main beam of course you're going to get the instructions there's also some videos online that marissa and i used to kind of get an idea of what it was supposed to look like and how it's supposed to put together so we did use the videos online as well all the bolts and nuts come in separate packages and they're marked for you so you know what bolts you're going to be using for different parts of this pin once we got the door on and the main whole frame of this chicken pin built we moved it a little bit closer to the barn where we actually are going to move our turkeys in it so we didn't have to take the turkeys very far and we're going to put them in an area where we're going to be able to rotate kind of around the front yard sort of inside the ponderosa but of course what makes this mobile is how these tires come up and down this is a neat and easy concept that they came up with and this thing is not heavy at all this whole system is so light i could already tell it's going to be a great way for us to move the turkeys around so once we did that we got it set stationary and then we put the tarp this is a heavy duty tarp and i think it will last a long time two three four it's pretty simple brooks and her cousin aj are out here with us helping us put on this canvas and then they're going to help us move these turkeys to their new pen all right now's the time we've got the turkey pin completely built we're not going to mess with the water system right now because uh we're in freezing temperatures and looks like a really awesome and nice water system so we're not going to mess with it right now but it'll be very handy and super nice especially in the warmer temperatures but we've got to get the turkeys out of this pin and move them into their new mobile pin we can't wait to do that so this is the uh fun part getting in with these uh wild turkeys hey girl yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah about had an escape artist good night nancy one are you good with just taking one at a time one i think that sounds like a good idea i know i i don't want to be responsible for the uh we got the turkey we got the turkey we got the turkey and and i got the thing i got the thing i got the thing hooked up i got the thing hooked up i'm gonna watch it i'll get the bucket out of there i dive nerdy put the yeah put in pull it Hey, y'all wait, right? Okay, Brooks. You come over here, huh? No! Okay, you stay there. What in the heck are we doing? Well, you got to get the gate. You got to get this gate. Oh. Okay, you stay right here, and you open this gate for us, all right? Don't let horses out. Manza. Yeah. They get fired up. They have gotten big. Yeah, they have gotten big. Strong. Very strong. Very strong. Oh, stronger than a chicken. You got it? Okay. Watch their talons. Do they have talons? Yeah. Okay. Got it? Yep. Okay. I don't delay in case they see the escape. Okay, Brooks. Okay. Hey, there is a bucky, bucky. Here we go. Here's a bucky, bucky turkey. Bucky, bucky turkey. Gobbler. Number two. Number two. Number two gobbler. Now number two. All the dogs are extremely curious about this situation. Woo! Oh, God. Turkey's too crazy. Yeah. Oh, they're kind of wild. No wonder they're called wild turkeys. Same spot. Every time. Oh, shit. Oh, shit. Oh, shit. Oh, shit. Oh, shit. Oh, shit. Oh, shit. Oh, shit. Oh, shit. Oh, shit. Oh, shit. Girl. All right. Got him? Got him? Yeah. Are you sure? Yeah. Say get out. I don't know how easy it is to... Pull it. What number? And this. This is not our Thanksgiving meal. No more. Three. This is number one. Number one. You shut the gate, babe? No. No. No. No. Bandit. Three goblers. We got three goblers. What? What was the... Bullet? You cannot go in there, buddy. I know it's enticing. Isn't it, AJ? Yeah. Maya. All right. Hey, girl. Hey, girl. Hey, girl. Hey, girl. Hey, girl. Hey, girl. Hey, girl. Hey, girl. Hey, girl. Hey, girl. Hey, girl. Hey, girl. Hey, girl. Hey, girl. Hey, girl. Hey, girl. Hey, girl. Hey, girl. Got him? Yeah. Bullet. No. So we got four gobblers. Next three are hens. So they're a little, uh, the hens are a little bit, uh, got a little bit more blood in them, I guess. Some wild blood. And the toms? Those toms are the first ones that come up and eat. They're the first ones that come up to you in the pen. But those hens are a little bit, uh, nutty. More skittish? Yeah, very skittish. So that one time I may or may not have let one of the turkeys out, it was probably a tom? Well, I, uh, I think so. The hens are just a little bit more. A little bit more. A little bit more. A little bit more. You're just giving me a better home there, babe. Oh, her band's about to come up. You want me to go get some vice grips or something? Zero seven. Yeah, I'll see if I can get one right there. Hold on, Bruxy. I'm coming out for you. Dad! Hey, Cora. Hey, girl. Okay, girl, you got it? I don't know. Shut it all the way. Yeah. Make sure you watch it. She'll push it open. Yeah. Fire's on my truck. You want me to go get them? I don't know. Nothing like taking a turkey for a stroll, eh? Yeah. There you go. There you go. Hens are actually that pretty. You're going to probably have to do this. They have to put the camera down. Yeah, is that okay? Yep. We'll keep the pliers just in case. Yeah. We have any others? We'll keep the neck on. This is number seven. Number seven. Looks like the girls... The girls are doing good. Looks like the girls switched their posts, huh? Yeah. Yeah. Are you turkey door gal now? Yeah. Okay. Pull it. Get out. Cut. Whoa! Thank you. Thank you. Lovely. You just got to watch her because she can open that gate. Got her? Three. We'll need those pliers. I'll get her other wing. I'm going to take those pliers. Oh, I didn't know they hit us. They do? Why is all I'm bleeding? Brooks, are you not manning your post? You're going to let off turkey back? Oh, you're in trouble now. Daddy, I'm going to let off turkey. No. Cool. You got to cut off a little bit. Open the gate for me. She cut off? She cut off what? That's yours. I don't believe it. It's in the cage. I'll take it. All right. All right. So it's fine. It's fine. Oh, yeah. They're fine. Hold on, Brooks. Hold on. Back to making some noise. Bullet! You're not soft. Very soft. Yeah. Very soft. Yeah. Very soft. Yeah. Very soft. Yeah. So we've got six in there so far. Two hands, four toms. This is the last hand. The hands, like I said, are the most skittish. And these suckers are athletic and fast. So it's hard to just catch them. It's easier if you get them by both legs and then kind of drag them and catch their body. Because they'll get you. Are you transporting a feather? Yeah. Yeah. It's fucking better than this. Last one. Oh, it's just that. Bullet! Man. If you don't get their feet, you lose. Glad it's you and not me. See, when you get them by their feet, they kind of... Come here, come here. Come here, come here. I got you. Let's see. It says number... It says number four. Do their heads ever get like... Because it looks almost like it's... They're trying to. Molting, kind of. But not... It's like feathers are kind of... Because these guys aren't even a year old yet. Oh, I see what you're talking about. The feathers on its neck. I was talking about all on its head. Kind of what... Yeah, I don't know. Will they come in or will they stay sort of blue like that? On the hands, I don't know. Should look into it. I'm showing my... Hey, Morgan. What's up, girl? What's up, girl? Cora? Yes, she is most of the time. Correctly, brothers. How many you got? Let's see what you got. One. Oh, well, you got quite a few in that hand. Multiple hands. One. And a fake phone. Oh, am I going to hold them now? Hold on. Dad's setting this one free. There they go. Two. Much bigger pen. As needed. Three. Four. Whoa, that one's a big one, isn't it? They're fluffy, aren't they? Five. Seven. You got seven? Uh-huh. Good job, babe. Happy Farmer pen right here. Mobile turkey chicken unit. Seven. Good job, babe. Heck, yeah. So we've got roosting bars right here, here, back there. All the diagonal are roosting bars. These bars can be used to hang feet off of right here and a water system. And so we're going to eventually have a water system that'll attach right here to this. And it'll be able to ran through there. It'll be an automatic gravity flow water system. But right now we're in freezing temps and we're not going to mess with it right now. So excited about this. So we can just pop up the wheels. And now, since they're here in our yard, basically, of the Ponderosa, we'll just be able to pick it up and move it all throughout the yard here. It can even go out in the pasture. But we're going to let them acclimate to this so far because they've been in that small pen for a while and deserve to be in something bigger. So I want to thank Happy Farmer for sponsoring our video today. We cannot wait to use this mobile unit. Of course, we're going to show you guys, keep you updated with it. And we're just happy to have our wild turkeys in this new 10 by 18 pen. If you're interested in a lightweight mobile chicken, turkey, or duck unit, check them out at happyfarmer.com. These guys are a little unsure about what is going on. Hey, Blackjack. Maya, what do you think, girl? Hmm? All right. Hey, buddy. Thank you guys for watching this. We'll see you soon. We'll keep on Boston Ranching.