How Pollination Works
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qWc8X6YeTv8
Education
 Hi, my name is Tess with the Cincinnati Nature Center and I want you to quickly imagine with me that you're super hungry walking along the street when you see a bright sign that says free food. Jackpot. Well, if you're a pollinator like this bee, that flower's bright petals and sweet smell is the same as that sign. It's saying there's some free nectar in here if you just come pollinate me. So what is pollination and how does it work? As the bee approaches the flower in search of its free snack, it's going to run into a lot of parts of the flower first. That nectar that it wants is way down there at the bottom of the flower next to the petals. So what are all these things that it's bumping into? Just like all living things, flowers need to reproduce so that their species can live on for years to come. They have some pretty special body parts that help them do this. First, they've got the stamens here. This is the male part of the flower and at the top you can find all that fluffy pollen, the stuff that might make you sneeze in the spring. They also have a female part. That's the pistil right here in the center. In the pistil, you might be able to find some teeny tiny eggs or ovules that will eventually turn into seeds. Now that we have a better idea of what these different parts of the flower are, let's see what happens when the bee bumps into them. As the bee travels around looking for nectar, it's going to bump into these stamens and get a bunch of pollen on it. It might already have some pollen from another flower as it collects some from this one. And you might have noticed that bees have pretty fuzzy bodies. Those hairs are really good at collecting this pollen. So good in fact, that even when a bee's just cleaned itself, it can still have 10,000 pieces of pollen on its body. That's a lot. And it's not just bumping into these stamens either. It's also bumping in to our pistil. And as it does that, some of the pollen's going to fall off and stick to the sticky top of our pistil. This pistil has a few other tricks up its sleeve. Not only is it sticky at the top to collect that pollen, it can also sense something about it. It can sense if this pollen's from the same species of plant or not. If it is, then the flower is good to go. And it will grow a tube in the middle of the pistil that that pollen can travel down. Once that pollen travels all the way down the pistil, it'll be down here with the ovule. Now the pollen and the ovule can fuse together and form a seed to make a new plant. Without the help of pollinators to move pollen from one plant to another, so many plants would have no way to reproduce and make new seeds. So let's be grateful for all of the hard work pollinators do in search of free food.