FAQ - How do you find the seeding rate for different cover crops?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QYhTkwfnnhY
Education
 All right, I've got the seed. What's the seeding rate? How deep do I need to plant this? There's a lot of questions around how to plant cover crop seeds. So this one I do want to spend a decent amount of time on so maybe we'll just piece this up. But how do you find the seeding rate or the bushel weight on the cover crop seed that we send out? You want me to handle that Keith? Well I'll handle that first part there. When you get, and I don't know, I'll print one out and hold it up here as Dale's talking, but when you get the seed analysis sheet it's gonna say the seeding rate right on there. And that will tell you 30 pounds an acre, 40 pounds an acre, and if you can't find that all you've got to do is take the number of acres that you're doing, the number of pounds of seed that you have, and just do the math. And you'll be able to tell very quickly what your seeding rate needs to be. Setting the drill is going to be a little bit different deal. We are working on, and probably won't be this year, but next year, on those analysis reports it's going to tell you what the bushel weight of your overall mix is going to be. And again, that's not going to tell you how to set your drill, but it's going to be one factor involved in helping you get close and get started. So that's what we're printing out and providing on the papers that we send you. And then once you get that, then you have to actually get that applied to your drill. So Dale, go ahead and talk about several different ways that the customer can do that. Yeah, I mean, obviously there's no drill setting or, you know, a mixture of oats, peas, veg, radishes, you know, there just isn't one. And so a lot of people are confused. Well, how do I set my drill? Well, box drills meter out seed not based on weight, but on volume. And the way we, you know, the English system and American agriculture of measuring volume is in bushels. So it becomes important to determine what is your bushel weight. Well, one way of doing that is to have one of these handy dandy little bushel weight apparatus. And, you know, you put seed in here and then you just move this little balance and it'll tell you your bushel weight. And then you basically find something you know, similar on your chart of that bushel weight and set your drill that way. And another way of doing it is to mathematically calculate. Go ahead, Noah. How much are those? I mean, where do you get those? I, we sell them, but how do people get ahold of those? Well, I said, you said it, we sell them. So how much are they? I think they're like $65. So they're, you know, they're, they're a nice investment because you can use those for planting wheat or oats or peas. They'll work for anything. And they're really easy to use. They're, they're made out of plastic. They're fairly tough, but I mean, don't run over them. So, you know, if you got a toolbox or something on your drill, we, we just carry it. We have a big plastic toolbox bolted on the back of our drill. And that just writes back there all the time. And it'll hold up for many, many years as long as you're not stepping on it or dropping it, stuff like that. So 65 bucks, you just have to request it and we can send it out with the seed. Yeah. You can also kind of do a mathematical calculation of about what your bushel weight is. And Noah, can I share my screen? I can kind of run through, I put about six, seven slides together that kind of through the process. Okay. So basically I just put an example here of an OP blend. And so you want to convert this to bushels. So let's just say we have a mix. It's 94 pounds of seed per acre, 64 pounds of oats, and 30 pounds of peas. How do you set the drill? So let's go through the procedure. So we want to convert that into bushels because drills don't plant pounds, they plant bushels. They plant a certain volume when you set them. So oats are 32 pounds of bushel. So the 64 pounds of oats is two bushels. The peas are 60 pounds of bushels. So 30 pounds is half a bushels. So the total is two and a half bushels. And so you just set the drill to the approximate number of bushels. Two and a half bushels would be 80 pounds of oats or 150 pounds of peas. Two and a half times 32 is 80 for the oats. Two and a half times 60 is 150. Obviously two completely different numbers. But if you do both those settings, you'll find out they're almost exactly the same drill setting, even though they're dramatically different numbers. Because of the density, the completely different bushel weight. Now I want to stress this does not replace calibration. And so I'll go through a quick calibration procedure for a box drill. And the things you need, something to catch the seed in, scales and of course the drill. And a means of raising the drill up. If you've got a pull type drill, you'll want to have some jacks, a couple jacks to raise it up so that you can spin the drive wheel freely. And so here's your procedure. Put the seed in the drill. Uh, measure the circumference of your drive wheel. I probably should have put a tape measure or measuring tape on there as well. Um, whatever your drive wheel, if it's an end wheel or, you know, measure that drive wheel. The distance around it. Then raise the drill off the ground, whether it's three point or jacks, uh, whatever it takes to get that drill off the ground. So you can spin the drive wheel, place the tarp underneath the drill, spin the drive wheel. I like to do it a hundred times because it makes the math easier. Um, weigh the seed that's in the tarp and then you just do the math. Your pounds per acre is you just plug it into this equation. Your pounds collected on the tarp and the area is going to be your drill width. That's a 10 foot drill, 30 foot drill times your tire circumference. Your length, your width is of course the drill width and the length that you travel during that calibration is going to be your tire circumference times the number of times you spun. And there's 43,560 square feet in an acre. So you just convert that area that you planted, uh, to acres and that gives you your pounds per acre. So if, if anybody, you know, this is going to be posted, um, uh, so you can review this later if you need to. Yeah. And I'll, I'll note too, Neil and I have a plan here. We're going to try and get a drill calibration video made so that it'll be more in depth and we'll actually probably do that on our drill so that you'll be able to see that. Yeah. And Dale very likely probably just sold about 50 of those little drill calibrators. Cause if you want to, want to go do all that math, just buy some in 65 bucks. Yeah. And those little deals, it's really quick and simple to use. Yeah. And, and, uh, I, I, I used to teach math and people say, well, I'll just pay somebody to do this for me in the future. That's, that's what you're doing right there. That's what we're doing right there. So, yeah. Um, I, I found that nobody has time to calibrate a drill, but everybody has time to drive 400 miles to get two more bags of seed on a seed. Yes. Yes. So it's better to calibrate than to run out and be scrambling and scraping for seed later. It's on the paper. And when you get your, especially if you're getting a tote bag, if we are shipping that, um, and you look in the little plastic holder on the tote, it's going to have your address, the shipping label in there. You have to look behind it to get the seed analysis sheet. And that's where the pounds per acre and eventually the bushel weight for, for the overall mix is going to be as well. Um, most of those bags do not have multiple plastic holders. So we have to put both those pieces of paper, uh, in that one little, um, um, zip lock bag holder thing on the tote.