How and When to Test the Soil for Nutrients on Your Produce Farm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qyLLghOkrwc
Education
 Minnesota specialty crop farmers know that proper fertilization results in healthier crops, higher yields, and healthier soils. In order to maintain healthy fields, farmers should regularly test their soil for nutrients. But how often should farm soil be tested? And what's the best way to test fields on diversified farms with multiple crops? In this video, we'll walk you through different produce growing scenarios to help you decide how and when to test the soil on your farm. First, let's start with the number of soil samples you'll need to take from your farm. Even if you're growing a wide diversity of crops, as long as the soil texture is relatively similar across your farm, you can combine samples from different fields. Some growers choose to take samples from the area where they plan to grow their highest value crops and use that as a baseline for the whole farm. Others take 5 to 10 samples from each field and combine them into one sample. While many farms will be able to test just one combined sample, there are a number of reasons why a farmer might choose to take multiple separate samples. The first reason is soil texture. If you have one field that is relatively sandy and another that's heavier clay, those soils will hold nutrients differently. This is especially common in hilly areas, where hilltops are sandier and valleys are more fine in texture. Another reason for taking multiple samples is if you have multiple fields that are managed differently. If some of your fields are grazed and others are not, if only some receive a cover crop, or if you use different types of fertilizer in different fields, test those fields separately. Finally, high tunnels should be tested separately because they are high value production environments and have a tendency to accumulate salts. Since there is no rainwater to wash nutrients through the soil, nutrients tend to accumulate near the surface and can become damaging to plants in high concentrations. If your soil test shows high concentrations of soluble salts, consider removing the plastic from your tunnel during the winter to allow water accumulation. Another solution is to flood your tunnel in the fall. If you notice one side of your high tunnel performs differently than the other, consider sampling beds individually to check for localized nutrient issues. Next, let's talk about which nutrients to test for and how often. The basic soil test looks at four components, organic matter, pH or acidity, phosphorus, and potassium. You may notice that nitrogen is not included in a basic soil test. This is because nitrogen is highly mobile in the soil and can be hard to test accurately. Nitrogen is bound in organic matter, so the amount of nitrogen you add to your soil will depend on the percentage of organic matter in your soil. Your first soil test will give you a baseline for management. If it shows that your nutrient levels are generally adequate or need only minor adjustments, you will only need to sample your fields every couple of years. But if the test shows that any of these components are significantly higher or lower than they should be, you should take samples annually so you can track your progress as you amend your soil. High tunnels should be sample every year. Fruit and vegetable farms should test for secondary macronutrients and micronutrients like calcium, magnesium, and boron at least once for a baseline measurement. If you suspect deficiency symptoms, get a test before adding more of these nutrients to your soil. Now let's look at how to take your soil samples. To take your composite sample, make sure you're collecting soil that represents the entire top six inches of soil, rather than taking a scoop just from the top. You can do this by using either a core sampler or a handheld trowel. Take multiple samples from the same field or tunnel to get a representative sample. Mix them together, allow the soil to dry, and send a bag of each sample to a soil testing lab, along with any paperwork required by the lab. If you need help interpreting your soil test results once you receive them, reach out to your local Extension Educator or to the Fruit and Vegetable Extension Team. Your test results will help you determine the amount and type of fertilizer needed for healthy plant growth. For Minnesota farms, we recommend using guidelines in the Nutrient Management Guide for Commercial Fruit and Vegetable Growers. Your nutrient management plan should be based on local or regional research when possible. For Minnesota farms, we're going to use the same type of fertilizer to grow. Following these simple steps for soil testing can help ensure that Minnesota's fruit and vegetable farmers grow the highest possible yields of healthy produce for years to come. Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music