Growing Cucumbers vertically ! Growing -Pruning - watering - Fertilizing Tips #greentgarden
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3hUIHHOpH4
Howto & Style
 We're in Long Island, New York, and we only have a short garden season, so we like to get the maximum production in less time. In this video, I'm gonna show you real quick what I keep doing to get the best production. Here, I got my cucumber plants in a nice sunny area. We're getting at least about eight to 10 hours of sunlight. And I got a running up on the trellis, seven feet high. So I have about 20 plants running up, and I have five extra that I'm growing in the front. That's the fertilizer I'm using if I don't add compost. And in that green container, I'm gonna show you what I sprinkle. But this right here, I doubled the twine, coming up the garden twine, and it's been hauling up really good. Cucumber plants could grow easily over seven feet, but the problem is they could grow a lot of side shoots. So that's what I'm gonna explain to you real quick too. Different types of variety of cucumbers, but you can see how they're growing right now here. So if you notice on the bottom of my cucumber plants, there's no leaves touching my soil. Nothing. I prune out all the leaves and all the flowers. Can you pinch out some flowers? Absolutely. If your plants are growing all flowers and no female, all male, you can remove some of the flowers. Flowers will take away the energy of the cucumber plants. But you could see I'm wrapping, guiding my cucumber plants as it's growing upward. This way we're saving tons of space. Now pruning is a big deal, but you have to be careful when you prune. You do not want to remove all your leaves or too much leaves. You could hurt the plant. You have to prune one to two leaves, lower leaves at a time. I remove about at least four leaves on here, but the plant is already probably by four feet high. You could see that. Now when it comes down to the suckers or what do you call the side shoots, side shoots are located between the main stem and the leaf. You're going to find this extra growth part right here. This will produce another cucumber plant. This is the main source and the main way your plant could ever produce more cucumbers. If you remove all of the side shoots, you're not going to have a lot of cucumbers. You're only going to have what the main stem is producing. I always recommend people remove the lower one. Why do we remove the lower one? If we don't remove the lower one, it will grow on the ground. You don't want your leaves to touch the ground. You don't want your cucumbers to touch in the ground. That's you get a high chance of bugs, pests, disease, and a lot of stuff. We prune it out, we get good earflow. Remove at least about one feet, even a little bit more higher if you want. Like we're going to come up all the way here. I remove suckers right through. Prune out two to three lower leaves and remove some of the suckers up to about two feet and leave the top. This way the plant will push through energy upward and blossom. You're going to get cucumbers nonstop. Now the other thing you want to do, do not leave your cucumbers to overripe on the plant. If you leave your cucumbers to overripe, it slows down the production. The plant basically now is going in a slow delay mood. If you harvest on time, the plant will keep pushing more energy and keep growing more cucumbers. When to harvest cucumbers, generally in all type, between five to eight inches. Most of type. These types right here, these are the straight eight. You see right here how we get a lighter green coming up right here and it's still dark. You don't want your cucumber to turn white. Oh, there's a bee pollinate right here. We call him Jimmy. Hey, Jimmy. So you don't want this to turn white. If it turns white, it's going to be overripe. It's going to get a lot of seed in and you don't want that. And then you slow down the production. Now look at this. Beautiful cucumber. Now that we picked this, the plant is going to push up more energy to grow the smaller one. Giving us nonstop production. And as our suckers on the top is growing to the side, it's just going to keep bringing in more. So you have to come and make sure you're harvesting. If you pick your cucumber a little bit early, it's nothing wrong with that. It's more benefit. You get to eat a fresh cucumber while your plant is producing a lot more. Now fertilizer. Garden tone is a really good fertilizer for a cucumber plant too. If you see your cucumbers this small, you need to add fertilizer. And repeat this every two weeks. To do is grab like a handful or a half a handful. Mix it in your soil and just water. Once you water, it'll activate. Do this every two to three weeks. Also what I do on top, I add use coffee ground. If you want to get rid of bugs, I always tell people or answer whatever. You sprinkle a little bit lightly like this. Look, this is what I do. I do it every time. I sprinkle a little bit lightly like that. But if you want to use it as a fertilizer, you water it right away. If not, you come back next two days on water. Water in the morning or water in the afternoon. It all depends on your schedule of your work. When I water, we're in the 80 degrees right now. Water one to two days. I do not make two days. Stick your finger in the soil. If it's too hard, can't go wrong, you gotta water. Cucumber plant has to keep a little bit moist, but not too much of water. If you see your leaves are turning yellow, your cucumbers are gonna be turning yellow and falling off. It's way too much of water. So you cannot add too much water. Just a little bit of water every one to two days. If you're in the 70s, you could water every two days. That's fine. If you're in the 80s to 90s, I would say do it one time a day, lightly in the evening time. Cucumber will grow between 70 degrees to 85 degrees. They'll grow the best. If you go over 85 degrees, it gets really hot. Sometimes it burns the sun leaf. Sometimes it stresses the plant and if you don't water on time, you're gonna realize some of your fruit will fall out. So that's another thing you gotta be careful. But growing cucumber vertically like this, you save a lot of space and you could grow. It's a little spot and I grow over 25 plants easily. I harvest hundreds of cucumbers every summer. Here's my raised bed. You could see, look, cucumbers are ready here. Look at that. I'm gonna be harvesting these. Greenhouse, I have cucumbers running upward right now. Look at that. Look at that. That's a bottle of gourd right there. Look at that. Beautiful. Remember, add water about every one to two days. Depends on the temperature. Fertilize every two to three weeks. Sprinkle some used coffee ground if you get. And harvest on time. Don't let your plant waste too much energy. I could talk so much more about cucumber plants, but I'm gonna cut it out because I realize I've been talking too much. Water every two to three days. But if it's really hot every one to two days, you have to water. Cucumber plants love water, but do not overwater. You have to make sure you're holding the hose maybe about 10, 15 seconds. That's about it. Don't pass, you know, 30 seconds of water. I think that's way too much, especially if you're gonna water every day or every other day. But if you're gonna do three days, you could, you know, deeply water every three days. I think what happened is a lot of people said, hey, water your cucumber plants. It needs a lot of water. And a lot of people get, you know, take that literally and they water too much. And then you realize your leaves are turning yellow. Your fruits are falling out. And you wonder what happened. That could be happening. You're watering too much. People don't realize watering affects your garden a lot. You have to be careful. I'm old school. I don't have any drip line. I water manually with a hose. I enjoy doing it. And I know exactly what I'm doing. And I water every single, even in time right now, that's when I water. Kind of like hydrate the plants back and bring it back to good. You have to feed your plants. Cucumber plants, you have to feed them. You have to add your fertilizer. Add your fertilizer and that will help feed the plant and produce a lot. So I sprinkle you some used coffee ground to give it an extra boost, which works like magic. Trust me, used coffee ground works like magic to a lot of the plants, especially cucumber plants. Any question, comment below. I love to answer your question. If I miss any comment, I do apologize. YouTube, unfortunately, I have to always click in the top where I have to go back to reply message and stuff. And what I realized, certain message, if YouTube counts your video as a spam or something, it will be held for review. So I have to go through all that. So I did not go through all that yet. So if I miss your comment, I do apologize. All right. Thank you to everyone who's been watching and subscribed Green Tea Garden. You can see I'm sweating and dying. It's really hot out here. I do appreciate you. And we have a lot of more garden videos coming up. If you're new, please don't forget to click the red subscribe button, followed by the bell icon. I got more video. Comment below. I love to answer your question. Thank you so much for watching Green Tea Garden. You guys enjoy your weekend. Thank you.