How Thai Farmers Harvest Millions of Tons of Fresh Coconut Every Year
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R8VOlS9rhQ0
Education
 Hello and welcome back to the Fructus Channel. Thailand has a massive agricultural sector producing a wide range of fruits, vegetables, and peppers. One of the biggest cash crops of all is the coconut. In fact, in 2022 alone, Thailand produced nearly 680 million metric tons of this tropical fruit. While the palm trees that produce coconuts are native to the area, running a coconut farm is no easy task. Plantations can be small or cover hundreds of acres of land, necessitating dozens of workers. Many larger plantations utilize a canal system to make watering the trees easier. This also allows for navigation by boat, which can save a lot of time. Time for three months, about the Él jij 먹ers 2 k1 of the year.ее. The resaste last plant within the interval is the middle garden toosseous coaster work. I am a human being. I am a human being. I am a human being. I am a human being. I am a human being. I am a human being. During the harvest, workers carefully inspect the coconuts to determine which ones are ready for harvesting. They then use long poles to remove ripe coconut bunches from the trees, letting them fall directly into the water. The harvested coconuts are then tied together into long bunches, making it easier to float them around the plantation. But we actually kind of manage the plant. If you at the port, the corn, millet, the sons... Coconut palms have a continuous flowering cycle, which allows for year-round harvesting. It's also common for a single tree to have multiple batches of coconuts at different stages of maturity. Many of the farms are family run, with everyone living right on the property. Generally, everyone in the family helps out in some way, from inspection to removal to peeling and packaging. The ripe coconuts are towed around the canals until they are all gathered. Then, they are taken out of the water to be prepared. Some will be peeled and sold, others will be used for water or oil, and still others will be kept whole for later sale. Though the harvesting process is very manual, many modern coconut farms utilize machinery whenever possible to save time. Peeling coconuts, for instance, is a time-intensive job. A peeling machine can significantly cut down on labor costs. The peeled coconuts are then packed by other members of the family. The peeled coconuts are then packed by other members of the family. The peeled coconuts are then packed by other members of the family. The peeled coconuts are then packed by other members of the family. They can also live between 60 and 80 years. Many farms will also sell sprouted seeds as a second form of income. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Coconut farmers will often spend a fair amount of their time selling their ware directly at markets. Peeling whole coconuts and other products. Out here, peeling needs to be done the hard way, with a machete. And you can see the next day, with a machete. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. You're welcome. I've been waiting for you. I'm going to take a look. The results are very impressive, however. Buyers can get an entire fresh coconut to themselves, from the water to the delicious meat, typically for under $2. Learning to carve a coconut properly takes time, but many farmworkers have long since become experts. Ultimately, coconuts are not just a crop. They're a huge part of Thai culture and cuisine. Though many coconuts are exported to the US, India and other regions, Thailand alone consumes several hundred million tons annually. That's the end of this video. We hope you enjoyed it. Make sure to subscribe to this channel so you don't miss any of our new content. See you next time! See you next time!