Stacking Cover Crops Benefits with Jim Stute
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RBuOtelbYss
Education
 Thank you for coming. So yeah, drought, we're going to talk a lot about that. Amongst other things, so we're going to focus on financials primarily. I've got a couple of confessions to make and I will make those in a minute, but first a quiz just so I can get to learn the audience better. So I'm assuming this is the strip till conference. You're all strip tillers, right? Any no tillers? No tillers. All right. Cover crop users. How many people have used cover crops, tried them, and quit? How many are thinking about it? So a few. Be proud when you say we're thinking about it. So you are my audience today. So the people that are using cover crops, you think you've got a benefit. You can see from the combine cab to the line where you planted cover and where you didn't have it. I've got data for you, but really my audience both, my target audience both here and in my other presentations is for people that are thinking about cover cropping, but they're worried about the economics, whether it's yield reduction or added expense of the cover crop or implications related to weed control. That's really the heart of my research and outreach program now and I'll talk about that again. But that's what we're going to talk about and so mostly it's financial in nature. Anyone here from SARE? So let me put the plug in for SARE. This is labeled as, and I want to thank SARE and LECIDIR for inviting me here. So this is really a SARE farmer forum. So I'm on a speaker bureau. A lot of my funding comes from SARE and so we speak at various conferences around the country talking about the SARE program and the good work that they're doing. So I am an independent research agronomist. This is my third growing season as an independent. My past affiliations are two stints as a county-based extension educator in southeast Wisconsin and also two stints with Michael Fields Institute, which is a non-profit that works in the area of sustainable agriculture in east Troy, Wisconsin, southeast Wisconsin. I was initially a research agronomist there, did a lot of work in cover crops and more recently in a position I left to become an independent was the research director. I currently in kind of a combined role professionally and also as a farmer. I'm a member of my local producer-led watershed protection group. So really there are several of these groups. There's like 40 of them in the state of Wisconsin. And really it's a bunch of like-minded farmers who are really interested in conservation and soil health. And so this movement in Wisconsin got started several years ago and it's a place where we get together informally and share information. And then I'm also just a fun fact a member of the soil health subcommittee of the Wisconsin NRCS technical committee. So I work with a lot of agency folks on issues related to soil health. So I've been at this a long time. If you include graduate school, I've been working in cover crop arena since 1989 and I'll tell you with all that experience I have more questions than I do answers. Every time that we start researching a topic and farmers come to us with issues or maybe they're leading with technologies that always raises more questions and so that keeps keeps us employed as researchers and it keeps things interesting. So my past research, past work, when I started there was little known about cover cropping in the state of Wisconsin. So I did a lot of work on species screening, what works here. That led us more into management and my particular focus of interest is in nitrogen management. So I worked in nitrogen crediting and also in nutrient management implications, especially when we started seeing a lot of winter rye used on dairy farms. I have subsequently, well let me back up. So this information is all out there. If you're having trouble sleeping at night, you can look at the research literature and you'll see that I've published there. But my emphasis in publication is in formats that will get into farmer hands. So and again, no one here from SARE, but I'd like to plug this book here, Managing Cover Crops Profitably. This is a national publication I worked on initially as a contributor, but also contribute data to it under its revisions and it's currently being revised. So it's going into the fourth revision. I've got several University of Wisconsin Extension publications, but most of my work is incorporated in Wisconsin, University of Wisconsin Extension fertility recommendations. And that gets to phasferous and potassium removal as well as nitrogen credit for the cover crops. My current topics like I said, I am now solely focused on economics and this relates to weed suppression but primarily to the yield response of cover crops because all of the social science data that's out there says that of cover crop non-users it's the finances that prevent people from using them so that's why I'm working on that arena now I'm in that arena now I'm working on yield effects and the related economics I'm working on weed suppression but then also on a conservation component so from all my on-farm research I collect conservation performance information that feeds into the software programmers and the modelers for the different models that estimate the cover crops role in reduction of nutrient and sediment loss where does that build into into the phosphorus trade so finance ultimately it's financial so if you can cut or if you can trade for phosphorus because you've done the right thing and you've cut your phosphorus losses then that's financial so I'm very active in that and I mentioned serious support I've gotten support throughout my career from various different programs because this is a SARA farmer focus or forum I feel the need to talk a little bit about my farm but this is also important because about 50 percent of the research that I've done in the past has been done on my farm a lesser extent now because my on-farm research program has grown but I'm in Walworth County in southeast Wisconsin 30 miles roughly southeast of southwest of Milwaukee I'll show you my location on a map in a minute so I'm on the family farm it's a typical dairy farm for southeast Wisconsin we skipped a generation so when my parents my grandparents retired from dairy farming the farm was rented out on a cash lease basis 30 years 25 30 years roughly of going from a dairy rotation soil conserving rotation to a corn soybean rotation with a lot of tillage so when I started farming there in 94 I inherited a soil health nightmare and so for the past almost 30 years I've been working to uh to build that up we'll talk about that journey a little bit um as we go so the soil type is very common to the area it's a lighter glacial soil it's a fox so loam on my farm I've got a slopes absolutely flat ground but most of it's rolling four to six percent slope I've got some highly erodible land and this picture here shows you pretty much typical um uh scene from my farm with a red clover cover crop um the thing to know about my farm is that I've got 18 inches to 24 inches of topsoil and subsoil and that's perched over gravel so I don't have available moisture holding capacity my moisture holding capacity is very limited so that definitely plays into everything I think about as far as farm management my cover crop history I started all with cover crops right off the bat uh three crop rotation corn soybeans wheat I interceded red clover in the wheat because I was interested in the nitrogen question I for financial reasons quit growing wheat in 2012 so I switched to corn and beans and I sat out for of the cover crop world for a couple of years but back into uh rye planted into corn stalks before soybeans to me that is the no-brainer there's no yield penalty in the in the soybeans and let's be frank we're going to talk about dryness you have dry years you're not taking up all the applied nitrogen you want to keep it on your farm and in a form it'll become available to subsequent crops instead of losing it to uh to leaching 2002 the current growing season based on some data I'm going to show you next slide I planted the entire farm except for areas I'm saving for research trials into winter rye and that's specifically to deal with the crazy weather that we're experiencing experiencing recently uh my tillage journey I started out conventional farmer till till till I phased in no-till I've been on 100 no-till since 2003 so this is the 20th growing season as a no-till farmer I forgot to tell you give you my confession I have strip tilled 20 acres that doesn't make me a strip till farmer uh all the data that I'm going to show you is coming from uh from no-till I will tell you I've got a couple in my big project I've got a couple of strip tillers in there and I'll talk about how how they're incorporating uh cover crops into their strict till system but all the data that I'm showing you is um is from no-till the other confession is that um because this is a SAR farmer forum they want us to talk about current projects so I've got one completed project I'm going to talk about with actual data the other two are projects that are in process so I can show you what we've got so far but no firm recommendations all right my motivation for cover crops on my farm right now it's strictly tactical and it's adaptive management how do we deal with extremes in precipitation so the graph there is the growing season precipitation almost 30 years of data from my farm on the top it's the season total for the growing season so that's April 1st through October 31st and then on the bottom it's the three tender line months of the growing season June July and August so these graphs show a couple of things so here's the mean so the average that's the black line there and then the annual variation the mean the average do we do we farm for average do we strive for average from a risk management standpoint maybe but no we want to be above average here's the other thing I'll say about average and you've all heard this the statistician can drown in an average water depth of three inches right it's not the average we're interested in we're interested in the spread so the high and the low and it's going to come up in all my data and I'll say about average and I'll say about the average of the year and then we're interested in the last four years and this is what's really driving me the wettest and the second wettest year on my farm as well as the driest year so this is the benchmark year you all think about the dry year the drought of 2012 right to me that was um the benchmark 2021 almost two inches less precipitation than we had in uh in the drought year here's the other thing uh 2020 right here we ended up a little bit below average the actual precipitation in that year happened in garbage time when the crop couldn't use it anymore so a football analogy would be okay so we got rainfall in the fourth quarter the football analogy is okay we're down 56 to nothing we score 14 points against the third string defense who cares statistically it shows that hey maybe that year wasn't bad but I would argue from a moisture standpoint it was just as bad as last year's uh drought which was uh an official drought here's the other thing let's look at the tenderloin months June July and August so these are the monthly totals and you can see we got some variation of the data and you would expect that you get a wet June you get a dry June look at this 2007 it's like you flipped a switch suddenly the amplitude the variability has increased it's almost doubled and we've got months where we're getting 10 inches of rain followed by months where we're getting almost nothing embedded in this data is 300 year storms what's a 100 year storm a storm of sufficient intensity and rainfall amount that it only happens once every 100 years that's the probability I've got three of them in a span of 15 years that really influences crop production and also as I think about my crops how I'm going to manage them that's why everything on my farm this year going into the growing season was planted with a cover crop to help me manage this variability and the moisture so we use what we call adaptive management with the cover crops if it's dry what do you do you terminate early so this picture is from 20 or 2021 last year a declared drought in our area this comes from a cooperating farmer of mine who's also a crop consultant his name is Tom Novak so this is part of a long-term trial that he's had on his farm to prove the value of the of the cover crops to his clients and it's a real simple trial with and without cover he collects the yield data and he shares it with his clients if it's a wet year we terminate later we let that cover crop use the moisture dry the soil out this is my farm this year and it worked it worked all around me I live in no-till nor nirvana everyone around me no-tills but I'm the one that uses the cover crops I let it go I was in the field planting a full two days sooner than my neighbors which is important when you have five inches of rain in April and you haven't gotten anything done in the field everything's all compressed the sooner you can get out there the better off you are remember this picture we're going to circle back and look at it in just a minute so you got to have the rye in place to do adaptive management even if you terminate early there is a benefit to it and I'm going to show you data that shows that there's weed suppression but also there's a yield benefit even from something that has such little amount of biomass here's Tom's data corn yield no rye and rye averaged across two different trials which are basically nitrogen rate trials a four and a half bushel yield advantage to the cover crop he also saw some yield suppression he also had or not yield suppression weed suppression he also has the same thing in soybeans and his soybean yield he had a bump of four four point three percent so he got a yield advantage but had it turned out wet he could have terminated later and use it to manage soil moisture we also and he's a cooperator on this trial and I'm going to talk about this this is one of my weed management trials so we had three different treatments at three different locations in southeast Wisconsin where we had a control no rye we had rye terminated let's call it burn down and where we planted green and terminated later in the season in the case of the no rye versus rye very little yield difference and the thing that's really intriguing to me we talked about the spread in the data not the mean statistically the means are the same in fact we got a slight yield bump but look at the spread in the data with the rye it was a lot tighter and again this is averaged over three locations three different farms compared to the the no rye so that's telling us there's something there with the rye that's either enhancing weed suppression or yield let's go back to the uh the original drought and this is where I became convinced that cover crops have great value to deal with drought so up until this past year 2012 was by far the driest year that we had had on my farm at the time I had a I was in the fourth year of a nitrogen response trial looking at the nitrogen response of corn to supplemental nitrogen after a red clover cover crop and this is what the system looked like so this is going into the season this is at time of planting and then this is an in season what I had was basically a mat that helped with infiltration but also a cut evaporation losses so it helped me capture water and store it and this is what the crop looked like in season I unfortunately did not have a no cover control in this trial but I had data to compare it to and that was the pre pre the three previous years which turns out in southeast Wisconsin were really good cropping years so at harvest time I looked back at the yield from the pre three previous years and guess what 80 percent of what I had in good years so that was kind of compelling but I thought well let's look at the rest of the county so I took NASS data from Walworth County this is all the corneal data non-irrigated but it includes all practices so based on my knowledge of the neighborhood I'll tell you this is all conventionally tilled there's a little bit of no-till in there a little bit of cover crops mostly this is conventional their yield in 2012 compared to the three previous really good years 62 percent so I'm like 20 percent better with my cover crop and I attribute that all to managing the moisture that I got all right my motivation right now is tactical but my primary reasons and the reasons that I grow cover crops they remain basically the same I'm looking for the ecosystem services both general but some very specific ones soil health that's a gimme I drunk the soil health kool-aid long ago I don't worry about testing for it I know it's there how do I know I have soil health I can see the earthworm castings on the soil surface I know I can close my slots I know my soil breaks apart freely I know I don't have ponding that I get really good infiltration and I know that leads me to yield enhancement I'm also interested because of my soil nature in increased surface residue both for infiltration but also to cut evaporation early in the season I'm also interested in in season biomass production for weed suppression so I can cut herbicide application not rates but number of applications and I'll show you some data what happened this year in a little bit and I'm also interested in nutrient retention not only nitrogen but also increasingly in phosphorus so in Wisconsin there's a group that's affiliated with the university it's called discovery farms and they've done a lot of on-farm monitoring of runoff from different farming scenarios what their monitoring shows is that in no-till we're not losing sediment but our Achilles heel as far as surface water quality is concerned is soluble phosphorus so now I'm thinking about ways I can use cover crops to cut the soluble phosphorus on my home farm it's not really a big deal because I number one drain internally about 70 percent of my farm drains internally the runoff water that leaves the farm goes to the marsh and it has to travel through several thousand feet of marsh which is going to capture that phosphorus before it gets to the rain channel to the main channel my problem is on rental ground and that's this picture right here so I've got one field it's a small field but I like it because it's relatively uniform and I do a lot of research on this field it's got a swale that runs right through the middle it runs to the edge of the field it crosses six inches of mowed lawn and then right into a gully which plunges over the course of only a couple hundred feet 60 feet down into the marsh it goes through like 50 feet of marsh goes into a pond that has a channel that gets it into the main channel which means it gets into the McQuonago river why am I so concerned about the McQuonago river it has a designation by Wisconsin DNR has an exceptional to outstanding water resource not only because of water quality but also because it's home to several endangered species so the DNR has a lot of interest in it a lot of the conservation groups have huge interest in my watershed which means as a farmer I am under the microscope as far as what happens on my farm and what could potentially end up in the in the river the other thing to say like all of you my overarching reason for using conservation is for the next generation so I can pass the farm on to the next generation in better shape than I found it all right economics my primary justification I mean I talk to farmers all the time so I know economics are the the bottom line of the decision not to implement cover cropping my justification for grant purposes is this so the folks at SARE along with the conservation tillage information center have conducted a periodic survey for the last 10 years to look at farmers use of cover crops or non-use they want to look at the motivation but primarily what are the barriers and so every two years they publish the survey it's the same results of the non-survey of the non-users every time there is no demonstrated economic benefit to me I interpret that as we don't have good data we don't have numbers from acceptable side by side comparison there's a lot of anecdotal evidence out there there's a lot of testimonial farmer Jim will say yeah I got a five percent yield response to it people want to see the data so that's why I am data driven they are in my research program fear of yield reduction added cost and time commitment complicates management especially weeds and increased risk all those are valid concerns and reasons not to do it what's really interesting in this survey is among the cover crop users they say the exact opposite hey we're seeing a yield increase corn especially in a drought year corn up to almost 10 percent soybean up almost to 12 percent those higher numbers those all came from the first year of the survey the drought response year of 2012. the users say we get improved weed control we can cut our input costs including herbicide planting green boy this is the greatest thing it allows earlier planting in wet years like on my farm this past year like I talked about and it may prevent us from having prevented plant acres because it dries it out enough that we can plant so that's the data and then just to add a little bit of richness to the data this little sidebar here I looked at evaluations from a winter workshop my uh producer group put on this winter and got actual comments from farmers who would listen to Gabe Brown talk for six hours about regenerative practices and here's what they had to say you know the practices are great but how do I actually implement these practices and remain profitability remain profitable so there it is profitability the next one how do I implement regenerative practices without losing money initially to me that gets at the fact that people have a perception that maybe there's a transition period which ties into the third one what about rental ground so most ground at least in the state of Wisconsin at least on three-year leases so if there's a perception there's a transition period and you're going to have a yield loss initially why would you do it also why would you want to improve the soil on rental ground when you know you could be outbid and you could lose the lease so one of the things I'm keenly interested in is first year effect showing we can have a yield impact the first year all right so let's put a number on it so these are the three SARE projects that I have that are related to economics the first one do cover crops pay this one is complete but this is the rationale for the second one the second and the third one can cover crops pay and do can planting green suppress our troublesome glyphosate tolerant or resistant weeds and no-till soybean as I said this is a work in progress I will show you completed data I will show you the data that we've gotten from the trial so far but no recommendations it is what it is you can look for updates at the SARE site and Lestatier is going to publish it I put down no-till farmer I didn't know about strip till farmer or cover crop what's the other one cover crop your third publication cover crop cover crop strategies it'll be in there somewhere right all right do cover crops pay this was a really fun project so the this was funded by the producer grant program our partnership program it's a two-year funding cycle I was able to get federal funding from another source so I stretched it into into three years again conducted in southeast Wisconsin three different counties it's a replicated strip till trial it's got a formal experimental design and a real simple treatment design with cover without cover here's the fun thing about it I had a protocol as far as me collecting data and how I was going to do it as far as the cover crop management that was up to the farmers and there's a lot of wisdom in doing that because farmers know how to manage cover crops crops we'll talk about the universities later later on in the session anyway they know what they're doing let them do it here's the ball who play kids we're going to collect some data we did a financial analysis we use partial budget analysis so we're just looking at additional costs and returns there's no assumptions in it it's just the two practices side by side and I use the cooperators input costs as well as their output prices the differences between the systems are primarily in cover crop costs so there's additional costs of the seed the establishment management if necessary like clipping and then termination costs one thing that's kind of unique to this research and this economic research was we also looked at interest charges so you think about it most of the cover trials use winter rye you plant rye in November of one year you don't have access to the grain income till November of the next year you've got one year of carry on that money so it's important to carry that we also looked at the yield increase and the cost of that if you have a yield bump that's free money right the answer is no you still gotta haul it you gotta dry it you gotta shrink it and you have to account for P and K removal so we did all of that to come up with our break-even numbers and some other things which are on this slide so at the end of the day we ended up with 14 site years of data so that's like having 14 little farms scattered across three different growing seasons. We saw positive yield response 75 percent of the time and that's important because it matches what Tom Novak has been doing in that trial I showed a couple slides ago that he's been conducting for the last 10 years. He in corn and beans are seeing a positive yield response about 75 percent of the time. So here's the raw data this is the corn and this is the soybean. On average our corn yield response 2.1 percent soybeans a little better 2.3 percent so the average is represented by the x on the graph. Average is great what I'm really interested in is the variability. Soybean much less variable than the corn and if I look at that corn data I'm seeing a lot of upside potential. So in a lot of academic studies they won't talk about the variability they'll just talk about the average. We're going to talk about the variability the upside potential as well as the downside potential. Sir? So in this trial it was very good questions and the question is what were the cover crops? Most of it was rye combination of after corn or after soybean so whatever the farmer pretty much typically does. A couple of the sites also and this was two site years on my farm after after red clover and then another location had after red clover but primarily it was corn bean rotation with winter rye after one or the other. So when we run the numbers based on our yield responses and based on current market conditions at the time we weren't close to um to break in we needed a yield response of 5.7 in corn 5.3 in soybeans to break even. That means we need to figure out under then market conditions what's driving the responses here and here. So that led to the next generation trial but before we do that I just want to look at a couple of the really interesting little cases from this trial. All right it takes forever to get a yield response right? No you can see it first year here's proof positive. So this is on a kid or so alone this is the first year of the trial winter rye after soybeans um it's a no-till situation the pictures are taken here close up in a field shot taken the day of term termination when I was there to do the sampling to characterize the conservation performance. Not a lot of biomass there 400 pounds we did in soil sampling realized that we were able to scavenge some leftover nitrogen now this is going into corn so maybe that wasn't a good thing but even that little bit of growth rye growth we're able to scavenge 30 pounds of nitrogen to me from a conservation standpoint that's huge. Cooperator Nick here never grew a cover crop in his life. At the end of the day 9.9 bushel yield increase 5.3 percent he grows cover crops now based on that one experience. This is not the most spectacular one but I think this one is more representative. The most spectacular I'll get to you in a second sure most spectacular 18 bushel that was corn following red clover. He too had grown it on his farm but he quit doing it guess what he went back to putting red clover in his winter wheat even though it's kind of hard to manage and that's an expensive system he is doing it now. Question or comment here? Okay so most of these are after harvest in this trial they were all drilled after harvest so we're looking at November I mean in the case of soybeans yeah you can do it in October but realistically it's in in November so I told you I'm going to run out of time. Yeah 1025 here most of them are in that window. These guys know that you've got to get it in the ground but things get in the way like harvest so. Is there a lot of aerial application that goes on there? Yes and no. How about you folks do you have aerial application? So drones? Okay so we're getting more and more of that uh the drone phenomenon we're starting to see more and more of that in Wisconsin. I got rumors of two startups in southeast Wisconsin that will be doing it. That works. There's a timing issue there I don't have time to get into the technicality but I'll talk about that in the after session how about that or at the beer and thingy tonight. I gotta keep rolling. So this one here this one is really intriguing this shows adaptive management wet spring this is 2019. The site has a long-term cover crop history two covers every three years so a summer cover after wheat followed by rye after after corn stubble. He had planned to burn down couldn't do it because it rained. I did sample in the rain three weeks later he uh he planted green and then he terminated. What did he get? 3.7 yield response 3.7 percent yield response was that because of planting green? Was it because the non-cover was in withdrawal? I don't know. What's really intriguing about this site was I came back in the middle of the season in the no cover control treatments there was water hemp. In the cover treatments there was no water hemp. Can we use this plan in green to suppress our troublesome glyphosate resistant weeds? We'll get to that at the end. That led us that experience led us to my current project. So can cover crops pay? Very much it's like the other one except it's much larger and scale. We're documenting the yield impacts but we're really drilling in on first year impacts but we're also looking at the cumulative effects. We're still trying to identify the best management practices to maximize yield and on the flip side to look at practices to avoid so you don't reduce yield. We're putting a number on it with a partial partial budget analysis. We're going to generate a lot of data analysis. This one I am punting to campus so we have an extension ag economist who will do the economic analysis and we're also collecting the conservation estimates in an effort to improve the numbers for water quality trade so the farmers that do this do get compensated for it. At the farm level in effect what we've got annually is 30 little on-farm trials where we're answering a specific question that a farmer may have. What about my seeding rate or what about if I'm planting corn green what about nitrogen management? Should I increase my starter fertilizer nitrogen because the rise presumably going to take some of it up? So for the farmer those are the questions that we're asking. We take all that data in aggregate we do a meta-analysis we can tease out what causes the yield impact. Is it this practice on this soil type in this environment? So our goal is to get 90 site years of data over three response years. That's pretty close to big data. Let me back up. This trial is a little more involved. We have the no cover control trial. We also to look at the management factors. We have two different cover treatments. The farmer's base treatment and then some variation on that. The best example is seeding rate. So if I seed rye at 40, what happens if I seed at 80? Actually it's the other way around. So NRCS says you got to have in the state of Wisconsin says you need to have higher seeding rates than probably what you really need. So I'm doing 80. Can I get away with 40? Especially since rye seed prices have basically doubled in the last couple of years. So that's the nature of the treatment design. So fun facts. We had a goal of 30 trials to put out this past year. We got out 29. We lost one of them because of poor rye establishment and that was in the soybean stubble planted in the first week in December. 27 of the 28 are cereal rye. We do have one winter wheat. You always have to have a contrarian out there. He got some really cheap seed. He's got a really good stand of cover crop. More power to them. Most of the trials are looking at response in soybean, but we do have seven that are corn following soybean. And then interestingly, we've got three that's second year corn. And one of those is in a trial that I'm doing with my watershed group. The comparisons, what are farmers really interested in? It's rate. And I think this is driven since it's mostly rye by the fact that rye supplies have gotten really tight and the seed costs have gone up dramatically. We've got some interest in termination timing, whether it's the burndown or the pre-plant and then nitrogen management and corn. And this is a picture from one of my sites. This is Dodge Coney. He's looking at seeding rate, but he's also, this is a double trial. So he's also looking at skip row planting. So this is going to in row versus between row. So when I say row, crop row. So this is going to yield some really interesting results. And here's a map just showing where the trials are located. I put this up to show the magnitude. We're in six or sorry, five different counties. I told you this is my farm right here. I've got a bunch of it because it's easy to do research on your own farm. You don't have to travel unlike up here in the Dodge County. So basically we're in a triangle. What this gives us is two different things. Growing season environment. And we have definitely segregated environments. Keeps raining up here in Dodge County. We're in drought down here. We're seeing in Kenosha County, extremely dry here in Rock County. We're somewhere in between. We have the best soil types in the state of Wisconsin, Plano Silt Loam. We also have Kitter Sandy Loam. That's on the well-drained soil class. We also have some very poorly drained soils here in Dodge County, Pella, and then some Elliott's and tile drain, other tile-drained soil types in in Racine County. All right, last topic. And this again is based on that first one in the observation that, hey, there's no water hemp where we planted the rye green. Can we suppress glyphosate resistant weeds in no-till soybean? These are the weeds that we're concerned with in southeast Wisconsin. Giant rag. This is a field picture and a close-up of a resistant individual. This is on my farm. This population was just confirmed by UW-Madison two weeks ago. It also has multiple other resistances, which I don't understand because I haven't used those modes of action on my farm. And on my farm, as far as glyphosate stewardship, I have done everything right. I have never used the Roundup Ready trait in corn. My presumption is that this is pollen that blew in from somewhere else. The other one, marestail, this one is all over confirmed resistance for about the last 10 years. Now in southeast Wisconsin, these two pictures are from Tom Novak's from his clients, and they show in the field this one with the marestail. You can see the susceptible versus the resistant individuals and then a close-up of the resistant individuals and then waterhemp. These plants are taken from the same field. Obvious case of resistance. We don't have Palmer amaranth yet. I just submitted a seed sample from some camelina seed I used as a cover crop with my rye on my farm last year. I just got a call two days ago from Foundation Seed. I sent it in for analysis. Purity and germination. We have amaranth seed in there. Will you pay for DNA testing for four seeds? That's a hundred bucks. Absolutely. Palmer amaranth, it's on the horizon. We've got it in Illinois, just across the Illinois border. You folks dealing with it yet? Let's hope it... You did? Southern Iowa. That's another thing just to watch and be careful of because that one... The experience in the southern United States is something we don't want to deal with, but it's on its way. Where's your seeds? Produced on farm by one of my co-operators. I cleaned it, but the seed's smaller than the uh camelina seed and I don't have official cleaning equipment. I did a window screen so it's there. Did he have it on his farm? I don't know. I haven't talked to him yet about it. I wait until I get the positive or negative results before I spook him. All right, so the last trial, we're looking at wheat suppression and basically this is the same group of co-operators as in the first one. So this is funded by the SARA partnership program. Two-year, we have four locations and then four replicates. So we're going to generate a lot of data. We have three basic treatment sets. The first one is the control treatment. This is no rye and we are using best management practices for management of the resistant weeds. So we start clean. That means complete burn down glyphosate plus some kind of growth regulator herbicide to control the ones that are resistant. So we used LV6 last year. This year, because of our tightened up planting window and I didn't want to have planting restrictions, we used enlist. All these trials are using the enlist trade and then we used residuals. So the generic version of authority for same thing as sonic. I can't pronounce the common names with all of you looking at me. In fact, I wrote them down. I can't read my own writing. So you all know what I'm talking about, right? All right. The next set is the first cover crop treatments. These that were burning down, but on our data it's labeled as pre-emergence. Why call it that? Some people burned down beforehand. Some people planted, then terminated right away. Here we have two rye treatments, 40 and 80 pounds to get at the seeding rate and we use the same herbicide. So the glyphosate that's in the burndown mix also terminates the rye. The plant and green treatments, same rye treatments, 40 and 80. We're using the broadleaf burndown, so they enlist the growth regulator herbicide to control the broadleaf weeds that are there and the residual and we come back with the glyphosate to terminate the rye. The rye we're terminating at pollination. So in effect in our data set we have the two polar extremes. We have the minimum amount of rye growth pre-plant that we burn down or at anthesis and there's some implications to that I'm going to talk about in a minute. Our questions of course, can rye do it? What about the termination timing? Is that important? And what about the seeding rate? Does it matter? Especially since seed has gotten to be so expensive. So here's our one year of results so far and again 2021 this was a drought year. Suppression? Yes, both in marestail and giant ragweed. Waterhemp did not show up to the party last year. It showed up this year but we don't have data from it from last year. Going from no rye to the the plant green and terminate late treatment in marestail and this is measured 45 days after planting. Marestail 98% suppression in the giant rag 99% suppression. So yes, it does work. What about the the burn down? Yes, we're seeing suppression there also in the case of marestail 64% suppression and in the case of the giant rag 50% suppression. The other thing question comment. Were these the 80 pound seeding rate or 40 pound seeding rate? So you peeked ahead at my next slide. So let me say I should have said this up front. Where at 50 is nothing but 50 made a big difference. Should I be at that age? Okay, so the honest answer is and this is counterintuitive. Seeding rate had no impact on any of our response variables other than biomass production. So that makes sense. You got more plants you're going to produce more biomass. What is counterintuitive is we assume it's that biomass that's giving us the weed suppression either through competition or as a residue mat to keep the weeds down from germinating or physically to inhibit them. And then there's the issue of allelopathy. So what the research literature says that the chemicals that are in the biomass they reach their peak concentration right at pollination. You got more biomass a higher concentration that natural herbicide is there. It makes sense. You got more biomass you'd have better weed suppression. Planting rate doesn't matter. Recently published studies by Penn State University. There's two of them. They looked at the same thing basically the same seeding rates. They found the same effect. Biomass yes. Any crop response variable no. So you can cut your seeding rate. But I shouldn't say that because there's only one year of data. But going back to the other on-farm data they're all doing 40 pounds. So NRCS in Wisconsin requires for cost share programs 55 pounds. Iowa, Illinois are you in the I heard 40? 46. Yeah, of course. Yeah, of course. Okay. Yeah, right. Then you gotta you gotta boost it. That makes sense. So we're all in the same ballpark. But the point is that it didn't. Okay, so we saw a 98% reduction by planting green. Now I can't show you the data. You've already seen it in that soybean yield. We're also by planting green and terminatingly able to suppress soybean yield by 29% in a drought year. That's unacceptable. So I told you we got the two polar extremes of biomass production. There's a sweet spot in there somewhere in between and that's my next generation work. So people are looking at my data and they heckle me at field days all the time. You're killing it too late. Well, no, this is a formal trial. We're trying to see what the degree of suppression is. Somewhere between the two is the sweet spot where we're not impacting yield, but we're getting the weed suppression. That's what I'm looking for. And my questions are, how do we stage it? Do we stage it based on rye growth stage? Do we base it on height? Because people are saying when it gets knee high, you terminate it. Do we base it on the soybean growth stage? So I got to figure out funding. You say folks, I'm coming back to you this fall and figure out how to do it. This is a really involved trial. I can't do it on farm. Most is going to have to be done on my farm because you're going to have to be terminating like every five to seven days, a different treatment. So anyway, and here that's where we're going with this data. So here's the seeding rate thing matches work by Penn State. What our data doesn't show you is that Plain and Green delayed the flush, the mid-season flush of weeds. It delayed it. The implication here is that if you're suppressing, maybe you can get away with one in-season post-emergence application versus two. I've got guys in my neighborhood that are on three. I'm sure they're up against the limit on their list as far as total active ingredient per year. On my farm, I showed you that picture. I got away in most of the field with one application, but this is actually a really interesting story. So this is the field that I got all my soybean research in. I went to terminate a couple weeks after planting. It was turning dry. I started getting concerned. I opened the field up. It got dark. So I thought, okay, I'm going to start spraying the next day. It was too windy, too windy to spray for eight days. The rye grew like this. I couldn't see my rows. I don't have guidance equipment. I'm too small. Rye grew like this. I couldn't see the rows, but I could see the green streaks where the rye had taken up the sulfur and the starter that I applied to the soybeans. Where I had sprayed it the first time, I had to go back with Enlist and glyphosate because I had a flush of weeds coming on. The other where I did it really late, I just recently, like within the last couple of weeks, made my one and only application. So I saved an application. Where this is important, other than saving money from one application, if we have fewer individuals from that suppression plus fewer applications, that means that we have fewer individuals that are going to be exposed to this new active ingredient, which reduces our chances of developing resistance. So this is a resistance management tool and it behooves all of us to practice resistance management because we've got nothing new coming down the pipeline as far as new products to deal with it. So we've lost we've lost glyphosate and a lot of weeds and that's really unfortunate and these other chemistries we could lose them too if we don't manage it. Anything we can do it's important. The reason I'm harping on this other than I have the resistant population of giant rag on my farm. Look at this picture here. This is giant rag. This is five days after a full rate enlist dual application. Look at its colleagues. They're all yellow. They're twisted up. Brings a smile to my face seeing them all twisted up like that. Not this giant ragweed here. Look at the the leaf margins. They're all fused. You see this mix with applique or with exposure to certain modes of action. I've never seen it like this. It's also growing and growing. It's got a little crook to it which shows the the 2,4-D exposure. To me this plant is doing something with that active ingredient. It's figuring out how to metabolize it. If it goes on to that's resistance developing in my field right now. I pulled that weed before I even put the camera away. I don't want any part of resistance to this mode action on my farm. All right like I said this work is ongoing. We're gonna get a bunch of results this year. The yield response is gonna be a couple years out but we have ample evidence that I am confident in saying that if you use adaptive management that means manage the cover crops appropriately. Don't let them get too big. Don't let them compete against your crop. Don't let them use soil moisture. We can see first-year responses and with the pre-plant termination if you're using the rye or the cover crop just to manage soil moisture it may seem like a waste if you're terminating it but there's still some kind of yield benefit there and also there is weed suppression. I forgot to talk about 2022 because this is about when I killed the screen. So our 2022 data pretty much mirrors what we saw in 2021 but this is universal across all four farms. We are seeing foxtail suppression even in the the burndown treatment that's lasting long beyond the residual products that we put down. That to me is really intriguing and these guys tend to go back they're all in 30-inch rows so they tend to go back with some kind of grass herbicide both post-emergence but they also put metallochlor on because they're worried about season long control. So that observation is really intriguing and really positive. Next thing is to make these things work use the low-cost cover crop systems wherever possible. So that's the result of that first one do cover crops pay that was the major take-home message. In effect we had the yield response it wasn't enough to break even but it reduced our cover crop costs by 60 percent reducing the rye rate looking at ways to terminate it with your routine program your routine herbicide program so you don't have additional costs. And then planting green we are seeing demonstrated weed suppression so we have to find again that sweet spot that's somewhere between yield reduction but we get the suppression and I'm going to be working on that hard in the future so we can have our cake and eat it too. With that I finished on two minutes over. I am done I'm ready for the grilling any questions or comments in the back. The question if you use the cover crop or something else is it still a cover crop? So the cover crop Pierce will tell you no that is a crop you are harvesting. What is a cover crop? It provides soil cover during vulnerable I mean this gets back to the original definition during vulnerable periods in your rotation. As such your rye is doing that my inner farmer says you're finding a way to market this and make more money. So I talked about my initial work looking at the nutrient implications of rye. Rye is a a luxury consumer of both P and K. The higher your soil test results are the higher the tissue concentration. It's like open bar at a wedding versus cash bar. Rye is definitely at the open bar it'll suck up everything that it can. So that would be a concern. The allelopathy just in corn and beans I wouldn't worry about it. I'd be more worried about that and with the grass seed for the mat that you're producing. Right so and I talked about the concentration of the allelopathy chemicals. So we have identified them. They're benzoic acids. That's the same thing as bentazon. So it's like commercial herbicides that are out there. So traditional wisdom says it's a small seeded species that are more susceptible than larger. That's what we can get away with it with corn and beans but not alfalfa. So think about that grass seed. That's really tiny. So maybe you ought to do a little pilot on the side to see if it works with germination with your your intended crop. Yeah so the question is allelopathy is it with the is it in the above ground portion or below ground? It's in everything. What causes the soil effect? We don't know. My presumption is it's not allelopathy from the above ground biomass if it's standing. If it falls down and that stuff can leach out then yes. But below ground and the roots they're exuding it all the time. Plants are always conducting chemical warfare against one another. So this allelopathy is to keep other things from germinating. So the point is that if things are still germinating and it's leaching out from the above ground you probably get some suppression. But if it's already leached out and gone then no. Sounds like another research trial.