Tractor Near Miss Accident and Life Philosophy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Rd8dyXLHriw
People & Blogs
 Good morning everybody, it's John Davis from Laughlin Highlands Farm. It is a cold morning, it's early. It's just a little bit after 7 o'clock here. I'm in the workshop, you got to see the glorious cold start on the 2017 F-250, which I'm keeping that truck as long as I possibly can. I bought that thing used, it's a great truck. I feel like I write a check every month for it to repair it, but with the price of new trucks the way they are, I am in no hurry to buy a brand new heavy-duty truck. Plus, I like my diesel just the way it is. I've done a lot to that engine, as you astute viewers may be able to hear and observe. That's a great truck, man. I'm not really looking to buy a new one. Anyway, that's warming up because like any good farm day, I have a sequence of events that need to happen before I can get to my ultimate objective, which is to take the tractor-mounted wood chipper, the Woodmax, what is it, MX9900, MX9500, you guys will see it later, get that on the big tractor and start grinding up some of the slash from all the trees I've been cutting down in our silvopasture project. I want to get that done, but before I can do that, while the ground's still frozen because I don't know if it's supposed to warm up today, I need to pull the 22-foot load trail equipment slash hay trailer, coffee pause, out of the barnyard while the ground's obviously still frozen. That's why I need the coffee so I don't repeat myself. So there's a lot of water in the ground because we've had rain. Well, I think we've had everything you can possibly think of. We've had rain, we've had snow, we've had everything in between, and the ground's saturated. So I don't want to make more of a mess in it than it already is. I'm going to go grab it while the ground's frozen, keep it hooked up to the truck because we're going to grab hay in the next day or two, and we'll be good to go. Before that, though, I want to swap the chain out on my steel 462. I've babied this chain along. I've cleaned it up multiple times, filed it. It's time for it to change. I like to use my bigger saw for bucking and limbing trees when they're on the ground. The longer bar is a little bit nicer, and this thing just rips through this stuff. So I'll take these branches off, get this thing going, or on the trees, I'll take the branches off, get going, and feed the chipper for a big chunk of the day, which would be pretty cool. I still am planning on renting a big chipper. We'll see. I want to see how much I can do one man with one chipper today just to kind of gauge my time if we have multiple guys helping out in a bigger chipper. We'll see how it goes. Plus, today's a great day to be chipping wood. It's just, you know, I don't know. It's cold. That's like a day to be outside in the woods. I have a cool hack for chainsaw chain. These night eyes, giant night eyes carabiners, if you guys can see that. See that guy? These are perfect for hanging chain on, and then your chain doesn't get all jacked up and messed up. I love these things. I came up with that idea when we were headed to North Carolina, and it's a great way to transport a bunch of chains and get them going. Now, there's plenty of videos online about how to swap saws on chains. One of the things that we have to be realistic about is, you know, God bless all the people out there who have time to sharpen chains and all that stuff. I hold nothing against them. I, too, have a Granberg chain sharpener, but I can also pay the guy in town a few bucks to just sharpen my chains for me, and he makes these things razor sharp. Why don't I sharpen my own chain? I am very limited in time. I own a business that has, you know, employees, and we do things. It's not related to agriculture. I've got a family. I've got the farm. My productive use of time is not spent sharpening chains. That is not the best use of my time. The best use of my time is doing what I'm, I guess you'd call it my value-added time. So that would be running equipment. That would be cutting trees down. That would be doing my business job, which, you know, is my main source of income. And my family, of course, hanging out with them and spending time with them. They are by far the most important aspect of my life, because if you don't have family, you ain't got nothing. We attended last night calling hours for the pastor of our church. I should say the retired pastor of our church. And his wife just passed. She had struggled with Alzheimer's and, you know, finally went home to the Lord. And the, you know, one of the best things about, I can't think and talk at the same time. One of the best things about a celebration of life like that, which it truly was because she, you know, she won the race. She got to the end. They have a beautiful family. They have great grandkids and grandkids and kids and everybody turned out great. Just a lot of honor and awesomeness in that family. She made it to the end and she had a tremendous faith. So we know that she has received her rewarding glory and we'll see, see the rest of her family in the dawn of a new age. But we're just looking through all the wedding photos and everything else. They got married at 18 years old and they were married for, it was 1954 when they got married. And they spent all their life together and were married for, sorry, get all the junk out of there. They were married for something like 69 years. I may have that wrong, 69 or 70 years. There's people who don't live that long, right? And they're just wonderful, wonderful people. The, I mean, you can really see the result of who they are and how their kids turned out and by the turnout from the community at the calling hours and how people treat them and just the net gain that those people have, that the entire family really has put into the community is just, just incredible. So, you know, that, that type of thing on one hand, it's sad because we lost a, a wonderful member of the community. Um, you know, somebody's wife, somebody's mother, a wonderful sister in Christ. On the other hand, um, you know, she went home, she got a reward, her suffering's done and what a legacy that they left behind. My wife and I were talking last night. That's the way to do it. Um, you know, if, uh, you know, God willing, if we can all avoid sickness, that would be great. But sometimes, um, you know, sometimes that's not always in the cards, but, uh, you know, the important part is what do you, what do you leave behind and what's your legacy? And we're only 40 years old, but, you know, legacies start for those two. They got married at 18. Legacies start when you're 18. Legacies start the day that you become responsible for your own decisions. And, um, you know, for all the talk that there's a lot of people out there that they get really spooled up about, I want to make the world a better place by, I don't know, helping, helping people in far flung lands. Not that there's anything wrong with that, but for one, you know, sentiment is not actually helping action doing things is actually helping. And the biggest impact you can make on your community is by making yourself a good person and by making your family the best possible version of you that they can be. That's what will really have an effect on a community and have actual tangible benefit, uh, for generations to come. So just something to think about, uh, 69 years of marriage, my goodness. Um, what a blessing, right? Uh, I don't want to say their name on camera cause I don't know if they want to be public, but they're a good family in the area in which we live and, um, you know, they'll be missed. So just, uh, just good, good stuff. And this is not my normal scrunch. This is a scrunch. It's a chainsaw tool. The, uh, pointy end on it is not appropriate for this chainsaw, but, uh, we're almost done. We're getting there. I just, uh, like to reflect upon the things that really, really matter and the people who do the things that really matter. It's pretty cool. All right. Now it's a fine art, not getting your chain too tight, but you do want to hold your bar up while you're tightening it because that puts the right amount of tension on the chain. Now those of you Sawyers out there, do you tighten the front bolt on your chain cover first or the back bolt? I remember my neighbor, uh, telling me he learned something in a chainsaw class. I can't exactly remember what it is. There is an order to tightening those bolts. I always tight the front one for tighten the front one first while I'm holding up the, uh, chain. I just think that works out. Uh, but I could be doing it wrong. Also, I have learned not to grab these chains that I get sharpened in town and try to move them with my hand after I put the bar on because I sliced my finger open like you wouldn't believe. So we'll just use Mr. Scrunch, make sure we're moving fine, which we are. Chain tension looks good. I call this job done. Let's go get this trailer hooked up. Order of operations number two while we, uh, order of operations number two while we came down to get the trailer hooked up. Let's warm up this guy. It's going to get a workout today. So we keep Mr. Tractor, the 5085E. Ah, it is not plugged in today. Well, that is all right. Normally we plug it into this pole here we use for electric fence, but it's not too cold today. Tractor should heat up just fine. Ah, I'm in the tractor. Now this tractor has been tuned up to 110 horsepower. It's a 85 horsepower tractor stock, but it's been tuned up. So let's see how she goes. Oh, glow plugs. Come on, darling. Yeah, I know you're angry or something. All right. Ha ha ha. No drama. I always forget to mention, when I'm warming up equipment, I turn on the flashers. Uh, it's noisy when you're up close, but when you get far away, uh, then you get working on other stuff and all that. It's not always obvious you have a piece of equipment running. So I turn the flashers on so I can see from a distance when this equipment's running and warming up. See, this is the system that I'm talking about. It's not a, uh, skid steer attached. It's a John Deere global attached. So you've got this pin that comes to this release handle here and then it gets locked down right there where that, that shot pin kind of goes through there. I'm not a big fan of it, but it's what came with the tractor. So you just run what you're growing. I do have an adapter for skid steer, but the problem is you get all the skid steer or you get all the John Deere global attachments and it's like being stuck in a battery system for hand tools. You know what I mean? All right, first thing first, I got to drop off the bell spear and the way you do that, I don't know how good this camera angle is, but at least you can watch the tractor. I also can't really see from inside the cab, so I, I don't know. I don't know what to tell you. You're going to have to live with this amateur, uh, amateur YouTube experience, but it's off. Whenever I hook up attachments to a tractor, I feel like I'm docking an Apollo 13 where they, they get close and they say, capture. I, I know I'm a nerd, but there, there's hooks on the front of this bucket and I got to catch them with this bar that's out, out front. So yeah, idle down the tractor, put it in first gear and I kind of aim off of the left arm of the loader. And if I did it right, when I lift up, I'll completely miss it. Gosh darn it. Well, see, this is why I think global is a hard attachment. I could just be dumb. I mean, that's, that's, you know, that's a thing. All right. That sounds good. All right. Looks like it's lined up. Now what you're going to see me do is throttle up. Um, I'm going to put this up and I can see from my vantage angle, that shot pin. There it is. So the shot pin went on the other side of the bucket. I can see it. And then we pour out whatever junk we have in the bucket. Try to make it as clean as possible. I'm going to be putting all my chainsaw stuff in there. Heaven forbid I get my chainsaw stuff all dirty. All right. Good to go. It's an MX 9900. That's what it is. So it's a Woodmax MX 9900 PTO mounted wood chipper. It is, as far as I know, at least when I bought it, which was 2001, this was the largest wood chipper that they made. And this is by far one of the best purchases we ever made on the farm. You know, with this job where I think last time you saw this, it was a little bit different. We dropped a lot of trees. Um, this is why I want to get a bigger wood chipper just for throughput and production and time efficiency, but, um, we'll see how it works on this job. Uh, but for larger jobs, this thing, or I'm sorry, for small to medium jobs, this thing is indispensable. Lugging, um, lugging brush and burning it sucks. I've been doing that my entire life. And what we're going to do in this situation is cut the brush limit up, get the mini X, bring the mini X, uh, or use the mini X to bring the brush over. And then we'll feed the brush into the wood chipper, which is pretty darn efficient. If you ask me that that's a good way to make a one man, uh, one man job, which is me into, uh, or make a five man. This is probably a five man job. And there's one man doing it. So make it where one man can do the work of five. Well, we'll see if that's the case we're going to, and this is also trialing it for when I get the book, big wood chipper, with the boys. Um, I can see if this whole technique is going to work and, uh, um, you know, be efficient, but I do like this thing. I'll get some video of it running this thing. It it's awesome. I mean, I've never changed the blades in it, although I probably should change the blades after we get done with this project. Uh, you know, maintenance is very, um, very straightforward on it. It's just been a very reliable, uh, very excellent implement. So yeah, I love this thing. This has definitely made, uh, woodlot maintenance, let's call it our fence line maintenance a lot better. It's good stuff. I meant to have a camera set up to point at the wood chipper itself. And I, I did have a camera pointed at the wood chipper. However, the battery died in the GoPro and I thought it had just turned off and like, you know, this is just again, more, more amateur YouTube stuff. So I apologize, but I do like the MX 9900. It is a tremendous wood chipper. We bought it back in 21. And at the time I thought the pre the price was extremely reasonable for what it does, which I forget sometimes how helpful the equipment that we own is prior to having a wood chipper. I would have had to haul all of this and burn it. And man, oh man, if you've, I've spent my entire life dragging branches around. If you've ever dragged branches before, it's tiring and no joke. This was four trees. I got done today. We've got probably 70 on the ground, something crazy like that. So to have equipment is pretty awesome. And I'm excited to have my friends here too, because that is going to make this all go better. I did organize some logs out. None of these are really saw logs for lumber. I have a buddy with a saw mill. So the ones that are, I've got some nice big black walnut logs I'm going to use. Those are the ones that I'm putting kind of in the far corner there. We'll see what happens. A lot of it is honestly just firewood, which I have a ton of firewood. So I need to figure out what I'm going to do with all this because we are, we are rich with firewood. I've got more than I know what to do with. There you can see the wood chipper going. It's pretty awesome. Just having the excavator to pick up all the brush and bring it over is pretty sweet. When we get a team of three guys doing this, I think we're going to be able to rip through stuff pretty quickly, which is awesome. Pretty good day. Got through four of these before the freezing rain started. Freezing rain with lightning. That's pretty exciting. That was not on my 2025 bingo card. I do have an interesting story to tell you. Let me show you. Consider this a public service announcement to always wear your seatbelt. I know that sounds silly and I don't want to be a safety Sally, but oh my gosh, I'll tell you, this is one of those things where I definitely said a prayer of Thanksgiving afterward and I will be thinking about this for the next several weeks, if not months. And I'll, well, maybe years. I'll probably be telling my kids of this story as an example of what not to do. But this hill is steep. It's hard to tell from looking at it, but where those tracks are that I'm pointing to is definitely steep. And, you know, we used to sled on that when I was a kid and my parents used to sled on it when they were kids because it's steep. How many times do I have to say that? It's very steep. Let me also say that the ground is frozen solid. So there's not much traction, especially in this area, because I've been compressing it and tracking up and down it with the excavator, getting brush and logs and all that stuff out of there. So I came around this corner in the tractor and I was in high gear because I was coming off the road and went to shift down into low gear, which I thought I did successfully. And apparently the John Deere computer didn't like the shift that I made or whatever, because it never actually put the tractor into gear, which I found out a little bit too late. I got about, oh, I don't know, 100 feet down the hill and I realized the tractor's not in gear. And I'm like, oh shoot, you know, the tractor's not in gear. So before I can do anything, the tractor takes off because, you know, when you have a 12,000 pound tractor fully loaded going down a hill, gravity is going to not be your best friend. So the tractor starts taking off and you can see the tractor or the tire marks going down the hill as it's going down. At the bottom where the tires curve, there's trees there. And I'm fighting two things as this is happening. One is the tractor's pointed straight downhill, bouncing all over the place. So I'm bouncing in the seat and it is picking up speed at an alarming rate. I am trying not to hit the trees because it occurred to me, I'm not wearing a seatbelt. If I ram a tree at 25 miles an hour, I'm going to go right through the front windshield of the tractor and have a serious automotive accident, essentially, without a seatbelt on. Dummy. The other thing that's occurring to me is that the tractor, I am on the brakes. Tractors don't have front brakes. They only have rear wheel brakes. I am on the brakes and the front end or the back end rather starts to come around because I'm skidding. There's no traction. And when I went back and looked at the tire marks, I must have been locked up with the rear wheels and I'm just skidding down the hill and the tractor's starting to go sideways. Now, if the tractor got sideways, it's going to roll over. It's going to hit a bump. It's going to stop. It's going to do something. Tractors aren't meant to go sideways at a high rate of speed. And that is point number two. I would be thrown out of the tractor at a high rate of speed because I'm not wearing my seatbelt. So I did get it safely to the bottom of the hill. Thanks be to God. That said, accidents always happen when you're not paying attention. You know, when I'm actually doing dangerous things with chainsaws or equipment or whatever where I know it's dangerous, I take my time. I'd be safe. I really, really, really do not want to get into an accident. But here I am, you know, going down a hill in what I thought would be a creeper gear, not wearing a seatbelt. And that's when a pretty significant accident could have happened. So I've got a seatbelt in this tractor. I'm an idiot. I should wear a seatbelt. It just got out of the habit of doing it. But anyways, it's a PSA. I told my family afterwards and just as a reminder of, hey, farm equipment's dangerous and working heavy equipment is dangerous. And all this stuff you just really, really, really have to be careful about. All that said, I'm pretty happy with how things went today. I know it seems like it's the same thing over and over, but this is a big project. So everywhere you see kind of brown ground, where you see the green grass around the tire tracks from the ill-fated tractor incident, that is where there was grass because there was no brush. Everything else was covered in brush and obscured by tree canopy. So there's a lot of downed trees. You can see we've definitely made some progress here, which is great. So we'll continue to do the thing, continue to clean it up. And Lord willing, I'll have this little section pretty well cleared up by springtime. You all have a great day. Don't forget to like and subscribe. And God bless you all. Please pray for us and our continued safety. Obviously, I need it. And have a great week. John Davis, Lachlan Highlands Farm, out. Thank you.