Paving the Way for Sustainable Agricultural Innovations in Africa
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rDLCpscgcJQ
People & Blogs
 Welcome to the inspiring theme of sustainable intensification in Africa, brought to you by the Horizon 2020 program. Under this program, two subtopics are driving remarkable advancements. In this subtopic, African farming systems sustainable intensification pathways take center stage. Here, four projects are implementing and testing systems approaches that enhance primary production while supporting local communities in the long run. The second subtopic, Soil Systems for Africa, a vital component of the EU-Africa Research and Innovation Partnership on Food and Nutrition Security and Sustainable Agriculture, brings additional project which is creating a comprehensive and open database on agricultural soils. These projects are demonstrating the benefits of agroecological innovations on the ground. Based on this evidence, we recommend mainstreaming agroecological practices such as agroforestry to transform agri-food systems, prioritize the environment, and ensure sustainable and healthier food production and sovereignty. We also suggest promoting the use of sustainability of a harmonized soil information system. To achieve these goals, the following actions are required. The second axis of our recommendation revolves around addressing barriers and constraints to mainstreaming sustainable innovations. The primary barrier identified is knowledge. The suggested actions include… To overcome the multiplicity of uncoordinated initiatives, the suggested actions are… Finally, the third axis emphasizes the importance of training on the disseminating agroecological knowledge we recommend too. The ongoing projects are working towards centralizing knowledge, increasing access to physical and digital knowledge hubs, and creating digital platforms for disseminating agroecological knowledge. These initiatives and tools, if leveraged by matching policies, provide a foundation to overcome the knowledge bottleneck in agroecology, and boost agricultural production, agri-food systems, resilience, and environmental sustainability now and in the coming decades. Connections Connections Connections Connections Connections Connections Connections Connections