Crop Rotation for Plasticulture Strawberries
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RdsN_so3Jxg
Science & Technology
 Music Welcome to the Sustainable Strawberry production series. In this video, we will cover the basics of crop rotation and how to implement a crop rotation plan for your strawberry operation. Crop rotation involves planting crops in the same area that are not closely related to each other or that are from different plant families across a sequence of growing seasons. Crop rotation can break pest and disease cycles, relieve hard pans, and make use of nutrients stored in different parts of the soil profile. It can also help rebuild nutrients and organic matter in the soil after intensive crop production. For strawberries grown in an annual plastic culture system, crop rotation should take place annually if sufficient land is available. Here's an example of a strawberry grower annually rotating his strawberry fields with plantings of pumpkins and a summer cover crop mix of cow pea and pearl millet. In year one, you can see strawberries planted on the right in field A, with field B on the left where summer cover crops will be planted followed by strawberries. In year two, you can see on the right that field A now has squash planted, and on the left field B has pumpkins where this year strawberries were planted. And in field C, on your left, you'll see a planting of summer cover crops where strawberries will be planted later in the fall. Growers should avoid planting strawberries on the same ground year after year, particularly if they are not fumigating or if they are organic or low input to keep pest and disease populations from building up over time. The greatest benefit from crop rotation is seen in rotation plans in which the cash crop, in this case strawberries, are planted on the same piece of land only once every three to five years. There are some considerations to keep in mind when deciding which crops to include in your rotation plan and where to plant them. First, you should make sure the crops you plan to include in your rotation aren't in the same family as strawberries or don't share the same pests and diseases. Also, you should make sure the crops you add to your rotation fit with your market, and the cropping seasons align to easily flow from termination of one crop to the establishment of the next. Some examples of crops to rotate with strawberries are brassicas, such as broccoli. Research has shown that when broccoli crop residues are incorporated into the soil, the residue acts as a biofumigant similar to cover crops. The only issue is that in the southeast, strawberry and broccoli are cool-seasoned crops. While broccoli can't be planted in the summer directly after strawberries, it could be planted the following year in the spring or fall after strawberries. Warm-season crops such as sweet corn and pumpkins can be planted directly after strawberries and even make use of the same plastic mulch and drip irrigation. In this grower example, you can see newly planted strawberries on the right and pumpkins on the left that were planted into last year's strawberry beds. If growers are unable to rotate where they plant their strawberry fields each year, other management practices can help to provide relief to intensively managed soils. Summer cover crops planted during the off-season are a good way to maximize a short strawberry crop rotation cycle. The benefits of incorporating cover crops into your rotation plan are they don't share the same pests as strawberries, they root to different depths, they have different nutrient use requirements, with some cover crops even adding nitrogen back into the soil, and they can suppress weeds. For more information on summer cover crops for strawberry production, be sure to check out our video on this topic that will also be covered in this series. Now, let's take a look at an example of building a three-year crop rotation plan for plastic culture strawberries. In this example, Farmer Jill has three fields that she can use for her crop rotation plan. She has strawberries, pumpkins, broccoli, and sweet corn as her four main cash crops. Let's start with field one. In year one, to prepare for fall strawberry planting, Jill can plant a summer cover crop mix of cowpea and pearl millet in the spring and terminate in the summer before fall planting. As we move into year two, with strawberry harvest winding down in the spring, Jill can then plant pumpkins in order to utilize the plastic mulch and irrigation used for the strawberries. To help improve soil health in between cash crops, Jill can plant a winter cover crop mix of clover and oat following pumpkin harvest in the fall. In year three, after the termination of the winter cover crops in the spring, Jill can plant early sweet corn for a short cash crop. Following sweet corn, Jill can then plant her fall broccoli and begin the cycle again with planting summer cover crops in the spring of the next year. As you can see, the rotation plan will be the same for all three fields, with the order slightly offset in order for Jill to have all four cash crops producing in one year. Selecting production practices like crop rotation can help maximize the and maintain soil health, which can ensure long-term crop productivity. Crop rotation is also necessary if you're not fumigating your soil and can help combat soil borne diseases by acting as a substitute for annual fumigation. Preliminary research in Arkansas has shown that there is a benefit to strawberry yields from crop rotation in unfumigated systems. To learn more about research and resources related to sustainable strawberry production in Arkansas, visit our webpage at uaex.uada.edu forward slash sustainable dash strawberry. Special thank you to the Southern Sustainable Agriculture Research and Education Program for their support of this project. Thanks so much for watching! Thank you for watching!