Solids Lifting Overflows (SLOs) for filtration in Aquaponics
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rjQoiMnb7AY
Film & Animation
 Yo guys it's Tyler checking in. Today I want to talk to you about one of the easiest ways to move water from your fish tank to your primary filtration in an aquaponics system. Solids lifting overflows or SLOs. There's many ways to move water from your fish tank forward in an aquaponics system but none are more forgiving than a solids lifting overflow. There's two types of SLOs vertical draining and horizontal draining. No matter which type you use understand that the main advantage of a solids lifting overflow is that they control the water height in your fish tank with the use of a standpipe. Let's take a look at each type of SLO. Here's how horizontal SLOs are set up. They're composed of a standpipe, an outlet pipe, and usually a fitting on the bottom of the standpipe to promote a little bit of suction. All SLOs are designed to pull solids directly from the bottom of a fish tank and horizontal SLOs can be moved to any location. As water from your return pump flows into your fish tank, water is forced to exit the only way it can, up through the bottom of your SLO and out the side of your fish tank, bringing solid particles with it. This water would then flow into your primary solids filter. One key part of the horizontal SLO is that the top of the standpipe needs to be open in order to prevent siphoning during the event of a power failure. Here's how vertical SLOs are set up. They're composed of a standpipe, an external pipe, and an outlet. For this type of SLO, your fish tank will need to be elevated off the ground slightly, or your plumbing will have to be underground. As water is fed into your fish tank, the only way for it to exit is down through your vertical standpipe. The use of the external standpipe then forces water to come up from the bottom of your fish tank. This SLO cannot be moved once in place, but I believe it creates more suction than a horizontal SLO. So there you have it guys. Two really easy and reliable ways to move water from your fish tank forward. Give it a shot in your own aquaponics system.