Unknown Title
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rkvYtUcREls
Unknown Category
 Hi folks, Ron, agronomist with Pioneer in Central Texas. You can see I'm in a field of corn that's taken some pretty severe heat scald due to drought conditions. You can look at these plants and see that the top material is completely scalded, very little green left. Plants are starting to shut down. The question I would have about this is what kind of yield can I expect out of these particular plants and will there even be any? Here's an air on down the row. Let's go on down here and see what it looks as we get across. Notice as you go through here, a lot of these leaves are scorched, very little photosynthesis happening. These are still alive but severely rolled up. And of course the hosts are starting to turn white. So as we look right here, it starts to improve as we get on down there. So we've got an ear that I pulled back there. Let's investigate this a little bit and see what it looks like. Well, number one, you can tell right off the bat, a little bit of incomplete pollination, probably due to drought. And that piece of soil is very, very shallow back there, a lot of rock. This is an ear I pulled on down the way. It's a little better shape, but one of the things you'll notice is some missing kernels. My expectation here is probably that was a late roundup application. We had such severe dry weather early in the season, we didn't have weeds to spray at the correct time. You know, V8 or 30 inches, whichever comes first. When you have a drought, a lot of times you shorten the internodes and you'll have plants at a farther growth stage than you ever imagined. So you can see looking here, these ears are not going to yield that well. But if you look down here at this board where we've gathered two hybrids, two different ones, new 1122 and new 0995. The differing populations, they look pretty decent. Well, that's a different part of the field, a little bit better soil. And notice our populations, 25, 22, 18. So 25 on this piece of land is probably a little bit rich. 22 is probably about right and 18 is on the low side. So a question I would get is, okay, Ron, what's going to happen to these ears if these plants die? Well, we're at the dent stage for the most part or early dent. You're not going to abort kernels on the tip any longer because you're at that advanced growth stage. What you will see, though, is you will see these kernels shrivel. They will be very small like that, be very hard to get in the combine, and they will have very limited test weight. So can you still lose yield? Absolutely. Kernel depth and test weight are going to be the two culprits in this situation. Again, little better soils, a lot better results. A lot of fields will be that way this year. I hope this helps. Y'all have a great harvest season. That concludes this Pioneer Agronomy video podcast. Visit our page on pioneer.com and follow us on Twitter and Facebook for more agronomy insights. Thank you. lear. Love you guys, are you? There're a great harvest season. We're on the next one. While I'm here. We're stuck in orange and test weight. We'll be聖ely. Maybe. We'll be sitting next time. a couple of stehen. I'll be if it does. Let's go home stats and test weight. We'll be able to roast הם bites. Last time, last time, I'll stay inside. We will just myelinesneed age oficism. We'll be pedesticed. We'll be Steveường -... zonaaaaaair. So God c'dawardMan.