Sketchy Glovebox Knife Search - Raul Valle Trial - Keenan Fraczek
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rnLwuYdluhc
News & Politics
 We're on a state we call Keenan Freysik to the stand. Keenan Freysik, 16 Woodcrest Avenue, K-N-A-S-F-R-A-C-Z. How old are you? I'm 20 years old. And do you go to school? I do. Where do you go to school? Central Connecticut State University. And what are you studying? Nursing. And are you working for the summer? I am. What are you doing? I'm working part-time at Bass Pro Shops and doing lawn work. You know why you're here today? I do. Why are you here today? To say my part and what happened leading up to and after the event. Are you nervous to be here today? Sure am. I want to direct your attention to May 14th of 2022. How old were you back then? 16. Where did you go to school? St. Joseph High School. I was in my sophomore year. So you're a rising junior? Yes. Now, Keenan, I want to direct your attention to May 14th of 2022, specifically Madigan Lifer's House. Can you tell us what was going on at Madigan Lifer's House that night and what time you got there? There was a party going on, a couple of grades mixed within the St. Joseph school community. We were all hanging out, having a good time, obviously drinking some alcohol. And I believe I got there around, I'd say nine o'clock. And were you drinking? I was. How much were you drinking? Three beers. And when you say beers, what kind of beer? Bush Light. Bush Light. At some point in time, when you were at Madigan Lifer's House, did individuals show up that you were not familiar with? Are you aware that individuals showed up that you're not familiar with? I am aware. But you didn't see them? Did not see it. Around what time would you see? How long were you at Madigan Lifer's House between the time you got there and the time that you became aware that these individuals showed up? I can't put an exact time on it, but it was around one to two hours. What were you doing at the party at the Lifer House? I'm socializing with my friends, maybe playing some drinking games like beer pong, something of those sorts. Do you know whether or not when you were there, whether or not Jack Snyder was at that party? Jack Snyder was present. And was Tyler DeSilva there? He was. And was the defendant there? He was. Were you inside the house or outside the house when you were at this party? Inside for most of the time. At some point in time, did you exit the house for some reason? I did. And why did you exit the house? My buddy named Ryan, he said he wasn't feeling well, felt uneasy, said he had to vomit. So I took him outside, went around the house into the back, and was tender, was with him while he was vomiting. And when you were doing that, how long would you say you were out back with him for? I'd say 20 minutes. And after 20 minutes, did you return to the garage or driveway area of the home? I did. And when you did that, what, if anything, was occurring at that moment? Nothing was occurring at that moment as we were driving, or I'd say walking around the house. We heard some shouting from a car from driving past the road, and we're trying to figure out what was going on. And did you, in fact, figure out what was going on? We were informed. Okay. And were you informed about a fight that had taken place? We were informed. You did not witness that fight? Did not. How long after did you hear about the fight, did the party break up? Oh, within 20 minutes. How did the party break up? Did the parents inform you the party was over? How did that happen? I don't believe it was the parents. Older sister was telling everybody to disperse and get out of the house. The party was over. And so when the party was over, what, if anything, were you concerned about at that point in time? Trying to get home. And did you have a ride home at that point? I did not. And were you hanging out with anybody at that moment who also needed a ride home? Yes. And who was that? Demetrio Sarfanis and Will Sengwald. And at some point in time, were you able to find a ride home? Yes. Now, prior to that, do you recall seeing the defendant, Jack Snyder, at the house? Yes. Yes. Let me show you State's Exhibit 53. Can you identify the people in State's 53, this person in the red? Jack Snyder. And how about this person here with the helmet on? Raul Valley. The defendant? Yes. At some point in time, you were able to find a ride from Lazy Brook? I was. And who offered you a ride? Jack Snyder. And anybody else, was anybody else offered a ride at that point in time? Yes, Demetrio Sarfanis was. He was planning from the beginning of the night to sleep over at my house after the party. And Will Sengwald. And at some point in time, did you get into Jack's car? Yes. I'll show you State's 30. You recognized State's 30. That was the vehicle. That's Jack's car? Yes. And when you got into that vehicle, who else got into the vehicle with you? Jack Snyder was driving his car. Tyler DeSilva. Lido Valley, Araul Valley, Demetrios, myself, Will Sengwald, and Mackenzie Travicante. Now, how do you know all those people? We all went to school together at St. Joe's. You were all St. Joe's students? Yes. Now, when you left Lazy Brook in Jack's car, did you know where you were headed? We were going to Trumbull High. Why were you going there? To figure out where we were going to go after, whether it was a different party, hang out at somebody else's house. It was kind of just like a middle ground almost to figure out where we were going to go next. And did you, in fact, at some point get to Trumbull High School? We did. And when you got there, did you guys discuss what to do next? Not really. When we got to Trumbull High, we met up with some other females that were at the party. And the whole group of people were split up. Lido, Jack, and Tyler were talking amongst themselves. And I was talking to a different group of individuals. And so I had my own separate conversation. So were you close enough where you could hear what the defendant was talking about with Jack and Tyler? No. So how long would you say you were at Trumbull High School for? I'd give it 20 minutes. And when you were at Trumbull High School, did you have anything to drink between the time you left Lazy Brook and the time you got to Trumbull High School? No. Did you have anything to drink when you were at Trumbull High School? No. Now, after about 20 minutes, did you all get back into Jack's car? We did. And why did you do that? Because everything was wrapped up and thought we were going home. You thought you were going home? Yes. And did you leave Trumbull High School? We did. And when you left Trumbull High School, where were you headed? Did you think you were going home? I thought we were heading home to my house with Demetrius. At what point in time did you realize you weren't heading home? So when we got out of Trumbull High, we took a right. And we were supposed to take a right, the next right, back into Trumbull. But we took a left into Shelton. And that's how I knew we were not going to my house. And what town do you live in? Trumbull. So when you took the left to go into Shelton, was there any talk about where you were going, drop me home, anything like that? I assumed that we were dropping Mackenzie off because I knew she was from Shelton. But didn't know what part, didn't know where she lived. At some point in time, did you pull up on a house in Shelton? We did. And do you recall what house that was? The estate of Tyler Rich. Show you states nine. Is that the house that you guys pulled up to? Yes. Show you states 49. Again, aerial views at the Tyler Rich house that you pulled up to? Yes. Can you tell us in states 49 where exactly you guys pulled up, if you can recall? I can't exactly recall the road we came in on. I knew we were facing or we were facing the direction of a cul-de-sac and we were right in front of the driveway and drove by, turned around at the cul-de-sac and then went back towards the driveway. At some point in time, prior to arriving at Tyler Rich's house, were you aware of a group chat that was going on between some of your friends and some of the Shelton high school kids? After the fact, I know about it now. I was not a part of that group chat and there was no talk about that group chat. So no, I was not informed. At some point in time when you pulled up to Tyler Rich's house, did you witness anybody exit that house? When we initially drove by? Sure. There were people outside. And at some point in time, when you stopped in front of the house, did people approach the car? After we turned around in the cul-de-sac and we got surrounded by people. And how many people would you say were outside at any given time? At least 20. At least 20. And when they surrounded the car, can you tell us a little bit about how that interaction initially took place? So initially we got surrounded. No, I believe they were on one side of the car. What side of the car were they on? The driver's side. And everything was cordial at first. And then someone from the back shouted something. And then Jack Snyder replied back. And then things started getting out of hand and the car got surrounded. And when you say that things got out of hand, what kind of things were happening? The tensions were escalating. And when you say tensions, were people arguing? They were. Was anything thrown at the car or did anybody touch the car? Yes. Things were thrown. And the people were on the back of the car bouncing on the rear bumpers. People were outside the passenger window, the backseat windows banging on the windows. And when that happened, what if anything happened next with regards to the car? With regards to the car, things were just getting way too out of hand. I was pretty scared at the moment. And then I don't remember who shouted, but someone said go. Jack Snyder hit the gas pedal and we went. And when you went, where did you go? We went down the road, about two, three houses, but they're pretty spread out. And in States 49, can you see where you went down the road? Yes, towards the top of the image. So somewhere in this area here? Yes. I'm pointing on the left side of the, on the right side of the picture towards the top of Laurel Glen. We're just before the intersection of Farmhouse Road to Laurel Glen. The car will allow the record to reflect that. Thank you. The car went up that way. What, if anything, happened when you were up there? The individuals inside of the car got out, including myself. And some Shelton kids ran up and they were talking with Lito, Jack, and Tyler DaSilva. And who, if you can recall, who exactly got out of the car at that moment? I don't remember. Did you get out of the car at some point? I did get out of the car at some point. Why did you get out of the car? Really, because nothing good was happening there. Kind of walked into a trap and wanted to escape. And you said people from down the street ran down? Yes. And did they speak to any of you guys down the road? They did not speak to myself, Demetrios, Kenzie, or Will. We were sitting on the curb away from the car and they were talking to Tyler, Jack, and Lito. And when they were talking to Tyler and Jack, what was the tone of the conversation? Not what they said, but what was the tone of the back and forth? At first, everything was cordial. And then it escalated a little bit, a little bit. Was there any arguing going on? Not really too much shouting. I would say it was pretty cordial at first. At some point, well, let me ask you this. Did you witness the Shelton kids interacting with the defendant and Tyler and Jack? Yes. And did you witness any physical altercation down the road when the kids came down the road? Was there any fighting, physical fighting? No. How long would you say the interaction was between your group of friends and the Shelton kids? I give it five minutes. Now, I want to show you the mark of the States, Exhibit 44. Let me just wait a second. I was wondering if I before you were CR to each other's office. All right. All right. Let me just wait a second. I'm looking for a photographs that do my skills. Thank you very much. Have you seen that before? I have. You've seen that in my office? Yes. Now, do you know whether or not that part of the video happens before you get out of the car or after you get out of the car? I believe it happened before. So you're kind of still in the car. A couple people get out or three people get out, walk down the road. You're in the car. And at some point, does Jack turn the car around and come back? How does that happen? Let us know how I got to the curb area. What's that? How I got to the curb area. Yeah. So based on that, if that happens before you get out of the car, help us understand when you get out of the car in relation to that exhibit. That video was pretty much a blur. That's one part of the night. It was new to me once you showed me that video. Didn't exactly remember or recall exactly how all those events went down. I can't say if I got out of the car before that happened or after that happened. But I know before the individuals went back, I was already out of the car with a couple of my friends who I arrived with sitting on the curb. So when you say the individuals went back, are you referring to the kids from the Shelton group? No, I'm referring to Jack, Leto, and Tyler. Okay. So let me ask you this. At some point, this is a small picture or a small video of what happened down the road, right? You get out of the car with Will, McKenzie, and Dimitri. Yes. And you sit on the curb? Yes. When you do that, is there an interaction between Tyler, Jack, and the defendant? Yes. Can you please explain what that interaction is like? So the interaction was, first of all, it was agitated. The scene was tense. Leto was searching for a weapon in the car. He said, Jack, where is your knife? Where the F is your knife? And he was looking around in the glove box and the center console and did not find anything. I'm sorry? I did not see a knife. How was the defendant reacting prior to looking for the knife? He was on edge. Why was he on edge? Because he was upset that he was upset from what happened to Jack's car. And what kind of things was he saying to make you feel like he was upset? How was he acting? He was going pretty, pretty insane. I'd say he was using vulgar language, cussing. Jack, look what the F they did to your car. And after he said, look what the F they did to your car, that's when he asked Jack, where's the knife? Yes. How long would you say that that was going on for down the street? That they were searching? Well, that the defendant was acting in an aggressive manner and cursing and going insane because of what happened to the car and then looking for the knife. No more than 30 seconds. And you indicated that you did not see a knife? I did not. Do you know whether or not the defendant ended up finding a knife? After the fact. Right, but at the moment. I assume he found a knife, but in the moment did not see a knife and believe for the rest of the night that he never found a knife because I never saw one. Now, when you say that the three of them went back down the street, before they go back down the street, was there any talk about going back down the street by the defendant? Yes. What was he saying? I don't remember the exact words they were saying, but there was conversation. I was too far away to hear the exact words. And they got back in and drove down. Now, not telling us what either Jack or Tyler said, did any of those two individuals try to talk the defendant out of going back down the street? Tyler did. The car leaves to go down the street? Yes. Do you see who gets in Jack's car before going down the street? Yes. Jack was driving and Lito and Tyler DeSillo. How long would you say the car was down the street for before it returned? No more than five minutes. And when it was down the street, what did you what, if anything, did you hear when it was down the street? So I went down the street and the four of us were talking amongst ourselves, trying to really figure out what was going on and how we ended up in the situation. And they drove down. You can kind of hear the tire screech a little bit. And so, you know, the car is stopping and you can't see it, but you can hear it. One, because we were far away. Two, because it was dark. Three, there might have been something obstructing our view. You hear a lot of yelling, but it wasn't high pitched yelling, which came next. It was more of a rowdy yelling, shouting. And then eventually it turned into a very high pitched scream. After about five minutes of the yelling and then high pitched screaming, did you witness the car return? Yes. And when the car returned, did you, were you able to witness what Tyler DeSilva looked like? Yes. And what did he look like? He was bleeding a lot, bruised everywhere. I asked him a simple question and I didn't really get an answer. So he was just about unconscious. And were you able to witness what the defendant looked like? Yes. And what did, how did the defendant appear to you? Shocked. He had like a shocked look on his face. Didn't look as battered as Tyler DeSilva was nowhere near, but I wasn't inspecting him. Now, at some point in time, when you, Will, Dimitri and Mackenzie were waiting down the road, were you able to make arrangements to get another ride home? Yes. So how did that come about? So once we were sitting on the curb, Carolyn, Carolyn, who was Will's girlfriend at the time, was picking him up. So Will was getting his ride home. And by the time the car returned from, or before I saw Tyler and Lito after what happened, Will was already gone. His girlfriend picked him up. So he was gone. It was just me, Dimitri and Mackenzie. And Mackenzie asked us if we needed a ride and her sister could bring us home. Did you, in fact, get into the car with Mackenzie? We did. Exhibit 44. I want to have you watch real quick. Is that Jack's car taking off? Yes. And these individuals in the road getting into the car here, that's you and... Myself, Mackenzie, and Dimitrios. And that's at about 11.55 at night? Sounds about right. You hear the high-pitched screaming in the background? Did you hear that? I did not hear it. So when Jack's car took off, do you know who left in Jack's car with him? And who got into Mackenzie's sister's car? So it was myself and Dimitrios and Mackenzie. And then I shut the door. And then after, Lito got him. Lito got him, the defendant? Yes. And when he got in, where did he sit in the car? Do you remember? Rear side or back right. And where were you seated in the car? Right next to him. In the middle? In the middle. And on the car ride from... Oh, withdrawn. When you guys left Laurel Glen, who was the first to get dropped off? Myself and Dimitrios. And how long was the ride from Laurel Glen to your house? Say eight minutes. And in that eight minute ride, did the defendant say anything in the eight minute ride over? No. In that eight minute ride, were you able to observe whether or not he had any blood on him? I did not see any. Did it appear that he had been in a fight? You can assume so. But you didn't see, it didn't appear so? No. Thank you for the question, General. Thank you. Okay. Cross exam. Good afternoon, Mr. Frasek. Good afternoon. We've never met before. Nice to meet you. We've never met before. True. Okay. You're nervous today? Of course. First time testifying in court? It is. I'm just going to go over with you some of your testimony, okay? Sounds good. Now, in this case, this isn't the first time that you've spoken about this particular matter, right? No. You mentioned you've met with the state's attorney a few times, correct? Correct. He showed you some videos, correct? Correct. He showed you these two videos that we saw today, correct? Correct. Have you also seen another video of the fight that took place in the front of Laurel Glen Drive? No. You've never seen the fight where Tyler Da Silva is down on the ground? No. Are you aware that such a video exists? I've heard chat about it. And in your case, you spoke, you gave two statements, right? You spoke with Detectives Ianati and Nugent on May 16th. Sounds right. And again, with Detective Bango and McPadden on September 1st, correct? Yes. You were telling us about being at 5 Lazy Brook Road earlier. Do you recall that? Yes. And you were invited to that party by whom? I don't recall whom, but friends. Did you see Austin Leifer there? I did. And what was Austin Leifer doing while you were there? Drinking like everybody else. And you told us that you had gone outside with somebody that was ill and throwing up. Do you remember that? I do. Was that Austin Leifer? No. Did you see Austin Leifer while you were outside? No. And you told us that you were there around one to two hours before these other kids who you said were uninvited arrived, correct? Sounds about right. And you were there for one to two hours as well as Mr. Snyder and Mr. Valley and Mr. Da Silva? We were there roughly the same amount of time. You didn't see anybody try to kick them out of that party? Please rephrase that. So you didn't see anybody try to tell them to leave that party while you were there for that one to two hours, did you? You're talking about the defendant? Yes. And Mr. Da Silva? No. Well, once the party ended, that's when everybody in a hole was asked to leave. Everybody was kicked out at that point? Yes. Yes. But before that? No. You didn't see anybody tell them that they had to leave? No. And you saw a photograph earlier. That's State's Exhibit 53. Do you see that? Can you see that on your screen there? No. It's just this girl. It's Herbie. Technical. Okay. You can see it now? I do. Is that photograph taken at the Leifer's house? I believe so, yes. Appears to be? Yes. Can you identify either of these two folks in the background? Cannot. But to the best of your knowledge, that was taken down there in the basement because you recognized the basement where you were, correct? If it's from the same night, I assume it's the basement. Well, do you recall these outfits being the clothes that they were wearing? Yes. And did you see Mr. Valley that evening wearing some sort of neck pillow around his neck? I don't recall seeing that, no. Do you recall seeing him wearing this motorcycle helmet? No. Okay. Does this banner on the back wall, does that look familiar to you? I didn't pay too much attention to the decor. Anything about that look to you like it's a basement where you were hanging out for one to two hours? It's safe to say it is. Okay. So you were there for one to two hours. This photograph you think was taken there in that basement. That's Mr. Valley and Mr. Schneider, correct? Yes. You don't recall anybody telling them, hey, you're not invited. You got to get out of here. That never happened. And while you were there, you were drinking Bush Light, you told us. Yes. You have three beers. Three. Three. And you said at some point you became aware that three uninvited individuals showed up. Did you actually see them show up? No. You were outside at that point? My buddy was vomiting. And what was your buddy's name again? Ryan. Ryan? Ryan. Was he also a St. Joe student? He was. And you didn't see the fight that occurred in front of Five Lazy Brook? Did not. Okay. But when you got back to the driveway, you said you saw a car go driving by and you heard some shouting coming from that car? There was shouting. What was the shouting? F you and then some vulgar language. Some vulgar language. Okay. Did that appear to be directed at anyone? The people in the driveway. And in the driveway, did that still include Mr. Schneider, Mr. De Silva, Mr. Valley? I can't recall if they were in the driveway still or who was out there. I would assume so. And at that point you told us you were concerned about trying to get home, right? Yes. And you had with you Demetrio, who had been planning to sleep over at your house that night. Yes. And Will Sensual. I don't know if Will was supposed to sleep at my house. I can't recall what our plans with Will were. But if he needed someplace to sleep, it would have been my house. Okay. He was a friend of yours. He was. And the three of you were offered a ride by Jack Schneider. Yes. Had you ever ridden with Jack Schneider before? Not to my knowledge. Was he somebody that you were close with? In school, yes. Tyler De Silva, was he somebody that you were close with? In school, yes. And Raul Valley, was he somebody that you were close with? In school, yes. When you say in school, what does that mean exactly? Like we wouldn't go out of our ways to hang out with each other outside of school. Okay. But on this night, at least you happened to be at the same party? Yes. We'd see each other at numerous parties before. Okay. And so when you got into Jack's car, it was yourself, Jack Schneider, Tyler De Silva, Raul Valley, correct? Yes. So there were seven of you in that pilot. Yep. Anybody else? No. And when you were in the car, what did it sound like in the car? There was no music playing. No music playing? No. So you could hear everybody talking? No. Okay. Where were you seated? In the back. In the back as far as the trunk area or in the back as far as the row of seats? Not in the trunk area. So the row of seats directly behind the passenger and the driver? Yes. And which end of that seat were you on? I don't remember. Were you by a door? I don't remember. I was in the back row of seats. Who were you sitting beside? I don't remember. I just remember Jack was driving and the six other individuals, including myself, were in the car. Do you remember Demetrius being in the trunk area? That I do remember. Okay. Why do you remember that in particular? Because when we were surrounded outside the rich house, I looked back to him and said, we have to get out of here. Was he the only one that was in the trunk area? Well, Singewald could have been, but he was in the car. And you were shown a photograph. I'm showing you states exhibit 30. I'm trying to show you states exhibit 30. There we go. And you identified that as the vehicle that you were riding in. It was a Honda Pilot. And when you got in the vehicle that night, it did not have this shattered windshield, did it? When I initially got in? When you initially got in. It did not. And you told us that you went over to Trumbull High School at that point, right? We did. And you met up with some girls there, you said? Yes. Were those also girls from the party that you had just been at? Yes. Okay. How did you know to meet up with them there at Trumbull High School? Outside the Lifer household, everybody was miling into cars to try to find rides home. And we ended up mutually going to Trumbull High. Okay. Was that a sort of known meetup spot? No. You saw two other folks there that night too, right? Not just the girls. There was a car with two gentlemen in it, right? Yes. Do you remember who they were? Yes. Who was that? I know one of them was in there, Shane. Shane. Coach. Coach. And was one of them Mike Bagley? Sounds about right. Okay. And they were in a white BMW? Yes. And how do you know those two individuals? I grew up with them. Were they also students at St. Joe's? They were students at Trumbull High School. Okay. They were students at Trumbull High. The other two girls, though, they were students at St. Joe's. Which girls are you referring to? The two girls that you met at Trumbull High School. I believe so, yes. And when you got to Trumbull High School, did you tell us that everybody got out of the car? Mostly everybody got out of the car. Can't exactly remember how it all happened, but people were scattered. Okay. And how long did the ride from 5 Lazy Brook to Trumbull High School take? A few minutes. Three or four? Five or six? Five or six. Five or six minutes. No drinking in the car on the way there? No. Was there alcohol in the car? There could have been. I don't recall. You didn't see anybody drinking? No. You didn't drink yourself? No. And you said you stayed there for about 20 minutes, right? Sounds about right, yes. And then you got back into Jack's car and you thought that you were going home to your house, right? Yes. Because Jack had told you that he was going to be your ride home, right? Because my ride, when I got to the Lifer household, left. So I didn't have a ride. Jack said he could bring me home. Okay. And everybody got back into the car at that point, right? The seven individuals that were in the car leaving the Lifer household got back in the car. Okay. And nobody said where you were going at that point. You just told us you assumed that you were going home, right? I assumed I was going home with Demetrius and Will, or maybe Will was getting dropped off after. My house compared to everybody else is the closest to Trumbull High, so I assumed I was going home first. Gotcha. Nobody said, hey, we're going somewhere else, right? Not that I remember. And I think you told us that while you were there, well, who were you talking to while you were outside of the car at Trumbull High? I can't recall everybody I talked to or even who I talked to. It just wasn't. I wasn't talking to Lito, Jack, and Tyler. Okay. So you said they were somewhere among themselves? That sounds right. Did you see them or you just assumed that? It was safe to assume. So you didn't see them? I saw that they weren't with me. So that means they have to be together. But you didn't actually see them together is what I'm asking. I wasn't focusing my attention on them. I understand that. You were talking to other people. Yes. I'm just saying you assumed that they were somewhere together, but you didn't actually see them somewhere together, did you? They were at the car. Oh, you saw them at the car? Yeah. Where were they at the car? I can't recall if they were inside or outside, but I was not near the car, so I wasn't with them. So you don't have a clear recollection of seeing them together at the car, right? Yes. Okay. That's yes. You don't have a clear recollection, right? Please repeat that. You said yes. and it was either you do have a clear recollection of them being at the car, or you don't have a clear recollection? Yes, I have a clear recollection they were at the car. You have a clear recollection of seeing them at the car? Yes. You just said that they could have been in the car, they could have been out of the car, in the car, or out of the car? It's been three years. I'm sorry? It's been three years. I understand that, sir. I'm just asking you what your recollection is. You said they could have been in the car, they could have been out of the car. Now you're telling me you have a clear recollection. Were they in the car, were they out of the car? I guess my recollection's not clear enough. they were around the car. Okay. And do you recall what they were doing when they were around the car? Most likely chatting. Not what were they most likely doing, sir? What do you recall them doing when you told us now that they were around the car? Chatting. You saw them chatting? Yes. What did you see in their hands? I don't recall seeing anything in their hands. You sure you're not assuming that they must have been there because you don't recall seeing them with your groups of friends that you were talking to? I'm going to object based on it. It's argumentative. I'm going to ask you to repeat that, please. Are you sure that you're not assuming that they must have been by the car because you don't recall seeing them with the groups of friends that you were with? So where we were, we were near the baseball field at Shumble High. The car was parked maybe 20 feet away. We were sitting near a curb or talking to a car near the curb. So they were in our point of view. So yes, I saw. Okay. So you did see them at the car? Yes. You saw them inside the car? Objection, asked and answered. I'll allow the follow-up. There's been some confusion. Go ahead. They were in the car. Not outside the car. They were in the car. They were in the car. Windows up or windows down? I don't recall. And when you left the parking lot at Trumbull High School, you said you knew that you weren't going to your house because the car took a left to Shelton, right? Yes. And you live in Trumbull. I do. And at that point, you said you assumed that they were going to drop off McKenzie because you knew she lived in Shelton, right? Yes. And nobody said, hey, we're leaving right now and we're going somewhere, correct? No. Nobody said that. The car just started following this direction, right? Yes. I assumed that was going home. And there was another car following you, right? The white BMW? There was. And that was Shane Coacher and Mike Bagley's car? They don't share a car. I believe it was Shane's car. Okay. That was Shane's car. Mike Bagley was with him? Yes. And you saw them following you? They were going to follow me. And how long was the ride from Trumbull High School to Tyler Rich's house? More than five minutes. More than five minutes? Less than 10? I don't recall the exact time frame, but it was more than five minutes. Had you been there before? I had not. And you said that initially the car came up to 43 Laurel Glen, but drove by it, right? Yes. When you drove by, you could see that there were people already outside of 43 Laurel Glen? Yes. How many people? I can't put an exact number on it, but it was less than the amount of people that surrounded the car once we turned around. Okay. And you said that was at least 20 people, right? Yes. Could have been as many as 30? Could have been. And so when you drove by the house the first time, was it 10 people in the yard? 15 people in the yard? I can't put an exact number on it. Was it five people in the yard? Objection, ask, and answer. You drove by, you saw these people in the yard, and then the car turned around at the cul-de-sac. Was that down at Farmhouse Lane where the car stopped later on? Might have to look at a map, but we drove by the rich house and turned around. Mr. Frasic, I don't mean to surprise you, but I'm going to come around you now and show you what is on the easel. States Exhibit 1. Let's see if that can help us a little bit. Okay. You got a pointer right there beside you. All right. Do you see the red dot? Yes. Does that look like 43 Laurel Glen that we saw in the other pictures? It does. And did the car that you were riding in come up Adams Drive and turn left onto Laurel Glen? I don't recall the exact route we took in. Okay. But at some point you went past 43 Laurel Glen, right? We were in front of Laurel Glen and then turned around at the cul-de-sac. And when you say turned around at the cul-de-sac, which cul-de-sac are you describing using that Exhibit 1 in front of you? There's only one up there. Okay. So you went down to the end of Adams Drive and turned around? Yes. And that is different than the other end of the street where you have the intersection with Laurel Glen and Farmhouse Lane, correct? Yes. So you were in the vehicle and it drives past. You can see people in the yard go up to the end of Adams Drive. Car turns around, right? Yes. And at that point, where did the vehicle go? After we turned around? Yes. It was back out in front of the Rich House. And when you say back out in front of the Rich House? In front of the driveway. Blocking the driveway so the cars couldn't get out? I don't believe it was blocking the driveway, but it was in the road. Okay. I'm going to show you State's Exhibit 49. Can you see that up on your screen? Yes. Okay. And can you describe for us using this picture where that car parked? Where the driveway meets the road in the middle of the road. In the middle of the road? It was not in the driveway. Not in the driveway? Yes. Closer to the other side of the street or closer to the driveway? I can't recall. And then at that point, the car stopped, correct? Yes. And you said that at least 20 people surrounded the car, right? Not at first. Okay. They were on the driver's side. Okay. How many people were there at first on the driver's side? Under 20. Under 20? Yes. More than 10? Yes. And you said at first they were only on the driver's side and that at first it was peaceful? Yes. What was peaceful about it? Can you describe what was happening? There wasn't any shouting. I would say that's peaceful. Okay. Were people talking? Yes. Were the windows rolled down? Mine was not. I believe the only window rolled down was the driver's side window. When you say yours was not, where were you? In the back. And you were near a window? You were up against a door? I don't recall, but I was in a back seat and the nearest window would have been one of those two windows in the back. Was there any music on inside the car as you drove there? I can't recall. And you said people were talking, correct? Amongst themselves. When you say amongst themselves, is that within the vehicle itself or between the two groups? When we were surrounded or when they're on the driver's side? When they're on the driver's side and you've described it as being peaceful and people were talking, who was talking? Was that within the car or was that between the two? It was between the two groups. Okay. Did you hear any threats being made? At first, no. Did you see any weapons? No. And then you said things started getting out of hand, right? Sounds right. You described tensions were escalating, right? Sounds right. And was Mr. Valley uttering threats at that point? I can't recall Mr. Valley talking at that point. You don't recall Mr. Valley talking to any of the people outside the vehicle? Is that fair to say? Fair. And do you recall where Ms. Trafficking was? Can't recall. She was in the car. She was in the car? She was. Was she sitting on Mr. Valley's lap? I can't exactly recall. Your attention was directed to the people outside the vehicle that were becoming more aggressive. Is that fair to say? Yes. And you've described that things were being thrown at the vehicle? Things were thrown. Do you know what was being thrown? Objects. What kind of objects? Hard objects. Hard objects. Do you know? Can you describe any of those objects? I can't. How did you know they were hard objects? Because it made a loud sound. As they hit the car? Yes. Did you hear glass shatter? I did not. You said that people were on the back of the car? Yes. Like on the bumper? On the bumper. Standing on it? Standing on the bumper. Bouncing up and down? Bouncing up and down. You could feel that inside the vehicle? If someone's bouncing on the bumper, the car bounces. How many people were on the back? I can't put a number on it. More than one? I can't remember. All out. You can't put a number on? No. There were people on the passenger side as well at this point? Once things got out of hand, yes. Once things got out of hand, as you've described it, in fact, the car was completely surrounded, right? People on all sides? Yes. At least 20 people at that point? Yes. Could have been more? Could have. And you said you were pretty scared? I was. What did you think those people were going to do to the car? Reaction culture circulation? Sustained. What was scary about that to you? You're seven people trapped inside a car. People banging on it, throwing things at it, bouncing the car. You weren't driving the car, right? No. You had no ability to make that car move, did you? I did not. Why didn't you just get out the door and walk away from the vehicle at that point? Because there was an individual right outside my window. And what was that individual right outside your window doing? Banging on the car. Banging on the door? Yes. How many people were on the passenger side at that point? More than I could count. People in front of the vehicle as well? Yes. And could you hear a rumbling sound of fists and feet kicking and punching the vehicle? I wouldn't call it rumbling. I can't remember the exact sound, but you could definitely hear the car being hit. Did anybody get on the front of the car and bounce up and down like they did on the back? I don't believe so. Did you see anybody reach into the driver's side of the vehicle? No. You didn't see anybody put their body into the driver's side of the vehicle? I don't recall seeing any of that. Do you recall any sort of struggle between the driver, Jack Snyder, and anybody from the group? No. I was too focused on what was going on around me. I didn't have enough time or the attention to look in front of me. You said at that point you were pretty scared and someone said go, right? Someone within the car did. Someone in the car said go. Someone outside of the car wouldn't tell them to go. I'm sorry? Someone outside of the car wouldn't tell Jack Snyder to go. Somebody outside the car would not tell Jack Snyder to go. Yes, it would not make sense. So somebody in the car said go. You felt the gas be hit and the car starts going down the road, right? Yes. Did you have a sense of relief at that point? I don't remember how I was feeling, but I was not happy. Still scared? Yes. Terrified? That's a good way to put it. And you said towards the top of the photo you were shown, which showed the intersection of Laurel Glen Drive and Farmhouse Lane, the vehicle stopped, right? It did. And you saw on the ring video people chasing the vehicle down there, correct? That's what the video showed, yes. Do you recall that? I can't recall it. Just a blank. Just a blank? Yes. So you don't recall while the car was going down towards Farmhouse Lane that things were being thrown at the car? I don't remember any of that. You don't recall being chased? I must have been in some sort of shock where that part is just a blur. All I remember is getting back on the curb. Was that, could you identify yourself as one of those people who got out of the car there and sat on the curb? I was within the four people that sat on the curb. So you say you were within the four people. You saw in that video that some people get out of the car, but the car itself continued to move, correct? That's what the video looked like, yes. Did you get out of the car before it continued to move? I can't recall that. So you don't know if you were one of those people that initially got out before it moved? No. And when you got out of the car and you went and sat on the curb, where were you as far as using exhibit one there behind you? Can you show us where you sat? If you still have the pointer there, that might be helpful. I believe we're around this area. Can the record reflect, Your Honor, that the witness is pointing to the area just in front of what has been identified before as 36 Laurel Glen? The court will allow the record to reflect that information. Thank you. And which side of the road did you sit on? After driving away from the rich household, I was on the right side of the road. You were on the right side of the road. So you were closest to that house, 36 Laurel Glen Drive, as opposed to the other side of the road? Yes. I can't put a number on the house, but I remember there was a house behind us. And you were on the side where the house was, right? Yes. And who was there with you when you were there by that house? Mackenzie, Demetrius, and Will. So there's four of you there. How close are you to one another? Pretty close. As like you could reach out and touch all of them? I probably could have. And when you were there, where did the car go, the pilot that was driven by Jack Snyder? It went back towards the rich household. I'm sorry? It went back towards the rich household. So immediately after you got out, the car turned around and went back? The car was stationary. So the car was stationary. Where was it when you were sitting on the curb? I can't recall how far away it was, but it was within view. It was within view? Yes, it was. Can you point out on exhibit one there where that car was? I cannot. You can't? No. Do you see the intersection there on Laurel Glen and Farmhouse Lane? I did. Was it at the intersection? I can't recall. So you don't know if it was beyond that intersection? I can't recall. You can't recall how far away that car was? No. And while you were sitting on the curb, you told us that the cars moved some distance away, but you can't tell us how far away it was. But you did see some Shelton High kids come running up from the direction of 43 Laurel Glen. You recall that? Yes. How many kids were coming running up? Can't put an exact number on it. I'd say less than five. Less than five. Did you stay in this tight group of four throughout the course of while you were in front of that house? Or did people split up a little bit? I can't recall. They might have split up. You told us before that you felt like you'd walked into a trap. Sounds right. And you said that you were sitting on the curb away from the car and you couldn't hear what was being said between the Shelton High kids and the other kids from St. Joe's, right? I couldn't hear the exact words. You could obviously hear that they're talking. Can't make out the words. But yes, they were talking. You said at first everything was cordial, right? It was. And then it escalated? It did. But you couldn't hear what was being said? No. And the car was still stationary at that point? It was. You don't know how far away it was? Nope. You didn't see any fighting going on between those groups? I did not. Did you ever see Mr. Valley over, if you're looking at exhibit one, just before the house where you've described yourself as sitting, you see there's an area where there are some woods or some bushes there? Yes. Did you ever see Mr. Valley in that area? If you don't mind, are you talking about this area over here? No, sir. Remember where you described yourself as being? Okay. Look, if you would, just before that house on the same side where you've described yourself as sitting. Sorry, just that. There we go. See that area of bushes? Yes. Did you ever see Mr. Valley over there? No. Because he was down some direction away from that by the car, according to your recollection, right? Yes. You never saw anybody spray Mr. Valley in the face with anything? No. You never saw a can of heat blaster being thrown? No. And you think that that lasted about five minutes down there, correct? Yes. It was pretty cordial. It was pretty cordial. But then you said it escalated. It did. What was the nature of the escalation? I believe it was between Mr. Rich and Ty Da Silva. It turned into louder shouting. And then it almost looks like one's trying to calm another down. It looks like Tyler was trying to calm down Tyler Rich, who was pretty hot. So now you can tell us that, in fact, you could identify two of those people that you saw down there as being Tyler Rich and Tyler Da Silva. I know it was those two people. How do you know Tyler Rich? I know his name from social media, I'd say. And Tyler Rich was one of the as many as five kids from Shelton High that you saw down there? He was among them. Could you identify any of the other kids that were down there from Shelton High? I could not. Did you see Mr. Valley interacting with Mr. Rich? Maybe they were chatting, but I can't put a definite on that. Okay. So you couldn't tell what you saw, Mr. Valley chatting with Mr. Rich? Mr. Valley, Mr. Da Silva, and Jack Snyder were together. They were together. Which way was the vehicle facing at that point? I can't recall which way. Did you see brake lights or did you see headlights? I don't know. Were the doors open or closed? I don't know. You saw Mr. Valley, Mr. Da Silva, and Mr. Snyder all outside of the car together? All three of them were outside the car. Which side of the car were they on? I can't tell you that. Were they moving around from place to place? I don't remember. The vehicle stayed down further away from you in this stationary position, correct? Yes. Until at some point you saw three people get back into it and the vehicle drove back to 43 Laurel Glen Drive, right? Yes. Three individuals got in the car and drove back to Laurel Glen. And you, Mackenzie, Demetrius, and Will were still on the curb in that same spot? We were still on the curb. Did you ever get up and move around to get closer to see what was going on down there? When they went back? No, when this was going on, what you've described down at the intersection with the Shelton High kids and the... I can't recall. I believe we were on the curb. You think you were just sitting on the curb? Yes. And then you said you heard Mr. Valley say to Jack Snyder, where's your knife? Where the fuck is your knife, right? That did happen. That's the only thing that you heard while you were seeing this interaction go on that you told us you could not see or hear what else was going on? No, you actually asked. You didn't ask me when I heard about the knife. Okay. It was... I can't put an exact time frame on it, but it was when I was either in the car or just outside the car, but it happened before the three of them went back. And it happened after the seven of us arrived initially on Laurel Glen. Sometime between the time that you first got there and were surrounded... Yes. ...and the time that they went back to the house... Yes. That's as close as you can tell us when you claimed to have heard this? Yes. So you could have been in the vehicle when you heard this, or you could have been on the curb when you heard this? I don't think I was on the curb because I saw with my eyes he was looking in the glove compartment and the center console. Mr. Valley was seated in the back seat? I don't know. Well, sir, who was driving the car? Jack Snyder. And Tyler DuSilva was the front passenger, was he not? He could have been. I don't remember. But if Lito Valley was seated in the back seat, your recollection is that he was in the glove box looking for a knife? If he happened to be in the back seat, I think it's within an arm's reach, the center console in the glove compartment. But I do not know if he was in the shotgun seat or in the back. This Honda Pilot, do you recall it being the interior being somehow different than the typical car where the glove box is right in front of the passenger? Can you repeat that? Sure. Was there something different about this Honda Pilot that the glove box was not directly in front of the passenger? I don't believe so. I believe it was a normal car. But your recollection is that Mr. Valley was able to reach into the glove box and was tearing the whole place apart trying to get it. The glove box and the center console were being rummaged through. And you said that he was on edge and he was looking for the knife because he was upset from what happened to Jack Snyder's car, right? I don't know exactly why he was looking for it, but he was searching for it. Well, you told us he was in the glove box, he was on edge, he was upset from what had happened to Jack Snyder's car. He was upset. Right. So this must have occurred after you had already gotten there and the car had been surrounded, right? Sounds right. Okay. So did it happen as the car was driving from in front of 43 Laurel Glen to down where you got out of the vehicle? Sounds about right. Okay. So now you can tell us, oh, actually, you know what? That is what happened. It was while we drove from 43 Laurel Glen down to 36. No, that's you narrowing it down. And it sounds right. It sounds right. Are you just agreeing with me to agree with me or do you have a recollection? No, he wouldn't be rummaging through a glove box if there was no, nothing going on. Like when we were just approaching, he would not be rummaging through a glove box. Do you recall the vehicle moving while he was, as you put it, rummaging through the glove box? Can I recall? Do you recall him leaning up into the glove box area? I cannot recall. But you recall him being in the glove box? The glove box was opened and the center console was opened. You saw those things happen? Yes. Okay. Did you see Mr. Snyder pull the knife out of the console? No. Did you ever see Mr. Snyder with the knife? No, I never saw a knife. You never saw the knife? Never saw a knife. Of Mr. Snyder, Mr. De Silva, and Mr. Valley, who did you know best? I can't tell you that. I don't know. They were all friends. They were all friends? Yes. How long had you known Mr. Snyder? Since freshman year. How long had you known Mr. De Silva? Freshman year. And how long had you known Mr. De Silva? Freshman year. All since freshman year? Yes. You were a sophomore at this point? Yes. So you'd only known them for about two school years? Sounds right. Never knew them before that? No. And you're certain that this occurred while you were in the vehicle? I said in or around. In or around? Yes. I could have been just outside the vehicle, but I was able to see it. So when you say in or around, you mean you might have been in the vehicle and you saw him going into the glove box, or you might have been outside the vehicle on the curb and you saw him go in the glove box? No. Okay. I was not on the curb when this occurred. You're sure of that now? Yes. What do you mean when you say around the vehicle? Within two feet outside the car. So you were outside the car, possibly? I said I could not recall whether I was inside or outside. And you were within two feet. You couldn't tell us how far away that car was before. But now you're saying that when this happened, you were either in the car or you were outside of it, but only within two feet of it. I didn't. The knife, looking for the knife or a knife, did not happen when I was on the curb. But when did it happen? When I was either in the car, because I saw it with my own two eyes. Either when you were in the car would imply that there is an or, and you've told us before, or when you were outside of the car, right? Possibly could have been once we drove away and we were all starting to get out of the car. Then I went and sat on the curb. But it was before I sat on the curb, before they went back, and it happened after we arrived. So you can't be certain of where you were when this happened? Is that fair to say? I can be certain that I saw it with my two eyes. Yes. You can't be certain of where you were when you saw it with your two eyes. Is that fair to say? I was within two feet of the car, if not in the car. When you were down in front of that house, was the car only two feet away with you? When we were where? When you were down in front of the house where you described getting out on the curb. Was the car only two feet away from you now? When I was on the curb? Yes. I told you I couldn't put a number on the exact feet I was from the car, but it was further than two feet. Further than two feet, right? Yes. So far away that you couldn't hear what was going on down there, you told us. That's what I said, yes. But you think that you could see the glove box rummaging going on? Like I said before, it did not happen when I was on the curb. When I was on the curb, that's when Tyler Rich and everybody came over and they were talking. So it happened before I went and sat on the curb. It happened either when you were in the car, right? Or when you were outside of the car, right? Not on the curb, though. But you can't tell us which of those two it was. I sat out within two feet. And in fact, you told us you never saw a knife that night, right? Never saw. But you heard about it afterwards, right? What do you mean by that? Well, you told us afterwards you came to learn that there was a claim of a knife being involved, right? When the police contacted me, yes. So the police told you, hey, there was a knife involved, right? Objection to what the police said. Sustained. You learned from the police that they thought there was a knife involved, right? Objection. Sustained. That's when I got clarification. And then you told us that the four of you, that being McKenzie Trafficante, Will Sinjuald, Demetrius Arfanos, you were talking amongst yourselves down there, right? The vehicle left. Yes. You could not see the car, but you could hear some yelling going on, correct? Correct. You heard a high-pitched scream, you told us, correct? Correct. And then the car returned, right? It did. And at that point, you were how far away from the vehicle? We got up and approached the vehicle. Okay. And so you were close enough that you could see that Tyler De Silva was bleeding, right? Yes. Bleeding a lot, you said, right? Profusely. Bruised everywhere, right? Sounds right. And I think you described him as being just about unconscious, right? That's what I said. And you said you could also see Mr. Bally? I could see him. Where was he? I was not inspecting him. Where was he? In the car. Where? I can't tell you exactly. You don't know if he was in the passenger side or in the back seat? I know Tyler De Silva was in the back seat. Tyler De Silva was in the back seat? Yes. You don't know where you saw Mr. Bally? No. Could have been in the back seat? Could have. Could have been in the passenger seat? He could have. Could have been driving? No. No. Who was driving? Jack Snyder. The whole time, right? I did not go down there and see what happened, but it's safe to assume so, yes. You didn't see anybody else drive that vehicle that night, right? No. That was Jack Snyder's car, right? It was. And you said that Mr. Bally looked shocked, correct? Yes. You said he did not look as battered as Mr. De Silva. I did say that. But he looked battered? He didn't look as bad as Mr. De Silva, but it also looks like nothing happened to him. He looked like he was in a fight. Looked like he was in a fight. Looked like he'd been punched in the face. I can't tell if he was punched in the face. I was not inspecting him like that. When you say he looked like he'd been in a fight, what do you mean? I was shocked, exhausted, could have been bruising, but my attention was more towards Mr. De Silva. You heard Mr. Bally say that he was on his back. I did. That he'd been on the ground. That's a call for hearsay. It's a light objection, but as to what the defendant said. This is what Mr. De Silva said. No, Your Honor, this is what Mr. Bally said. It's hearsay. It is hearsay. It's a statement of the defendants. It's your client's statement. It's not a position. I'll sustain the objection based on the hearsay. I said it be stricken from the record, please. The court will strike it from the record. Your Honor, may we have so far? Certainly. Let me just take a moment to clarify. So, ladies and gentlemen, the jury of the court did strike the last response from the record. And again, the attorney's question is not to be considered evidence. Thank you. You described him as being not as battered as Mr. De Silva, but you admit you weren't inspecting him, so to speak. Yes. At that point, Mr. Sengwald got a ride from Carolyn Takis. Yes. And Madison Chakanti came to pick you up, correct? Yes, simultaneously. It was about an eight-minute ride to your home, right? Sounds about right, yes. And you were sitting right beside Mr. Bally, correct? I was. Were you inspecting him at that point? No. Was there any music on in the car at that point? I believe so, yes. Loud music? I don't know. Do you recall when you spoke to officers about this before telling them that you did not hear any comments about a knife when they drove down the road and everyone exited the vehicle? Please repeat. Do you recall telling officers when you spoke to them on September 1st that you do not recall hearing any comments about a knife when they drove down the road and everyone exited the vehicle? I'm not too sure what you're talking about. Nothing, brother. Thank you. King, the council just asked you a little bit about when the car goes down the street, people are getting out. There's this moment where you say you get out of the car and then you go sit by the curb. So I just want to make sure that we're all on the same page. Car goes down the street. At what moment when the car goes down the street after the incident in front of 43 Loyola Glen, do you hear the defendant ask, Jack, where's the knife? Let me get the knife. Objection, Your Honor. Asked and answered. Well, this is redirected, so overall. Can you repeat that, please? At what point do you hear in the timeline, right, to the best of your recollection, when you drive down the street towards Farmhouse Road? You say you get out of the car at some point and then you're within, you're close to the car and you sit on the curb. But do you hear the defendant ask for the knife as you're getting out of the car and then you go sit at the curb? Or do you go sit at the curb and then come back closer to the car and hear the defendant ask for the knife? It was before I sat on the curb. So when you drive down the street, there's a conversation between the defendant and Jack Snyder where the defendant asks him for the knife prior to you getting out or just as you're getting out of the car. Yes, it was prior. And when you get out of the car, after you hear that, when do you observe him looking inside the car for the knife? It was prior to myself and others sitting on the curb. And at some point after you witness him looking for the knife in the car, is that when you go sit by the curb? Yes, it was after. And when you're sitting by the curb, I think you indicated you were sitting on the curb on the, if I may approach your honor. Did you indicate you were sitting on the curb, this is stage one, in front of what has been referred to as 36th and you were somewhere in this area here after that conversation occurred between the defendant and Jack Snyder? Yes, I believe so. So if the record can reflect, I'm referring to the area in front of 36th Lower Glen on the right side of the road. Record can reflect. So at some point in time, you're seated on the curb. Does the car move away from where you were seated on the curb? The car does move away. How far away does it move? Well, it eventually went back. Yeah. Okay. So when the car is in that area where you're seated, is it facing Farmhouse Road at this point or is it facing Laurel Glen? I mean, facing Adams. I can't exactly recall which way it was facing. But at some point, the car turned around. The defendant, Jack and Tyler, get in that car, turns around and maybe goes back to 43th Lower Glen? They did go back. So to the best of your recollection, the defendant asking for the knife happens after the incident in front of 43th Lower Glen, but before they go back to 43th. And 43th Lower Glen is the Rich household, correct? Yes. Yes. So the next thing I want to, I think you said on cross-examination that when counsel asked you, when did Lito ask for the knife, you said it happened before I went and sat on the curb and before Tyler Rich came over to talk. Is that right? Do you recall when the series of events? Yes. That's when it happened? Before Tyler Rich came down the street? Before there was that? It was before they went back and after the car got surrounded outside the Rich household. That's the best you can work with? That is the best I can work with. All right. Thank you. No further questions. Anything further by the defense? You were seated on the curb and you claim you saw my client reaching into the glove box. Not when I was on the curb. Not when you were on the curb. I just explained I wasn't on the curb. You were in the car when you saw him reaching in the glove box. I was within two feet, if not in the car, because I saw it with my own two eyes. You weren't on the curb. You weren't in the car. I could have been in the car. You could have been in the car. You could have been out of the car. I saw it with my own two eyes and heard it. What did you see with your own two eyes? The glove box and center console opened and rummaged through. Was the defendant in the car or out of the car? In the car. Where was he seated? I told you, I don't remember. The vehicle dropped you off by the curb? I got out of the car and sat on the curb. You didn't walk a long distance from where the car, where you got out of the car? I can't recall that. Nothing further. Any redirect? Nothing further, Your Honor. Thank you. Thank you. Watch for surveillance. All right, we'll take our afternoon recess, 15 minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, the jury will take our 15-minute break. Thank you. Court stands in recess. May I see counsel for a moment? Thank you.