A Digital Farming Solution - Farmlogics - Farm Management Software  #agritech
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Rq-ncR619WQ
People & Blogs
 When it comes to technology adoption, agricultural sector lacks behind other sectors. And one of the major reason is lack of proper infrastructure, lack of awareness of technology. We founded Farmlogix in 2016. We were in the agriculture industry for more than a decade, providing tech solutions to some of its large players. Over the years, I realized that although there are latest technologies available on the market, it's very hard to implement that in the agriculture industry because of the infrastructure challenges. When it comes to designing solutions for agriculture sector, we have to combine the latest technology with yesterday's technology. That's what we do at Farmlogix. How can you do it at Farmlogix? You know, in the agriculture industry, there are a lot of challenges. The challenges with the network, the challenges with high-end, sophisticated systems and infrastructure. So we have to take care of all these things when we provide a solution. So I would say like we have a practically adaptable solution rather than very cutting edge high-end technology. We provide solution based on the need and the feasibility. some of our customers who wanted a solution where a network coverage is not available. Some of the customers we are providing with 4G, some of the customers we are providing with 2G solutions. And we also provide mobile application, tablet-based solutions or IoT-based tagging or satellite imaging-based solutions. We actually focus on the solution rather than the technology. When Farmlogix started, we always wanted the solution that we are going to deliver. We have to have a very positive impact on the sustainable efforts of our clients. So all these companies that we work with spent millions of dollars towards uplifting the lives of farmers, taking them out of poverty. And Farmlogix plays a very important role in providing real data and analytics sustainable team to come up with better sustainable policies and practices for the organization. One of the benefits of working with Farmlogix is our top management comes up with combined on-ground experience of more than 60 years. And that too with some of the largest agri businesses in the world. And that helps us to identify your problem better than just any other technology company. So that we can address your problems better and come up with better solutions.