Will The 'HAY SMELL' Go Away After Curing?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rRRSOtnK368
Entertainment
 Hey everyone, you're here with Mark on Perfect Gardens TV. So today we had another wonderful question from Markin. He says, but there will always be some sort of hay smell, right? After a couple days of drying, right? And that goes away after 12 to 15 days. If you haven't caught some of our past videos on the breakdown of the $30,000 field study report with Harley Smith or how to increase oil production. It's about a six minute video. If you haven't checked out those videos, I highly recommend to go back and do so because it's going to go into depth of what I'm only going to briefly cover in this video. So what we have come to discover in the last few years of really testing these plants and gaining more controlled studies is we learned that these plants peak out in terpenes around their fifth week into flowering. So let's say if you're an eight-week flowering, night-week flowering strain, those plants will peak out in their terpene production around the fifth week into flowering. If you are growing like a 10-week strain, those terpenes peak out around the sixth, maybe a seventh week of flowering. And then from that point forward, what the plant begins to do is it actually begins to cannibalize the terpenes into cannabinoids. So the hay smell, the hay smell comes from a variety of things. What we've discovered is it just doesn't come from the excess chlorophyll that doesn't break down through the curing process. But what's also happening is your terpenes, even after they begin to get cannibalized around week five into flowering to harvest, they still keep getting cannibalized after in the curing process all the way to the point, actually even past the point where the moisture gets all the way down to 13 to 17 or 18% moisture on the plant, on that curing. Whenever there's water, some type of enzyme exchange is going to happen and it's going to keep happening whenever there's moisture in the environment, even if it's a small amount of moisture. So the terpenes are still going to be cannibalized even after you cut the plant down, even after you've cured your plant and it's dried and ready to be smoked. Just because of the moisture in the environment, you're going to still keep having your terpenes cannibalized into cannabinoids as a plant gets older and older and older. So the issue around this with the hay smell is that if you do not have healthy plants, and this isn't for all strains, but because a lot of strains, they just have, you have poor genetics in the first place. And if you don't grow a perfect plant, those terpenes are going to be cannibalized early on. And there's not going to be enough good smelling terpenes for it to be stronger than that, than that hay smell, that hay smell that, that is the green earthy plant smell, right? So yeah, it's, you shouldn't get a hay smell. And the only times you will get a hay smell is if you had some type of problem during your grow, the plants weren't growing very healthy and they weren't able to put a large amount of terpenes onto the plants when they started peeking out. Then the plants started to cannibalize this terpenes. And when you went into harvest and curing the remainder of those terpenes that smelled good, were cannibalized into other cannabinoids. And so the hay smell ends up overpowering the smells that are coming off the plant. So, and it's very tricky. A lot of times when we harvest the plant, we still have a decent smell, but then it starts to turn into a hay smell. And again, that's because of the cannibalizing of those terpenes, even after harvest. So if you get a hay smell, you're not going to get rid of it. The thing about it though, it's still going to be good smoke. It's still going to do its job. It's still going to have a sedative experience. You're just not going to have the flavor and it's not going to have the great bag of pill. If any of you guys have had other experiences than what I'm discussing, please leave it in the comments below. I'm always looking for new questions and new comments to bring to the surface and share with the rest of the channel. Have a great grow. Please remember to like, share, subscribe.