Management Practices in Livestock Raising "Cattle"
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RRUPVuXTEu0
Entertainment
 Okay, so a pleasant morning, afternoon, evening to each and every one of us, especially to our beautiful, energetic, and kind-hearted teacher, Ms. Rose Ann Cuezan. We are the group 9, and we will tackle today about the management practices in livestock racing. So we, the reporters, first to report is me or Sabia Carmela, and next to report is Tangaha Jess Lee. And we are from Bitlad2G1. Let's have an energizer first. Yeah, so this is called guess the animal. Actually, there is only one animal to guess, so think and analyze. Okay, so let's start. Guess what animal I am. So there are three clues. First clue is you can get milk from me. Second, I eat grass. Lastly, I begin with the sound sea. Okay, so do you have no year answer? Okay, very good. Yes, I am cattle. Hi, I am cattle. So our topic is all about the management practices in livestock racing, specifically cattle. So there is no word cattle in our slide. Okay, so let's go to the next slide. So, objectives. So we know already that every report must have an objective. So our objective is at the end of the lesson, you, the learners, should be able to describe four reasons that you would do horn castle. So there are many reasons, but we have here four reasons that we summarized it. Second is identify the three methods of dehorning. So you will learn about how to dehorn a cattle. Third, identify the three most common ways to mark cattle. Fourth, identify methods used to castrate cattle. Fifth, identify the three ways to administer injunctions. And lastly, identify two ways of restraining cattle. So let's define first what is cattle. Cattle are domesticated, held as property or ways for use. Specifically, ang mga cattle, guys, is from the bovine family or from the bovine animals. Which kaming mga animals or the cattle is geatiman or ge-raised ni siya sa mga farm, sa ranch. Kasagayan na itong makita ng mga baka or mga cows can be seen in the farm. Right? So, why is it called cattle? Cattle. So, as I search on the Google, cattle is derived from the Latin word kaput head. So, ang kaning kaput head is originally meant unit of livestock or one head. So you might be asking, maybe you might be asking there that ngano de ang gitawag ni siya unit of livestock or one head. Okay, every time the handlers or the one who care for the cattle or nagbantay, kay muihap man d'yo na sila or mo count sa ilahang mga cattle, especially sa ilahang mga heads or paddock. Kaya ang head na part is the lierge siya ma-distinguished, the lierge ma-count. Same process sa person or the human, especially in the school. Especially in the school, guys. Kanang na mga earthquake drill, mga fire drill. Magtapok man d'yo ng mga bata. And then, naman mo ihap kung pila ka buhok ang mga bata. So, ang una jud nila makitaan ang ulo, diba? So, that's the time na ilan na na siyang ipho yung kumpila. And kumpila ka cattle. So, balik na sa cattle. And likely, the result is most accurate count. So, sakto. For example, yung mga ihap is 40 kabuok ng cattle. So, which means you have 40 head of cattle. So, another thing is, you might be asking, guys, is there a difference between cattle and a cow? Yeah. Nakaw, nautana sa klanang sa kong self. So, the cow and the cattle are two terms. And that we use in everyday language. So, kaning duha d'yo is, is permit d'yo na to ni Magami to describe a same thing. So, sa parihara d'yo na sila. Actually, ang cow is a bovine female. Yeah. So, all cows, panang baka, is from the boostaurus na species. Especially sa mga bovine family. So, ang kanang cow, guys, kanay mong makitaan cow, is mga babae na siya, mga female, mga bovine female, na they are born to offspring. Which means, manganak d'yo na ang mga cows. Yeah. So, how about the cattle? Ang cattle is referred to the number of bovines. Cattle is referred to the number of to the number of bovine, regardless of sex. Depende na sa mga handlers, kung ipun ba nila ang tanang babae, tanang cows, and then tanang lalaki. Depende na nila. Just simply put this idea na all cows are cattle, but not all cattle are cows. Because, naamay mga lalaki. Dili manay tawag nga, cows ang lalaki. Ang babae, may gitawag o cows. And the rest is cattle. Alright? Nasaptan ba? Okay. So, let's go to the next slide. In our objective, there is reasons why we should dehorn our cattle. So, what is dehorn? Dehorn is to remove the horns of cattle and animal. And, dehorning is also one of the management practices for the cattle. So, if we say dehorn ganin, naano siya yung mga laing-laing process para ma-remove ang horns sa cattle. Ngaano ding i-remove ang horn? So, first of all, guys, ako rin sa ni-explain later, I mean, further explanations about kanang reasons why we should dehorn the cattle. So, first of all, the cattle is naadun na yung mga horn, mga sungay, right? So, kabantay mo mga sa mga baka, mag-away d'yo na sila and then magkasamaday, diba? So, the main purpose of dehorning is to prevent the growth of the horns. Para dili siya mutubo so or dili siya madalig-dali nga mutubo ang yung lahang horn. And, later on, I will discuss the different methods, process of dehorning and soon, you can learn how to dehorn a cattle. So, mawta siya naadun na yung mga naadun na yung mga naadun na yung purpose ang dehorn to prevent injury to animals as well as the cattle and dili rasad sa mga cattle kundi sa mga handlers mga nag-care or mga nag-raise sa cattle. Okay? So, there is also a link for you to have the idea of how to dehorn. Alright? To summarize the video, if you have not yet watched the video, based on the video, there are reasons why we should dehorn our cattle. There are methods to dehorn our cattle for reasons that you would dehorn cattle. Yes, nakadun na yung reasons as what I've said ganito. Ngunit yung putlon nila ilang sungay. So, first of all, for for first of all, horn cattle bring less money when sold. Yes, so, mga cattle buyers are not looking for reasons to pay cattle producers more money. Just like the horn, they are just looking for reasons to pay less for calves. So, delay na sila mo gasto ugdako para sa horn lang. It costs cheap than the calves like that sa baka. So, second, less space in trucks and feedlots. I'm sorry. Yeah, we know already that the cattle has horn. Ang measurement sa horn is about 9.5 and 17 centimeter. Yan, kataas ang nilang horn. And, yes, there is so much space a feedlot cattle need. So, the handlers must provide a minimum of 32 square feet of space per head. Yan, nakadako space ang need para sa Osaka cattle per head. So, kung dako ang cattle, it require 40 to 60 square meter per head again. Yan, nakadako need of feedlots ang Osaka cattle. How much more naapay mga sungay ang cattle. Third, is less damage to facilities. Yes, maglanghas mo dyan na ang mga animals. Labi na ang mga kattles. If without the horn, they can less damage to the facilities. Lastly, less chance of animals injuring one another also to the people. Yes, what I've said ganiha is there to prevent injuries from their cattle as well as the handlers. So, they just think about prevention is better than cure. Yan, naadun na siya. Every time naamoy mga livestock, naamoy buhi, prevention is better than cure. Naadun na yung mga risk, labi na sa mga cattle to their handlers. Sakit kayo dyan na na once na maigo sila sa ilahang sungay na sakit kayo. So, not only for the handlers parasad sa horses, kapwa nila animals, also to their selves parasad sa ilahang kaayo. Because sometimes caught in defenses or so to prevent feedings. Marag yan na. Yan na. To prevent feedings. Yes, so let's now proceed to the methods of dehorning. So, naaytuloka methods of dehorning which are the chemical paste or the caustic stick. Second is hot iron. Lastly is clipping or sewing. Let's have the first method. If we say chemical paste, these are dehorning paste to prevent growth. So, the paste is applied to horn buds of the calves under 2 weeks of age. So, it applied to the areas of the head where horns will start growing. So, that stops the horns from actually starting to grow. The main purpose of dehorning is to stop the growth in the dehorning further to prevent injuries. Like that. So, naka-advantage yung first method is bloodless. So, gamay raang dugo na mugawa sa ilhang buds. So, second is less painful kaysa sa hot iron and less risk of injuries said sa calf handlers. Labisan sa mga tao. Kaling dehorning pace according sa mga handlers is not too painful. I mean, it causes pain na ang june na sakit but the pain is less than is less than dili siya kayo sakit. So, it will be effective for about 90 minutes so, more than 1 hour and 40 minutes, right? I mean, 1 hour and 30 minutes. So, it is also a quicker recovery. from the cattle. For me, this is the best method. This is the best method because it is easier and quicker. Second is the second method of the horning is the hot iron. Yes, so, hot iron is used for the calves. Hot iron is used to kill the surrounding tissue around the horn buds. Yes, we know that the hot is having a high temperature. So, the hot iron is used to kill the surrounding tissue. It is also very used method or the pupillar method because it is fast and almost no blood is lost. But, it is very painful for the cattle, for the calves. Yes, so, it is very useful because it destroyed the horn producing cells for about 20 seconds. Yes, you are very useful and then prevent the growth of the horn for the use of the hot iron. Here, an example video, I mean, the link of the video. Based on the video, guys, this is methods of dehorning, methods of dehorning, which is hot iron. It has to restrain the calf head using a head restrain. So, it hang up the calves and then, second is, he clip the hair to expose the horn butt of the calves. Third is, to inject local anesthetics. Fourth is, when disbudding calves with heat, use a device a diameter just larger than horse base. Apply minimal pressure and do not leave the hot iron in much longer, especially for young calves. Third methods of dehorning is the clipping or sowing. So, cano siya is used on calves that are bigger and have horns too large to use the other methods or on grown cattle. So, kasagaran ni sa clipping or sowing magamit sa mga dako horns, mga large horns. So, if we say clipping ganito guys, this is a method for reducing sweating and risk of pneumonia. Deliver na siya para sa deliver na para remove sa mga horn kundi sa mga health sa mga cattle. Alright? Ang naka advantage lang sa kaning clipping or sowing guys. It's very stressful and then naka do yung dugo sa dapit sa buds sa calves which is not good. You know that the horning is for preventing injury but I think it would kill the calves because of the method itself. Like that. And again, there is a link there of the methods of the horning which is the clipping or sewing. So yes, we have here now marking cattle. So these are the reasons why we should mark our cattle. Yeah, you have here, we have as you can see on the pictures that there are examples of marking cattle. There are reasons just like required in some states. Yes, some of the country is really care for their livestock. And then cattle as they're leading to improve management. During the Philippines, it's marked marking so it's important hand to cattle or any animals or mawala so other states is required for mandatory requirements in business. Second is makes management easier. Yes, the marking purpose is easy to identify and keep accurate records para sa mga cow, mga cow, cattle and para sa truck records sa mga status sa ilahang livestock management. Like that. Third is mark once with vaccinations. So kanisa is for vaccinations purpose. All the animals must be vaccinated. So kanisang cattle is must be vaccine. must be vaccinated. So para sa kaning para kaning purpose sa naming marking is for vaccinations as well because para ma-identify kung navaksina na ba ning cattle or wala or wala. Okay, so we are done now to the methods of dehorning, right? So let's now proceed to marking cattle. There are three most common ways to mark cattle. So the first one is the branding. Iron oldest and most commonly used method and actual metal brand is heated and burned into the animal's hide. This causes the hide to not grow hair back and animal will permanently have the mark. So the first marking cattle is the branding. So if we say branding guys, it is one of the marking cattle or other livestock especially sa mga cattle. Nasa na sa mga pigs. Usually makita na to sa hip sa atong cattle para maka identify dahiyun sa owner. Example, if mawala ganiang atong cattle or ang cows, it can be easier torn to us to the rightful owners. Kaya naamay branding, naamay marking, right? Namanay mga matailhan nga, oi, amo anang kuhan, amo anang kato, amo anang baka. Yan na. There are types of branding which is, first one is the hot iron and the second one is the branding freeze metal. So, if you say hot branding, guys, I mean, the hot iron, naano siya yung mga kasagarian aninga marking is naajun na sa mga paa ganisa kanang tol for us to, for them to identify immediately if ilahabod na ang cattle or cow. If ilahaba ng cattle or if ilahaba ng cattle. Second is, second type is the branding freeze brand metal. So, kanisiyam, it is also an hot, a hot iron, but it is performed using a collant. But it is performed using a collant and a copper alloy branding. As you can see in the picture that kanang nagigani aso kaya it is using hot iron dyan siya. Ng ipapaso dyan ang calf ang usaka cattle. That's very hot. Nasa chemical ang gigamit para sa kanang branding freeze brand, which is first is the liquid nitrogen and second one is or the combination of dry ice and alcohol. Money siyang itawag na itong collant. Kanang magpakoan siya, kanang magpa kawaman sa kanang hot iron, mabugnawan gani ang marking. Marero na siyag kuan ka nang maghimo, ganang espada, kanang kahuman o kanang pa hot, pa init. Ibutang manday yung nasa tubig para ma ma form na gani ang shape. Pareha na sa kanang marking or kanang branding na ilang pa. So, the next marking cattle is the tattooing or tagging. Yeah, so, delirious sa mga tao ang na ay tattoo, kundi naasad sa mga animals, labi na sa mga cattle. Because this purpose, because it has purpose for identification. So, ang tattooing numbers are in to the ears with a handheld apparatus that has needle like teeth. So, kasagaran na to ni makita ang kaning mga tattooing numbers sa tunggan sa to ang mga cattle. Yes, example na is kanang na sa left picture na na eye numbers yes, that's an example of tattooing numbers. And with the use of the tagging, it can create tattooing numbers. Ang kaning tagging is made of metal or plastic na handheld siya, which means makupot sa handlers na needle and ink. So, it can create tattooing numbers. So, lastly, the last most common ways to mark cattle which is the neck chains. So, neck chains is common practice in animals like dogs, cats, horse, and other animals. At what is said for identifying dogs? So, cattle is useful not as useful with range herds but more common for purebred herds and their race. So, for example, mga cows, gano din dilikay siya useful para sa mga cattle because once nagani mawala or makawat, dilira pari sa obang marking na branding or tattooing kay na-ajud sa lawas, nasa ilang dunggan, kay mauli na ditso pero kanisyang mauliran na nila ditso. Another thing is technology actually keeps track of animals movements. So, this event, this technology is magamit niya sa mga cattle for tracking their movements especially antibiotics, vaccines, genetics, and the nutritions as well. So, this is what we call biotechnology because the use of technology used for the living organisms like animals, the cattles, the use for the technology is for breeding. Again, it is also capestruck of animals movements for identify easily if that cattle is vaccinated or not by color codings of the neck chains and tattooing that they keep their records for their real-time movement also the cattle's ambient temperature. Okay? So, I think that would be my report. Next is Miss Jessly Tangaha. Good day everyone. Before I proceed, it's me Jessly Tangaha. So, let's start. What is castration? Removing the testicle of a male animal. Testicles are the male reproductive organs that produce stormed sperm. So, castration is mauni ang paggapon. Mauni ang mga organ na makakos nga managhan or musanay ang cattle. Example aniniya kay kanabitaong kapuno na to ang iro nga laki. Diba kumuna kay ni sa itong pang dungug. So, ingun ani. Reason for castration to make the cattle docile which means easily handled. To prevent and plant matting and to decrease aggressions in hands on farm safety for handle the animals. When to castrate the younger the better and at birth is the best time before 3 to 4 months of age after 8 months and they will have a staggy appearance. So, mas maayo nga bata pa ang katol di kapuna kung pwede pa lang sa pagkataw sa katol makapuna sa wala pa ang 3 to 4 buwan kay mabot ang 8 ka months mat trade na sila. So, next is so, there are 3 methods used to castrate cattle. First is knife. Most widely used method not to be used with cows more than 3 to 4 months. Danger from bleeding and infection. Management is needed. So, dili ang nga to gamitan o knife ang bata pa ng katol in more than 3 to 4 months. Kay possible nga magdugo siya o ma infection. So, management is needed. of this. Basically, ma-remove jud ang testicles sa katol if kana lapas na siya sa 4 months. So, so, ma-complete jud ang ma-remove jud siya completely ang testicles sa katol with use of knife. So, next is bordeso. Crushes the cords above the testicles and popular because it is bloodless. So, before nato gamitan o bordeso sa pagkuha sa testicles sa katol, nato sa higitan ang babaw sa testicles sa katol para dilit siya makaagas o makadugo. So, na siya disadvantage na totally pinch of or in the right place. Carl can show sign of stagganess. So, dapat ang katol kay dilit mapiit. Dapat na siya ibutang sa safety nga lugar when it comes mag castrate sa katol. So, next is banding. Use an illustrator. Illustrator kay kanabita mura siya o guma nga mainat siya. Gamay na circle pari ang nasa picture. Kaya nasa picture nainat na lang siya pero gamay na siya na circle. Instrument is used to place a tight rubber band around the scrotum above the testicle. So, gigamit ni siya para ma ma makapahugos sa testicles sa cattle. So, basically, the blood supply is cut off from the testicles and they waste away from lack of blood. So, pwede siya matangtang pinaagian ning banding. Safety and cattle. Protect yourself. Keep safety and know your surrounding. Think and read all medication before administering. So, understandable na kayo siya. So, there are three ways to administer injection or three types of vaccination. First is intramuscular or IM, subcutaneous or SC, intravenous or IV. Intramuscular or I.M. Should given in the muscles of the neck to avoid blemishes in more valuable carcass cuts regardless of the age of the animal. So, intramuscular of the medicine is more rapid in the muscle than under the skin or sa unuran sa liog para malikayan ang mga carcass cuts because of the good blood supply to muscles tissue of cattle. Next is subcutaneous should be given at the base of a tented fold of loose skin lifted away from the animal with your free hand. Subcutaneous injection should be administered in front of the shoulder. This appropriate for cattle of all ages and this required that of proper injection method the animal be appropriate to avoid the injury to either the animal or the operator. So, last is intravenous injection goes into a vein and directly to the animal's bloodstream. It is used for medication that can cause severe muscle damage. So, intravenous is an injection for the cattle to the cattle. So, here are the three ways to administer injection or three types of vaccination. So, intramural scolar site the green one to get the injection then subcutaneous height then avoid that. So, two ways of restraining cattle safety for cows turn to ball and squeeze shoot or head catch. So, first is safety for cows turn ball as assessed to the century of rotary via tunnel under the turn ball. This is a requirement for safety and fire regulation. So, safety for cows turn ball this is one of the important when it comes livestock. Livestock is the other animals should safety first because it is important that safety is the number one priority when working with livestock. So, the second is squeeze shoot or head catch. I usually found on a squeeze shoot which provides additional safety for those huddling cattle. O, sa sad ni siya, nag-hatag o dugang klawasan sa mga nagbuhi o mga cattle. The cattle squeeze shoot is the most important piece of equipment in the cattle handling facility because this is where a procedure will take place and the greatest risk of stress and injury occurs. So, cattle management vocabulary gestation the length of time a cow is pregnant. So, gestation is pag magdu sa cattle. Gestation period of cattle is 274 days. Gestation period of human is 280 days. So, maumaura sila. Dolora. So, perturation the act of giving birth usually lasts around 8 hours. So, parturation is pagpanganak. So, the in the cattle this is normally occurs in less than 8 to 12 hours. So, the membrane are considered a nutrient if after 12 hours or 8 hours they have a not been shed. Dystocia problem during labor. Birth defect abnormality that is present at birth. So, religion at tumalik kaya. Naadjud sa hayop na ang abnormal na sa pag-ataw pa lang daan na siya sa pag-ataw. Muraras na siya o mag-ataw. That's all. Thank you for my report. Okay, thank you so much for your wonderful and well explained report Ms. Jess Litangaha. And now questions there are we prepared five questions for you. So, the first question is what are the three methods used to castrate cattle? Second, which provides additional safety for those handling cattle? third, what are the three ways to administer injections or three types of vaccinations? Fourth, how many days when gestation period of cattle? Lastly, for you, what is the best method for dehorning cattle? Thank you so much for listening and watching our recorded video for our reporting about management practices in livestock raising specifically cattle. I hope that you learn a lot from us. Thank you so much guys. Thank you.