Effectively Managing Cover Crops
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RTbVw9GZfws
People & Blogs
 Hi, this is Jonathan Rotz, field agronomist with Pioneer. Today I want to talk with you a little bit about cover crops. Now, it's early spring and that means we're all getting ready for another great year, another great growing season. And one of the things that we think about this time of year is preparing that field, whether that be tillage or for a lot of my guys that are no-till, it's thinking about cover crops. In this field, we have some really nice growth on our cover crops and some might think about terminating, but actually a fair amount of folks are learning that maybe this isn't the best thing to do. Now, most of us understand the benefits of cover crops. Soil conservation is a huge thing. We've had this field covered all winter long, which means it's held the soil there and it's kept everything in place from erosion and wind erosion as well. But there's lots of other benefits as well. One thing we never want to forget about cover crops is that great root mass that's under the surface. There's a tremendous amount of biomass here. And not only do we have that biomass that's creating carbon and everything else underground, it's also creating a tremendous amount of soil structure. Think about all of this structure underneath, some of it being brought to you by the roots alone, other, some of the fungi and other things that are growing on that root and the structure that they can create and promote. That biomass gives us the ability to run across this field without having compaction and other things like that. Plus, to put a lot of carbon or organic matter down into that soil. Another great part about this is the reduction of weeds that you're not going to have near the competition early spring that you have to deal with as you would in a fallow or an open field. Biological activity is a huge part of our cover cropping system and as we keep something live and growing, there's a tremendous amount of biology that continues late into the fall and early spring as our soils warm up. Now again, some folks might think about this and look at it and say, boy, it's really time to go out and to terminate that crop. But let's think for a moment that all of the things that we just mentioned, soil conservation, the organic matter building, all the biological activity, including also that nutrient retention and release, is going to only be benefited as we allow that cover crop to grow longer and longer. I always say farmers should always think about trying to harvest as much sunlight as possible. That's true in our crops and it's true in our cover crops as well. As we allow this plant to grow, through the process of photosynthesis, that plant is bringing carbon dioxide in and releasing oxygen. Where did that carbon go? It went right into the soil, either through our roots and things like that, or once we do terminate this plant, all the carbon that it has sequestered is going to turn into organic matter into that soil. Also, don't forget, when we talk about organic matter, not only is that good for the soil, but it also increases our nutrient holding capacity and increases our water holding capacity over time as we increase that organic matter in the soil. And that's great for our operation. Now, another benefit that maybe we don't always think about, but there might even be potential to gain revenue from this crop as well. For instance, if you have changed a practice, you may even be eligible for Corteva's carbon incentive. Things like brand new to cover cropping, new to no-till. Maybe you're trying your hand with a grass and a legume versus a straight grass. What about allowing that cover crop to grow longer, or maybe even establishing it earlier in the fall? If you have anything like that going on on your farm, you may want to talk with your granular digital business manager for more information. Another big thing I'm talking to guys about this year that's a huge benefit to allowing our cover crop to grow is the fact that we don't have as much glyphosate in the marketplace as what we would like to have. Some guys are fairly tight on their supplies, and we know some of these cover crops can be fairly hard to terminate. So what would it look like to, instead of burning it down now and then coming back and maybe needing another application closer to planting or post-planting, what about just going in and planting green and then applying? Now that brings me to this whole idea of planting green. That's going to be what this field has done, but I'll throw a few cautions out for you just in case you're thinking about this and are new to it. First off, typically when we think about planting green, thick stands are not the best for us for that planting. Anything around a bushel of rye, and as you get above that, a bushel of rye is great. As you get above that, you're probably going to get so thick if you let your cover get really large that it may be a challenge to get planted into and have that seed slot closed correctly. The other thing is, is not all planters are created equal whenever you think about planting green. Make sure that your planter is set up in a sense that you can go in and make sure that you get a good planting in that. If you're unsure, there's lots of folks that have been in and doing this for a good while. Go ahead and reach out to one of them and talk with them a little bit. The other thing I always tell with guys is to always think about starting with small changes. If you're new to cover cropping, think about planting early or maybe terminating early, or at least only play with planting green on some of those early planted acres where your cover crop is not going to be nearly as big. Now, one thing that I'm going to do is we're going to return to this operation, probably even this field, throughout the planting and growing season, and we're going to watch some of this in action. So stay tuned. Now, if you want more information about this, don't hesitate to reach out to your Pioneer sales rep, agronomist, or other employee. For more information about the carbon incentive that I talked about, talk with your local granular digital business manager. Thanks for your time and attention, and I hope you found this video informative and helpful. I wish you the best this spring as we prepare for 2022 to manage and get the most out of your Pioneer products. Thanks again. That concludes this Pioneer Agronomy video podcast. Visit our page on Pioneer.com and follow us on Twitter and Facebook for more agronomy insights. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.