Assemble The Garden Tower Project
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rVgftB2t9p0
Howto & Style
 So right here I have the garden tower and I'm going to assemble it and what it is is a tower compact tower that you can grow up to 50 little plants and I plan on putting some strawberries. The other nice feature about this is that you can put food scraps in the middle of it and the plants will eat it and so I put it here on my deck where it's close to the kitchen so we can just easily put food scraps in it. So let's get started. Alright so let's get started. I'll see you next time. I'll see you next time. So, I don't quite have enough dirt to fill this up, but I'm eager to get some plants in there. So, I'm going to go ahead and plant the strawberries that I have. So, the instructions say that fill it up about a third of the way with soil and then add approximately three gallons of water to the soil that's there. And I'll just circle this to evenly rotate it. So, I've given the water a chance to percolate down. And now, I'm going to get these strawberries out. Now, these are pineberry, white Carolina strawberries. And then there's some red ones in here as well to help in the pollination. So, I'm going to go ahead and get these out. I end up repurposing some old feed bags in order to fill up with some topsoil from the high tunnel project. So, I'm going to try to fill it up the rest of the way. Then the idea is that over time this water and stuff will come down here. So, I'm going to go ahead and let it go. Let it get situated before I plant anything else in the top. But, I'm really going to try to fill it up. So, I'm going to go ahead and let it go. Let it get situated before I plant anything else in the top. But, I'm really thrilled to try this out. Now, these are available on farmerbride.com. And I've purchased this one with my own money because I wanted to be able to try it out firsthand. And so, these two rows are going to be strawberries. And what I like about this is that you can rotate it around. And so, if you have like a small amount of space, you've got 50 opportunities to grow something. Which I think is incredible. Now, they do offer an upgrade kit where you can get coaster or wheels for the three legs. That way it can be moved around a little bit. But, I have it on my deck. So, that's close to the kitchen. So, we can put food scraps in there. And, this way is south facing. So, it should get plenty of sun throughout the day. No matter which side the plants are on. So, thanks for watching. Hope you enjoyed this video. And, make sure to get your The Garden Tower Project 2 on farmerbride.com.