Lawn OR Garden Fertilizing Made EASY  -  EZ-FLO Injection System
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rwWP4tePCRc
Entertainment
 Howdy folks, it's a beautiful day. It's the first day of spring. Happy Nature's New Year, right? So the first day of spring, I'm out here at a friend's house. He has an irrigation system. So he's got fescue grass. Mine's Bermuda, he's got fescue. He came from Nebraska and he said that's what he had over there and that's what he wanted here and it works really well. So his grass stays really green. He keeps it really, really nice. So first day of spring, it's not warmed up a ton yet. His is way greener than mine, obviously. But basically he says that I'm not getting a fair view of it. You need to come up and see it when it really warms up. But it's a nice day today, so we're on our way there. But what we're showing you today is the Easy Flow fertigation system. What do they call it? Or the injection system. They sent me that one that I hooked up to my sprinkler. At the same time, they sent me, for him, they sent the one that hooks up to your sprinkler system. He finally got it set up. He's had the well people out multiple times trying to figure this thing out. They apparently do injection systems in any way. They got the right parts or whatever it was. And finally got it set up. I think it's been like a year. Finally got the thing set up. And we've been out here fiddling with it and finally got it figured out. It was the first time he's turned it on. First time he's had his sprinklers on this year too. But we got it figured out to where the blue's going out, the clear line. So you can tell that there's fertilizer going through there. Once the fertilizer is gone, the water will be clear running through that clear line. So you can tell that you need to refill it. And so he's got all his zones set up. He does have some fiddling around to do to figure out exactly how long it's going to take to run the fertilizer through that system. And that's going to be pretty system dependent because each system has a different PSI, etc, etc. But we've got it working. He had a little clear container. He put it in front of the sprinkler, pulled it out, and there was a little bit of blue in the water in that clear container. So we know that it's coming through the system. Pretty cool. So right now he's got the granular fertilizer that they sent. He's also got some liquid iron, some different stuff that he can put in that system and run it through. You can put it on a fast mode, which is what he's got it on now, trying to figure out how long it takes for that full thing to go through on fast mode. You can put it through on slow, which means like it'll just slowly drip out, leak out, while you're doing your normal irrigation, like all through the season, over months and months. So it's pretty cool. Kind of a game changer because you think about how long it takes you. You know, he's got like an acre out here. How long it takes to go spread fertilizer out over all of this. Or instead now he can just dump some fertilizer in that tank, turn on that irrigation. Kind of a game changer, like legit. I think that's awesome. It's really making me want an irrigation system. And maybe that'll be something down the road. At some point I'll have an irrigation system. Every lawn pro nerd has to have an irrigation system, right? I don't know. That's something that I'm looking forward to. But anyway, this is super cool. So I'm just excited. I need to come back out here and see. I'll have to show you guys his nice fescue lawn. He's got some awesome landscaping out here too. Maybe, maybe an LT turf episode, perhaps. I don't know. We'll see this summer. But anyway, I've heard from other people that his lawn is amazing. So this summer I am excited to come back out and see it. But that's the EasyFlow injection system. Basically, kind of a short little video. But something super cool to look into if you have an irrigation system. Because it is, that's legit a game changer for fertilization. Like I would love not to have to, even though my setup is pretty good where my sprayer works really well and I've got that boom. But I would not have to do any of that. So it's very interesting. Something to think about, right? But anyway, like I said, just a short little video. Wanted to show this off to you guys. And that'll do it. So I hope you have a good week. Have a good spring. Happy spring. First day of spring. Get out there in the lawn here pretty soon when it's warming up. We're all getting excited. Way too much. So sorry if there's some wind noise there. I bet it probably is. But I will see you guys later. Have a good one.