Seneca Park Zoo leads effort to save pollinators facing extinction in New York
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RYp24IOiM0c
News & Politics
 And there's a lot of buzz around this story. Look at this bumblebee going to work right here. This is a crucial part of our food chain, but close to 30% of pollinators are facing extinction. Chief investigative reporter Berkeley Breen is live at a pollinator garden in Brighton. Burke, that's part of the solution to keep the bees alive. It is, Brett, and what's key here is that they're all native plants to New York. And so these plants here naturally fit with the native bees and butterflies in New York, part of the food chain that we deal with. And the seeds for what you see here get grown at Seneca Park Zoo. Yes, we're standing in front of the garden that we have at the zoo. This is Foxglove Beardtongue. For about the past eight years, the zoo has been taking seeds from their pollinator garden and giving them away or selling them to entities in the state, including New York parks, colleges and universities where they can plant them. And right now, after about eight years, they've got 125 acres of gardens just like this to help the pollinators. Native is important because it supports the native food web that we have. So the native insects like monarch butterflies and all of those native insects, which help pollinate all of the apple trees and all the food source that we have around. The DEC says more than a third of the pollinators in New York are at risk of extinction. The decline started 50 years ago. A report by Environment America says New York is doing better. A honeycomb map of the country says New York allows only certified applicators to buy neonic pesticides. What can it still do? Well, the one policy out of the five main recommendations that New York hasn't done yet is block the use of these dangerous pesticides, known as neonics, in state wildlife areas and similar public lands. That bee has to climb right into that little flower. Megan Mayer is part of Healthy Yards Monroe County. She helped plant this native pollinator garden behind the United Church on Winton Road. These bees also pollinate 80 to 90 percent of all flowering plants, including our food. So without these pollinators or a decline in pollinators, we're going to have some problems with our food sources. Quick correction here. It's the first Unitarian Church on Winton Road. Brett, those neonics, they are in the coating on seeds. They get into the tissue of the plant, and they're basically poisoned for bees. It says that that's why lots of people who believe in this believe it's very important that they get eliminated from the state of New York. But a lot of farmers, huge farms, use them. Very interesting. That garden, though, it's nice, but it's not very big. Yeah, it's not very big. And the other thing they say is bees don't travel very far. So the hope is that the homeowners here and in all the communities and schools and businesses, government buildings will plant similar gardens so that there's a network of these gardens around, and the bees can go from one to the other. And they believe that using native plants is important because they think they've evolved the same way the bees and butterflies have, and so they fit together like a puzzle. Very interesting. I just put a bunch of catmint plants in my garden, and they're pollinators, and I've already started seeing the bees as well. Burke, thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.