How To Service a Tractor? A Master Class from Mike!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S1qMZxS0r2Q
Howto & Style
 So we thought as it's piddling down the rain today, we would have the Sammy in the workshop and do a full service on her. Now, a lot of people call servicing a tractor very different things. Some people will say changing oil is a service, but today we're doing a proper service. What you'd expect you to get from a dealer going through it with a fine tooth comb. Now we have Michael here, who is a seasoned service technician and has worked on many different brands of tractors. Am I right in saying that it's Zeta, Case, Massey, as well as every other brand you can probably think of? Well, Lamborghini as well. He's a mechanic. He's already going off on one let's say, that's why I haven't given him a mic yet. So yeah, so how important is servicing a tractor? Well, that's a good question. The more you service the tractor, the more you look after it, the more you maintain it, the better it will be. So let's give Mike a mic and find out what his opinion is on servicing and what's included. So then Michael, what's your opinion on servicing tractors? Well, the manufacturer will give you a service schedule. That's just the general guidelines because a tractor could be in hot, arid, dusty conditions, could be in freezing cold, dry conditions. So you've got to tailor your service to your requirements. So they will suggest like a thousand hours for transmission oil change and all the rest of it. But your transmission oil depends on what it's been doing. If you've been drawing, drying lots of different trailers with different manufacturers' tractors, you'll be getting oil contamination from trailers and all sorts of stuff that you can plug in in the night. Whereas if you're just trundling around with your own gear, then you're not going to get as much contamination. So you've got to tailor it to what you muse at. There you are. That's some expert advice right there, right? Well, you know what an expert is, don't you? That's all I know, I drip under pressure. All right, that's Michael's viewpoint on it. What's your first port of call when servicing the tractor? Well, your engine oil is generally the first thing. So drop your fluids? Yeah. And one of the forgotten things is your antivorese and your coolant, because it don't last forever. So you need to keep it topped up. When you've had your engine running for a little while and everything's warmed up nice and fluid then rather than a black sludge. Hopefully it isn't a black sludge. Because the oil filter on it, I think he's around here, isn't he? It runs a lot better if it's... Am I right in saying that's the oil filter right there or is that a fuel filter there? No, that'll be your oil filter. It'll be your oil filter, but it'll be changed for a minute or two, is it? It don't look like you've been changed for a day or three, don't you? No, no. Your fuel filters. Fuel filters every side, aren't they? Oh, up there. Yeah. Another one in line one down there. The in line ones, I prefer to have a plastic style one where you can see what's going through your filter. Purely because I'm a miserable salt and I don't necessarily agree with biodiesel. That seems to be the invention of the devil. When you say a full service, you really mean you're changing the whole fluid, all the fluids. In other words, you're changing your axle oil, your reduction oils and your transmission oil and filters. Generally speaking, that's what I would term as a full service, where I suppose only really doing the engine, fuel filters, oil and filter, and then also check the rest of the fluid levels and blow out the radiators and stuff like that. So, again, different terminology. People, one would say full service, which is only that little job, whereas I would say full service is the whole thing like. And you have a lot of things now where they've got extended service intervals, which is very good in some respects. But when you're servicing, when it used to be like 250 hours for engine oil service, you'd be actually physically looking at the tractor. So you'd notice where their steering joints is getting worn or where their drive shafts getting slack or all of these sort of things. Well, if you extend your service hours and people's being pushed for time and that, they don't notice half of this stuff. So it's good in some respects, but bad in others. Now, we have already replaced the filter, haven't we? Is that one there? Yeah. Which was done, well, less than a tractor hour ago when we replaced this whole gearbox. Mike stripped that out. Now, I'll link that video at the end of this one when he stripped all of that out and then Max done a bit to it. And Mike done most of it. We replaced all of the clutch. Clutch plates. Clutch plates, I say. Clutch plates. In the front PTO. So that's all been done. Anyway, let's get back to them. Let's get on with engine oil, shall we? Yeah. Yeah. It seems like a good plan, doesn't it? Getting the gear out of the day. Look, we've got a Milwaukee boom light on the situation. But you've got to, you're undoing a bolt on the side there, Mike, rather than on the bottom. I'd expect it to be on the bottom. Yeah, well, you've got a prop shaft running through your sump. So you've got one on the side, which somebody would have been an Allen screw, but they've obviously had problems and they've welded a different style of fit and all. Which I'd prefer a nut than a wooden Allen screw any day, wouldn't you? Well, it's got its place, but a lot of times it's not but a nuisance. Especially if someone else has been there trying to maul it off before, I suppose. Let's see what the good stuff looks like then, shall we? It's black and runny. It's certainly black. He's got a second tub there already. Yeah. When we start with one tub, you're running around to find a second one pretty quick. Yeah, I've got another tub because you need to do both sides because you've got a valley either side of your... Oh, I see how it works. So we've got the little Milwaukee light there as well. Look, now on this side. Oh, I see. So that's the original one there then, with an Allen bolt. Yeah, but he's been chewed about a bit by the look of this. Yeah. Look, that's just as a next resort. A bit more. There we are. Years ago, your oil filters just used to be a paper element within, sitting within a metal canister. Yeah. Yeah. Which, to my way of thinking, is the most eco-friendly general way of doing things. Things change. Might be, yeah, just about right. It's all right when you back the workshop and wash the thing off when you've finished servicing, but when you might be out on the farm somewhere and you've got dribbly oil down over the side of everything, it's not quite, not quite too nice, is it? No. All right, well, that's dribbling away. You can do your other bits and bobs. Lovely. So we'd better look in the box and see what we've got. Yeah, that sounds a bit too carried away. Massive thank you to Cramp for continuing to support us. So that's the nice thing with Cramp, is you can pretty much guarantee that they'll have everything you need, or even a tractor which isn't, shall we say, as commonplace in the market. It's a good farm to work with. Order one day here the next, but that was about two months ago when I planned on doing this video originally. There we are, Michael. We've got some, oh, there's actually genuine SDF parts as well. Sammy Douchfar. Yeah. Original, original parts. I'll let you before I start. That's probably the one I want for your engine. Yeah, looks similar. I haven't got an engine air filter. No. Do I ask Alex where it's too? Yeah. Still in the warehouse. Wouldn't like it when Ryan was here. Mike was just asking what date it was. I said, what's the 15th of April? You should know that because of your birthday yesterday. Yeah, you get it. Everyone can wish Mike happy birthday in the comments. You get like that when you get older. Forget birthdays all together. So we are dating the air filter, oil filter. At least someone's got a record of what's going on. It needs a new pen by the look of things. Hmm. Can't get that in the budget I'm afraid. See what that word is as well. I also have to find another inline filter because that filters an afterthought. Yeah, that one there. Yeah. Yeah. I suppose we might have got some of that in stock possibly. Yeah. I would have thought so. So here we go. What are you up to now Michael? Oh lubrication is the key to everything isn't it? Wow. So we'll wipe a bit of the oil over the rubber gasket to make it seal first time and then only time. So hand tight. How tight does that have to be here Mike? As tight as you can get it with your hands I guess. Depends if you're a gorilla or a wimp. What would you describe yourself as? You gave me a wimpy gorilla. In the mist. You can see that I didn't want to go any further. You don't want to have a strap wrench on there with a six inch, six foot bar. No. You've got it down and you don't want to just screw it on so he's slack. Yeah. Now I don't know if that was accident or on Pericolus but look. Once he's screwed in look how level that date is on there. So it's still readable it's not upside down. Was that deliberate or um? Of course deliberate. We've got fuel filter up here then. Okay and you've got a little water to drain off water or if you're really good you drain the diesel down before you take the filter off. So when you're as talented as you are. Talent. Yeah. The genuine one going back in SDF. I don't think there's a great deal of diesel in the whole tractor if I'm honest. No there isn't a great deal. Yeah. And there isn't you know you haven't got no sludgy, gungy, rusty bits and bobs in top of the filter so it's not so horrendous. So would you on a fuel filter then would you wipe fuel around this um rubber gasket as well? You still give it a bit of lubrication yeah. Yeah. That's got a slightly different because that's a different style of filter. You've got a different style of seal. Oh I see. So molded in together. Yeah. Whereas that's an old ring with another ring on the center. Mm-hmm. Sometimes they'll come out and stick up up on the housing and then you don't notice it and you've already got one on your filter so then that causes just just make sure you haven't got one left up the filter housing. Oh I see. Oh I haven't done me a little bit of some one just to make it yeah. So do you date your fuel filters on? Yep. What's that a Donaldson filter on there then? Donaldson yeah not a bad brand. Well you've got to be fair he isn't that bad. He isn't horrendous is he? And then you've got another one in there which is basically a safety filter and that one's inner and outer. Yeah that's good. Very nice. So that just outer just needs a blow off then does it? Well being a tight old sod and depending on what you're doing I'm just blown out. You're talking about me or yourself now? Well I think it applies both ways. Where's your mask Michael? Well as I come back to the old birthday when you been old for you ain't got that long to go anyway so that really make a lot of difference. You lasted this long. Yeah. On this one you've got a little pipe on the bottom of your filter. A lot of times you'll just have a little rubber valve on the bottom. Yeah. And that'll collect any heavy stuff so you just clean that off. But these they've got a pipe which comes back to there so you've got a little bit of vacuum in there which drags any of the dirt out just expels it. Yeah. While that's still dribbling away I'll check the coolant. If I can get the cap off. There's one thing we did replace was the top cover there didn't we when we first got them. I really can't remember to be fair. Would you do an anti-freeze test on this then? You've got your turkey baster right there Michael. Yeah well that one's a nice easy one. For somebody who haven't got very good eyesight. Oh you've got your big balls. Big balls yeah. Yeah. Yeah. On your balls on this one it just it's if people make wine and that they'll be familiar these sort of devices. Just that the number of discs that float tell you the degree of frost that you can withstand. So that means we're up to minus 15 then is it? Yeah so I don't think it'll get minus 15 this week so. No I think it'll be right. But you know it's it's getting getting a bit cloudy so if you wanted to change it it wouldn't be the end of the world. Now anti-freeze is also poisonous. Don't drink ethylene glycol. The fan belt, two drive belts just tension wise. So how would you break the tension then? Because you can obviously get pullers kind of like springs. For like your timing belts on car engines and that you get spring balances and oil onto it or you get a harmonic one which is basically goes by the side of the belt as they run. But yes they could do just a little bit of tightening up because if you see that I didn't turn the old fan with it. So you shouldn't be able to turn the fan in other words now? All right this one hasn't got a viscous fan off is it? A fixed fan. So when when your engine starts the fan is going all the time. Some stuff without viscous fans on. So it turns on when it gets hot in other words. It's a free a free wheel basically until they need that they sense the temperatures getting a bit warm and then they firm up and start to drive more. So there's either that or you go electric fans. But what you'll notice mostly will be your alternator will start squealing. Just after you've started and if you need to swing some for a little while the battery needs to be recharged more so the alternator is trying to boost your battery back up and then you'll find they'll squeak for a while. Once you've done a power in the back end of the battery the squeak will go away. Right. But this is just normal conventional with an alternator that you move the tension it. A lot of stuff now has gone when we flap out serpentine belts so the belt will go round water pumps and all sorts of air conditioners and whatever. Then you can check your oil on your reservoir there. You can see it nice and pink. So that's power steering is it? No. No. That'll be your brake. Brake sorry. Yeah. Again you need to before you top it up you need to know what you've got in there. It isn't necessarily the normal ordinary dot uh three four style brake fluid. It could be ATF fluid. It could be mineral fluid like the citrins used. But that mineral fluid the caps is usually a green colour. It's not it's not um written in tablets of stone but it gives you the indication that it is not standard brake fluid. And if you're an old soul that you don't mind dying it you can test it and you will test it with brake fluid over anything else. What does brake fluid taste like? Any good? That's not recommended at a shop but the worst stuff is um if you can test antifreeze. Ethylene glycol is a nice sweetness so the sweeter it is the more antifreeze you got. But if you have if you go without organic acid compound technology that tastes absolutely horrendous. Then they put the taste there just to scourge people from drinking because you've got all sorts of people now who don't drink anything. And he's still dribbling on but one minute he tells you that antifreeze is poisonous the next minute he tells you that it tastes quite sweet so it might make sense to why he's like he is like he is. I'll let you speak for yourself on that one. I ain't brave enough. I wasn't brave enough. I can only apologise I ran him over. So he's down here. Are you on the front axle now Michael is he? Well I'm just having a look Ryan. I don't remember you. We have put his mic back on because we found out we lost his mic just now so apologise if the audio wouldn't quite well it should have been. Oh I don't speak half-hole to understand me anyway. You've got a bit of a fan base following and people like listening to you Mike. Oh do I really? Yeah they use it for bedtime stories send them to sleep. Do some audio books. Yeah this one got brakes on the front. Yeah. Right. So that means that your oil in your reduction hubs got to do a lot more work. So they're worth changing it then. Well that's what I'll be looking a minute. Yeah. Oil drain plugs. Do we need to replace any washers or anything on them? Well if I don't really think you're going to need to worry too much about that. Some will give you a copper washer or a sealing washer with with your service kit but if you ain't got it it's not the end of the world. I would use them if they got them but other than that I wouldn't worry too much about it. That's real world advice that is. Not by the people in the book who say you've got to replace this and you've got to replace that. I agree with Michael on that one. What oil do we have then Michael? 1540? Yep. Lovely. Cramp again. Thank you very much. Very kind of you. You may also notice that we are a mirror missing because we had a bit of fun with the hedge the other day. I say we, Mike. But it turned out the brackets were seized anyway on both mirrors so we've now got some lovely new mirrors. Try not to drop them while I'm showing them to you. Oh hello. Yeah but they're actually the genuine ones which are slightly different size to the ones that were on there but proper SDF mirrors. Now they weren't from Cramp, quite possibly could have gotten them from Cramp but they actually came from Blakewell Services and Barnstable who are our local SDF dealer and they had them on the shelf ready to go. So yeah proper. Thank you Luke. So that is where the oil goes in then. Yes. Right above the oil filter. Hope you're using a bun there Mike, hope you're not going to spill it. I can't afford to spill. Rained up dinosaurs. Yeah. Dinosaur syrup. I've never actually found one in there yet. No? No? Not a little velociraptor claw or nothing? Nothing. No. Not so much as a tooth. That's probably all made up anyway. How many litres is that Mike? Two, four, six, eight, ten if my mask is right. There we are. Ten. Looks about the same as what we've got in the buckets at the bottom. Might need to top up a little bit. He's right on the top mark now. Yeah. If you went over the top mark it's not the end of the world because the filter's going to fill up. Yeah. Go settle in around where it's got to settle. So do you think being that those front axles have got so much work to do then with the brakes we should just drain them off anyway? Well that's about to look. Or just make a view on it. That's why I've been looking to see what it's like first. But if you lean in over the top about halfway down the reduction of burials here is a plug. Yeah. That's your level plug there. So I'll see if I can crack that one off. And see what happens. And that's getting rid of the... Do you want me to leave you there for a minute while you crack one off? Yeah, it'll take a minute or two. You've got your... got none done have you? Eventually yeah. You just frep that gorilla tight. And what type of oil goes in there Mike? Well because you've got wet brakes and that in there you can put in the same as what would be in the gearbox. So it's like a super universal oil. Oh okay. Because you've got the brick in. Suto? Yeah. Well that actually don't look that bad. All right. Bit of a crude way of looking at it but... Mm-hmm. What's the level like? Just about right. Oh nice. I don't think I'd worry too much about that. Mike's happy, we're happy. Well you're in thrashing up and down the link road with a trailer load of Swedes or whatever behind you. Right I'm off to order a trailer load of Swedes. I'll check them. Did you say blonde ones? Blonde ones yeah. Blonde Swedes. Yeah. Of the female variety. I don't want the male blonde. Not not not not Swede heads. No not Swede heads no. As long as I can't say. No. Sometimes we've got to hold ourselves back. Now one person did say that I wasn't very humorous on our videos here back along and it's probably because my sense of humor is rather dark similar to Mike's. So it's easier not to try and be funny because otherwise I'll probably get in a lot of trouble. But there we are never mind. Oh there he is Michael. Crack it off. A little bit tight. Oh look at the cardboard here look. If he's not writing on it he's dribbling on it. There he can. You can see a nice. Oh yeah. Cool. No. Can I be quick enough? So what's the telltale sign of that oil being good then? For me is I don't have to buy any more oil but if it's dark got any glittery bits in there or just smells burnt then it's time to uh change it on. Replace it yeah. Yeah. Right. Yeah. Right. Yeah. That does look pretty nice and clean and healthy doesn't it? The purist would probably say change it but he isn't paying for the oil was it. But the realist is um is us. Yeah well next thing on the on the list is level plug for the actual axle. Oh I see yeah. Because that just covers the reductions and your brakes outside. Mm-hmm. Would be nice to have it just there. On the front nice and down. Now do you know he's behind you. Yeah. Just underneath the underlick ramp. Oh yeah there he is. Somewhere about there. Yeah. Level then on the front axle same principle. That's a level mark is it? Yeah well as a general rule of thumb gearboxes axles reductions sort of halfway up the casing. Yeah. So in this case the casing is that so about halfway up. Mm-hmm. And if you match it to the other side that'll be about right. So that's the front axle done then Michael. Yeah just check the level on that one. Yeah. See um next pour of cool then. Huh? Next pour of cool. Oh so we'll do the hydraulic filters. Oh yeah. So I'll get another bucket just to catch oil. Lovely. You're having fun in them there mate. Well they've always got three there. You've got three have they? Yeah. Oh. Well they've only got two. Found the number three. All they look lovely and easy to get to Michael. Well they ain't too bad. Once you're in here. Yeah well they didn't. The old tractor's fairly clean so you didn't cover it in cack is it? No it is true. Sludgy. Yeah. It's up to you but if I if you buy a vehicle I'd go give it a good service to start off with then you you know where you're starting from. That was the plan when we got out. Yeah. Just drop those three and put them back on again in other words. Yeah and check your oil. Yeah. Level. Make sure you put the right filter back in the right place I guess. Well I always it's like anything else when you when the storeman picks the filters and all of this of it they think it's some they think they got the right ones and sometimes you get out on the farm and it didn't quite quite like that so before you get yourself all covered in oil and doing filters just make sure you got the right try to make sure you got the right ones. Yeah. Lovely. Yep. Very default. And there's our old filters out. Condition of the oil Michael? I would probably change it to be fair. It's got that way is it? It's looking a little bit darker. Yeah. Some oils are colour yeah. Your standard oil like us been using is just oil coloured. Yeah. Some some manufacturers will use different coloured oils which is just their their thing like like you can get different coloured greases. Oil looks a little darker than I would generally like. It isn't it it isn't horrendous but. So is that a plug plug in the bottom there beside the filter where the filters were then to change that? You can do it that you can you can undo it via plugs and such like but because you're scrolling it's like doing the filters is a bit of a pig of a job so I don't bother with that as much. I usually pump it out through the trailer services and then drain the last little bit out from underneath or else you're missing about the buckets and cans and. So how would you drain it out of the? An old hydraulic pipe plug it into your services better if you've got a tap on and then you lock your spool lever back so he's pumping. Get back here stick that in your drum turn your tap on oil comes out. Fill your drums up until you can't get any more oil out. Then turn it off and then. So as long as nothing's moving that's all right then. Then you get in underneath and you can take your final because there'll be quite a few litres of oil in the back end of a tractor. Yeah. You know because you can imagine you you've got to have a fair bit of tip on your rams and that on your trailers and that. And if you're doing it all from underneath. A lot of buckets. A lot of buckets and potential for getting covered in oil in it. True. So that's all the fluids and everything done Michael. Yeah. Now I suppose what else what else have you got to check over? So you've got your lights and that to sort to check make sure all that works. You've got grease it all up. You would if you if you've got the gear to do it just jack your wheels off the ground. Make sure your wheel bearings and steering joints and things like that's all in all in good order. And we've got cab suspension on this one haven't we? Yeah you've got a couple of springs and a panhard linkage I think that's what you call them. You've got a couple of springs there and then you've got you can't see it very well but there is a linkage that goes across to keep everything trued up and it's just a matter of looking at the bushes and and just to feel the things. And so everything else is all sort of visual inspection really? Yeah well that comes back to my argument if you extend your service periods nobody's actually looking at these things. And then you've got your grease nipples to go around and just make sure you're level you know stuff is just working. It isn't necessarily strictly in the in the service side of things but it it's well you marry might as well to make sure you cook latches and that work. Yeah that's really about it I would have thought. As Mike just said there's probably other bits here do going around the tractor like obviously tightening wheel nuts and everything checking all of those. Now this video has probably gone on for quite long enough for this tractor service but what I'd like to know in the comments is would you like to see Mike do anything in particular like would you like him to see him how he checks the wheel bearings on the front or how he looks at the cab suspension to see if that's all working. Any in particular videos you'd like the knowledge of this man here to be divulged into video form because we can do it we can sort that out. As I said you know Mike's going to go around now and do all those bits and pieces and everything on the tractor lights check the brakes check the wheel nuts check everything else he just said linkage grease everything. Yeah let us know in the comments if there is anything in particular you'd like to see him do or how he does it and we'll go from there but hopefully this video has been useful for someone and given a little bit more insight we know we've got a lot of youngsters and everything who watch the channel so it'd be good to show them what is involved in the service so I thought that might be quite useful. Anyway let us know in the comments and we'll see you in the next one. Cheerio, bye!