Various Techniques and Methods Explored To Enhance Productivity in Agriculture
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Sf3yPct1eOM
News & Politics
 Runaid Arousalam, through the Ministry of Primary Resources and Tourism, encourages entrepreneurs to strive harder and explore the latest technologies that can be used to improve the quality and quantity of a farm's yield. Modern technology is capable of reducing treatment costs of farms and crops, and among the new technologies now in use in the country is the fertigation system. As the name implies, it involves fertilization and irrigation. Apart from the substantial cost of the system, skills and knowledge on crops and plants are very important. The benefits of using fertigation includes providing complete nutrients, which is easily controlled according to the type of plant and its growth. Apart from that, the system also enhances the quality of the crops and other yields, the efficiency of fertilizers, and reduce the use of pesticides. The fertigation system is actually based on two words that are combined, which is fertilizer and irrigation. In the language of the language, it is called irrigation and irrigation. The system has a function that is to provide the irrigation system and irrigation system in one system, and then to the plants. Through existing物ériers used to capture all the nervous damages and other vegetation. They are just DOUGES and picket up a stick. The help from their crop scatter is this Fergus and Field is efficient and difficultter. I do at the same time. Meanwhile the Medgro tech company has introduced a system called farm boat it is a high-tech system that uses an application downloaded into a computer system or smartphone to run or manage the farm boat the farm boat application ensures the farm will be protected and under control even when the owner is away from the country the system also reduces the use of manpower technology we get from our main source is in California we get permission to become the only source in Brunei to sell farm boat this is two farm boat in Brunei and this is one of them we sell for public our goal is to introduce Bruneian who can use the farming traditional method that this farm boat exists that can make our work fun and be updated to the current technology using Wi-Fi farm boat we have three functions in this time we change it to give it air for our farm weeding and seeding