Farm Equipment Storage Buildings
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sf8zcAOYB-I
People & Blogs
 The thing I want to go over is about the portable farm equipment storage buildings. And we had talked about the 46 foot portable engineered truss structure. Right. We had talked about that we have two great portable structures and for the agricultural community, fast covers are a great option because they give you maximum square footage to store your farm equipment with the portability of a building that in the event that you ever wished to move it to a different site on your farm, you certainly can do that because the way the building is designed. Many of our ag customers not only use it for farm equipment storage, but for cattle handling to keep their cattle out of the weather, especially during times of calving and things like that. And when you talk about being in a floodplain, the building certainly can be moved out of harm's way in the event that it needs to be moved to higher ground. And how long does it take to disassemble a building and put it back up in a different location? Well, generally, if you did a partial disassembly, you certainly could do that in a day or two. Many of our ag customers have what is known as the MacGyver influence and they have the ability to put plates underneath our building, whether they're 2x6, 2x8 steel skids. And they, in many instances, take their farm equipment and drag fully structured buildings to different locations depending on their needs. So they've become quite creative and the FastCover product certainly has the ability to withstand that sort of activity. I see here a picture of one of these buildings and I was wondering if you've got a big piece of farm equipment, do you have different door options for different size equipment? Yes, you can do a number of different things. Generally the most economical type of door would be a fabric roll-up door, which you can probably do 15 wide by 16 high door, which is economical but not necessarily practical if you're moving your equipment in and out on a regular basis. We offer a steel reinforced fabric door in a multitude of sizes, fit-fit seaters, pressure, or combine headers that will fit the end users need. And those doors are slightly more expensive, still a good value, but certainly make it easier for regular use. And then finally, although FastCover is not in the commercial door business, we have numerous third party connections where we can assist a customer if they wish to put in a steel overhead, a roll-up door or a commercial door or something or a bi-fold door. And in those instances, we generally match our customer with one of our suppliers and they can purchase directly from them and that adds greater value to the equation of buying a FastCover. Thank you for watching this video. We greatly appreciate you to be selected in the FastCover product. We are a family owned business manufacturing our products in the prairies for the prairies weather. We invite everyone to stop by our location and we are open to the public and are more than happy to assist you directly in your fabric-covered building needs. Thanks so much and remember it's a FastCover.ca. Many Trans Jungle