Farming Feeds Alabama - Catfish
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=shfK85gMpmU
Nonprofits & Activism
 Music I'm a catfish farmer in Greene County, Alabama. We raise catfish on 250 acres. We've been raising catfish for about 40 years on our farm. It's a family farm with my brother and father and I. You know that's what it's all about, family life. It's something new every day, but the greatest joy you have is the family you have with you that works with you day in, day out. I get to spend a lot of time with my kids and enjoy watching them grow up on a farm and showing them how we can use the land to provide a wonderful product for people all across the country. Well our product is better than anybody else's because of the way we raise it, the way we feed it, and the way we control all the water. We also feed our fish the best diet possible. We are very proud of our product and we want them held to the highest standards. We're all for the USDA inspection. It'll be good for all of us as an industry. We don't use the chemicals the other countries still allow. We want what's best for the American public. The catfish industry has been very good to our area of the state. It provides about 6,000 jobs around the state and approximately $160 million impact to the state. It's the economic engine that drives our area. You know there's jobs not just on the farm. There's jobs in the processing plants. There's trucking jobs that haul fish back and forth. There's the same crews that harvest the fish. You have feed mills employing people. So it really is just a huge employer of the community. We're constantly working to promote the health of our environment. And we need to preserve the land, do the best we can to use it while we are here, but leave it so it can be used again. We are proud of our product and we know it's a good, safe, wholesome, nutritious fish. And there's nobody out there that grows better fish than the Alabama catfish farmers. J. Education Time Time Time Time Time Time Time Time Time