Forage Species and Establishment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=shJNrfasxr4
Education
 Which one's the pointer? The red dot? Oh, there it is. Okay. You all know who I am, so we'll go on. Okay. I guess a little about me, I'm on call from our field offices in the southern part of the state, roughly from Springfield South. I get a lot of questions from our offices when they can't answer anything dealing with forages or livestock, they tend to call me. And so I'll be, I've been on a few farms here with some of you, and otherwise I'll be answering questions from other folks. But in here, basically we need to, you know, need to find out about an operation before you start making any recommendations. Number one, what's been, what's growing there now or what's been growing there? The other speakers, Chris and several of them talk about soil tests. That's one of the first questions I ask anybody. How old are they? I've talked to folks that's like, yeah, we took a soil test and we seeded it down. When was that? 20 years ago. You know, so two or three or four years. I think University of Illinois says a soil test every four years, but you need to do that. Look at what's growing, what's been produced. Are you going to make hay or pasture? That makes a little difference on the species, more on fertility. The type of animals you're using, you know, the number, whether they're going to be rotated like Chris was talking about, or continuous grazed, those types of things. If you use a rest period. Ideally, if I can walk a pasture or a forage site with somebody, kind of see, find out what they're, you know, if it's been managed. You know, if you got mostly bluegrass and Dutch white clover, generally it's probably been overgrazed for a long time or it's only one pasture. Talk about what weeds are there. They're kind of an indicator. As Chris was talking about, broom sedge in the southern part of the state and even up in the central part of the state it's starting to show up a lot, which is tied into pH and fertility levels issues. Generally, I like to find out what kind of forages have been growing there. You know, when they planted it 20 years ago, what did they plant it to? And generally they'll be able to tell you something if they remember. Maybe not if they bought the farm. But there's going to be some of that seed in the seed bank if they can start to manage and do things a little different. Some of that might come back. Sheep, generally graze closer than most of our animals other than horses. And horses are probably the worst spot grazers we have because they've got teeth on their upper and lower gums so they can nib it off real close. Cattle, they need a little taller forage because they tend to graze that off and tear it off with their tongues. Goats are more browsers so they're going to work on the forbs, the brush, the trees, whatever they, and the goats have the sixth scent of when a nutrition, when any forage they're eating is nutritionally at its highest, that's when they're going to graze it. And seem to be more so than some of the others. They've got a split upper lip so if you crowd them into a multi-floor rose patch or something and leave them there long enough they'll defoliate that to a point they could probably kill it in two years. So they probably like autumn olive as well. So other things. I've heard people talk about ryegrass and horses with ryegrass staggers. I've never talked to a horse owner that had ryegrass to a greater degree so I don't know if that's really true. I've heard them talk about it over Europe. Indophyte infected tall fescue, we talked about that earlier. That's where we're at and we're in the heart of it in Illinois. So it's management. As Chris was talking and Tom Sachs was sharing some of his experience and the booklets I've read and other things, it's something to deal with. We have to pay attention to it. Sheep generally they like orchard grass and ryegrass is probably the least on their preference list. The Indophyte issues with tall fescue, you know it'll affect sheep and goats. Sheep they can have lower conception rates and you know they'll lose weight and things just like the beef cattle. Birchfoot trefoil, less pedisional, the only non-bloating legumes we've got out there so it's kind of good to have some of them depending on the site and what other soil types you're dealing with and things like that. If you use reeds, if you have a place that has reeds canary grass and if you're going to plant any reeds canary grass, we're not allowed to recommend it anymore because it's invasive but it's out here and there's some places that's about all will survive. I recognize that. They've got low alkaloid varieties and you might look at that if you're going to plant some of it. Rye grasses, the tetraploid varieties are what's a little more productive. And the more erect plants we have, they tend to be a little less persistent and some of that kind of goes with the jointed grasses like your Timothy and smooth brome. You've got to manage them a little better to keep them in the stand. Red clover has our best seedling vigor of most of the seeds we deal with, most legumes. So Ann Clark, she's from the University of Gulf, she says you need kind of a shotgun approach with a broader variety of species rather than just a single one. And I tend to kind of agree with that because if you got, and I don't mean you need to put a little bit of everything out there. You need to put enough seed for certain varieties in order to have enough for a stand but rather than just one or two species it's probably going to do you more good. In Europe they tend to blend earlier variety, some of the single species with the later varieties and whether it's ryegrass, orchard grass. Legumes are going to tend to be about the same maturity when they grow. New Zealand, Europe, I've been told that they add nitrogen, split apply even with legumes. They think that boosts it. We haven't really done that a lot here. Usually we figure if you got enough legumes it's going to help versus a lot of places we don't have many. So, and basically the longer you keep something growing and the longer those animals can be out here grazing the more economical it's going to be for your operation like Chris was saying. 60 to 70 percent of your annual cow cost is going to be in stored feeds. What to plant? Well depends on how you're going to manage it. You know if you got just a single pasture probably Kentucky bluegrass and fescue. Bluegrass will survive the close frequent grazing and survive as long as anything. Fescue is probably the next best thing close to that. If you're going to do managed grazing then we can look at a lot of other alternatives. And, but you need to look at the specific forages suited for the site as far as your soils you're working with, your capability of nutrition, and then like I said consider your grazing management. We talked about the vegetative states of things already. Chris typed something on this a while ago. You kind of look at a, a middle ground here between the vegetative stage and the flowering or reproductive stage. Your elongation here is where you want to be. That's where you got the most photosynthesis and highest energy. This is kind of some, along some of the similar lines what Chris was talking about. You know you want to cut this, you know here's going to be about your ground level so you need to leave about a three or four inch stubble height here on a lot of these plants. That way you're not, you're not reducing their photosynthesis ability. And again you're cutting this off down here that's at one or two inch level. It's going to take a lot longer for that to come back. And so this is just pretty much the same thing as what Chris was explaining earlier. So I don't spend much time here. If you all can see this, it may be a little dark back here. Your root growth mirrors the top growth and that was one of Chris's slides similarly too. So you know if you can keep it where it looks more like this over here you're alright. But we cut it a lot closer. If we cut it in here at this three to four inch or four to five inch stage in our cool season grasses and our legumes that's where we're going to really want to stay with some of this. We talked a little bit about different temperatures. Okay, our cool season grasses they're optimum growths are 60 to 80 degrees. Our legumes are going to be just a little warmer 70 to 90. And I got some growth charts here later we'll show some of that stuff. Our warm season grasses whether it's the annuals that Chris was talking about or some of our native perennials, Indian grass, switchgrass, big bluestem, Eastern gambagrass, they're showing up here in this 80 to 90 percent or 80 to 90 percent degree weather. Not percent weather and that's what they're because you're going to get once they start to grow you're going to get all their production here in the summer months where our cool season has got a different growth pattern. Ah, here we are. And right here is kind of if you have a spring calving cow she's going to calve in March and come over here like Travis was talking. That's going to be the blue line for what her nutritional needs are going to be. Okay, here's our cool season grass curve you can see this. And here's our summer slump right here in July and August. Here's our warm season grass curve this would be natives or the summers, the summer annuals. You know it's going to kick in here depending on which variety in late May, early June. Once they start to grow they're going to get you all their production until it cools off in the fall and then they're going to pretty much be done. But we give you a little bump here in the fall with the cool season grasses so that's going to help us on that front. Okay, the green line here is tall fescue. The solid red line is big bluestem and Indian grass. That works pretty well in this part of the state. You can see it's coming along in the summer down here. Eastern gamma grass and switchgrass, they come on earlier of the native warm season grasses. So they're going to kind of be a little tighter behind our cool season grass curve but they're still both going to fill this big summer gap we have right here in our cool season grasses. That's what we're looking to try to do is to fill these gaps here and there in the grazing season in order to limit our amount of time that we're going to have to be feeding hay. Somebody here earlier, I forget who it was, was talking about feeding hay a while ago and like well generally we're going to start feeding hay later in the summer. How many of you guys have to feed hay in the summer time? Any of you? How many of you have livestock? Congratulations if you're not feeding hay in the summer. I travel a fair amount and there's lots of hay to get put out late in the summer. So cool season grass here is our green. The solid line is red and white clover. So see it gives us a little more forage here in these summer months in the July-August period and annual lespedeza is the dotted line. Well see your annual lespedeza is an annual again. You plant it in the spring, it's got to produce, make seed and then shed seed in the fall. So it's going to kick right in here and get a lot of growth during that summer month. You're not probably going to get quite as much production off of lespedeza as maybe some of the others for the whole year but it's going to give you a lot there at one point in time. Lespedeza also generally will grow on some of these porous soil types. I know we used to have pastures and the main place we found lespedeza was on the hillsides where we couldn't get a lot of other things to grow because they were real tolerant of some poorer soils. So God made that for us to pour into the state I guess. Something was mentioned to talk about soil types. You know you got dry or grouty type soils. Some can be sandy, some can be shallow to bedrock, things like that. You know we're not all blessed as you get farther north in the state with those deeper soils. You got wet, poorly drained sites, some with higher clay content, high water table, flatter topography. It doesn't drain well. You get a combination of things. Down here we got that thing called a clay pan too depending on where you're at and where you're at in here. So all this makes a difference on what's going to happen. You're not going to grow much forage if that's staying in water a lot of the time. On wet sites you can kind of look we've got some of your white clovers either the dino or alcyc, orchard grass, smooth brome, perennial rye grass it tends to like the wetter sites a little better and more fertile soils. Naturally you got Kentucky bluegrass, fescue and then here's our eastern gamma grass and switchgrass. They grow pretty well on these wetter soils that are just a little wetter. On a drier site you know you're going to look at orchard grass, brome. You're going to have some of these grasses that tend to overlap as well but some of them do a little better. Here we got alfalfa. Alfalfa as I mentioned earlier doesn't like wet feet so we're going to need to be on a drier site. Red clover works well, lespedeza. And here's our big blue stem and our eastern gamma grass. Our native warm season grasses they're more deeply rooted so they're going to work with us in probably some broader ranges as well. I mentioned jointed grasses. Timothy and smooth brome are probably the two of the main ones. And some of our warm season, native warm season grasses are also in that category. And basically as that plant grows and elongates that growing point goes up that stem. We come along with the mower and cut that off at a couple inches like Chris was talking about then you're going to set that plant back and it's got to pull all those energy reserves out of the carbohydrates and out of its roots in order to regrow. So that's just that much harder on that plant. These are what we call jointed grasses or orchard grass and these are more like a clump grass. Why orchard grass, tall fescue, Kentucky bluegrass, and Printero ryegrass, they're going to be mowed a little shorter but yet we still need to leave enough leaf area on that. And I'm sorry I forgot I got some handouts back here if you guys want any. Ted, could you, maybe Travis could hand out some of them if you want to take notes. I'm sorry I forgot about that. We just a little ahead of schedule. This might not be real readable but it's in this chart here. It just talks about the sensitive to pH. Here's another factor we're looking at with going back to our soil testing into things. You know if you got good soil testing you're going to be able to help yourself a lot here on picking out what to forage. Naturally six and a half to seven to alfalfa. Here's barley which is a crop but can be grazed. Smooth brome. Sweet clover was talked about this morning. We don't use it just a lot in the grazing systems anymore. A few decades ago when I was growing up and around home why sweet clover used to be like a green manure crop. Back in those days lots of guys plowed. Well you'd plant it after a wheat crop in the fall and then you'd let that grow up about so tall and you'd plow it under. So we don't graze it a lot. It can be grazed. You just have to manage it. Six to six five. You know we've got a pretty lengthy list of things in here which are dino clovers, your red clover, a lot of the timothy wheat. He can be grazed written in wheat. 5.5 to 6 that catches a lot more than your alcite clover, birdsfoot trefoil, laspedeza, and red top, rye, sorghum, dangrass, fescue. Of course fescue grows about everywhere as everybody's probably aware of around here. This chart shows a little bit about seedling vigor, drought, wetness. This is just kind of a summary of some of the things we went over but it's a kind of handy chart because it repairs a lot of these things that we go along. If you're not aware of it, our cool season grasses are called C3 plants. They're in a carbon chain when you look at the chemical breakdown. I had chemistry too but I wasn't any better than the other guys who talked earlier so we won't dwell on that. But that's your cool season grasses. Our smooth brome, orchard grass, fescue, timothy's in this list, I forgot to add that. And our C4 plants for our native warm seasons are big bluestem, indian grass, switchgrass, and eastern gamma. And probably our annuals would be in that as well. You can kind of see this is a pasture. Got any idea what these little green spots are out here? Looks like it got measles. You're right. You're right. That's just a straight grass pasture. There aren't any legumes at all out there. And it's not showing up as dark as it could be. It kind of does back here. So that's wherever the cows was grazing and they left their little manure pile, that's where it's at. Good grazing and management will recycle 80% of the nutrients back to the soil consumed by the animals. But unfortunately we ain't got quite 80% of the coverage there we might have. So, but anyway. That's where the legume component comes in. Chris talked about fertility and there may be a few slides that we overlap but it's probably worth repeating. And basically, you know, as mentioned our legumes are able to produce nitrogen for the grasses through the photosynthesis and then their nodules. And so examples of these naturally are alfalfa red clover. Your other clovers, white and alcik, ladino and alcik. Red clover is what gets used a lot out there. I'm kind of a fan of red clover. White clovers will work well. Generally that's in more ladino varieties. And they tend to work well for horses. A lot of people say well they don't want to feed red clover to their horses. Make red clover hay for their horses or have it in their pastures. And there may be something, this fungal infection that they talk about. My oldest son worked with a guy, for a guy when he was out of high school for two or three years, had horses all his life. He's passed away now but he was probably in his 60s when he worked for him. And he's like well my horse has been dead 30 years ago if it hadn't ate red clover hay. He said the main problem is the seed in the clover head is bitter and that's primarily what makes them slobber a lot. Of course if you're going out here to ride your horse every night and fool with them, you don't want the horse slobbering all over you. But there are uses for some of these even if they don't work out kind of what we think. Dr. Rich Leap out of Michigan State University, some of his information here on legumes are going to help the foragers, grass legume mix more productive, fix more nitrogen, increases your feed value in there because they're higher in protein, makes it more drought tolerant, get a little more uniform production through the season and it also runs a little more deeply rooted than sometimes some of the grasses are. Again the nitrogen gets transferred from the roots to the nodule turnover, things like that. And then as those clover plants tend to die that just puts the rest of that tissue and the nutrients in that plant back into the soils and the grasses can help pick some of that up. So you know the nitrogen fixation will make a difference on the age of the stand as far as the age of the clover. And the other factor that is indicated also is the height of that clover plant is also an indication of how much nitrogen is going to fix in your soil. So if we got a lot of that little white Dutch clover, it's about four inches tall, you're not going to get too much nitrogen out of that. It's great forage if the cows or whatever can eat it, but it's not going to produce you much nitrogen. But if you've got a red clover plant that's up here, it's knee high, it's going to probably produce you quite a bit more. According to some of the studies from Kentucky and University of Missouri, you get anywhere from 100 to 180 or 200 pounds of nitrogen back out of that. And I'd save you quite a bunch of commercial fertilizer. Where are we at here? Inoculants. We don't talk about that a lot. Anytime I had Robert on a program, he usually mentioned that somewhere because he always talked about fertility. And legumes and some of these other plants as well as forbs need a certain type of rhizobium inoculant and it's more specific for those type of species than others. So if we can have that and make sure that's there, then when I was growing up, we always inoculated our soybeans when we planted them every year. You know, of course a lot of beans are treated now and all that. They come treated in a bag, but when we was planting beans, you'd save beans from one year to the next. They'd buy a package of inoculant and they'd inoculate them in a little flare box wagon and pour them in the planter and plant them. So times change, but some of the practices don't either. Basically you're just putting the bacteria contact next to the root of the sticking agent and but you need to make sure the inoculant bacteria is alive. There's a date on those bags. You need to make sure that's an active date that hasn't expired if you're going to use that too. If you can see this, it's two different colors. It's pretty good here. I'm not sure how well you can see it in the back. You can see how much paler it is on this side. These are legumes that were not inoculated. Here's the inoculated legumes. They haven't got the picture taken where you can kind of see the plant height, but it's going to make a major difference here. You can probably tell just from the color. There are different forms of nitrogen as you all know from fertilizers. Basically, if you're greater than 30% nitrogen in your grass legume component, we've always said, traditionally we, the industry always says, you probably don't really need much in the way of nitrogen fertilizer added. If you're going to add fertilizer, do it in split applications, about half what you're going to do in June or after the first cutting, and then come back in August or maybe the other half. That kind of gets all these forages started for stockpiling or regrowing in the fall. The conventional thinking is 30 to 80 pounds per application, and you're going to help the grass, stimulate grass growth more than you are the legumes. But if you've not got much legume out here, that's going to help you a lot. There are different forms, and you're probably more aware of them. Ammonium nitrate and ammonium sulfate we can still get. Ammonium nitrate you probably can't get much anymore. Once in a while you get out of Missouri, they started making bombs out of it, and that took it off the market for most farmers, even though that's the most stable thing we've got out here for nitrogen. Here's the recommended rates, and Kentucky bluegrass, 60 to 80 pounds. You know, if you're going to have split application, again, that's going to get you a lot more production. A year ago, I fertilized early in the spring, and then last year I thought, well, I'll just wait and make my first cutting on our hay operation. We'll cut our hay first, and then after we take the first cutting off, I'll put some nitrogen on. I'll figure this all out. Well, guess what? I had that spring flush come through, we baled hay, then I put my nitrogen on, and it didn't rain after that. It didn't get me too much money, or I didn't get much out of that dollar I spent for fertilizer on that situation. That's putting all your grasses. Fescue, kind of the same situation. Although, Dr. Craig Roberts, University of Missouri, has done a lot of research over there, and they came out a few years ago and said, you shouldn't probably apply more than 50 units of actual N per application if you're putting it on Kentucky 31 tall fescue. That's the endophyte variety of tall fescue. Because it can increase the endophyte level in the plant at that point. So if you get above 50 pounds on the old Kentucky 31, why, that can increase your endophyte level a little bit, and that's probably not where you want to go. You guys see this very well? Do you see this from the back cliff? Okay. This is, I did a forage clipping, I dried it all down, I calculated it all out. This is kind of looking at a stand that's 30 to 40% clovers and legumes with the grass. Okay? Just to give you an idea of what it's going to look like. It's going to look like it's probably more than that when you look at it, if you're standing here looking at the ground, because your clover plants are more dense at the top than they are at the bottom. They're going to have the single stem go down at the bottom, their leaves are predominately at the top. The grass plants are just the opposite. They're denser down at the base. Okay? Here's another, this is, this is 13% legumes. You can see there's a lot less legume in here, but you're only looking at like two or three plants is all that's in this. You can barely see my little clipping frame here, which isn't important. But that's what you clip, we clip out of. It's called a clipping frame and that size you use to calculate what dimensions you got and you weigh it all down. That just gives you some idea of what you're looking at when you're trying to work with that. Okay, so if we're going to add legumes, I didn't talk to anybody. I don't know what it costs for red clover seed now. I plugged in $3. Am I close? Any of the seed guys that's here? $3 a pound for red clover? Is it more than that? Maybe $4? What? Okay. Okay. Uh, but I did talk to FS about the nitrogen cost. And, uh, so if we blend six pounds of red clover, this would be pure live seed. And, uh, the nitrogen cost right now from FS locally where I'm at was $350 a ton for urea. So, if you put on 90 units, that's going to get you, uh, cost you $34.25. That's just for the fertilizer. I don't figure out how you're going to spread it. That's on top of that. So, and this study here was done back in 1978 and I adjusted to the cost factors for today. Zero nitrogen, you got 3,900 pounds of production dry matter per year. 90 pounds, we're right at double that for $34. Put 180, which is double that, you got 9,900 pounds. Then we come down here and add red clover to our tall fescue and put on six pounds to acre for $18. Of course, that might take into the second year to get that grown if there wasn't any there the first year. They got 1,100 pounds. So, you can kind of figure out the cost ratio benefit on that. So, you know, it's a pretty good investment to look to me like. A while ago I mentioned your legumes can produce up to 200 pounds of nitrogen. That's coming from University of Kentucky studies and University of Missouri. There is a lag time sometimes because you got to get those plants growing if they're in short supply and whatnot. And, uh, and nitrate fixation will be reduced or stopped if you put on nitrogen fertilizer in that situation. And in here it was saying, okay, 25% of the stand is not really significant. You're going to have to have at least 25% for the legume component to be significant in any kind of nitrogen fixation in your grasses. So, you know, just having a few plants out here isn't really going to help you very much. Deficiency, legume deficiencies, uh, there are some. They can be less hardy. There are some diseases that occur, whether it's clovers or alfalfa. Uh, they're less, especially red clovers, less perennial. It can cause, you know, be a little more incidence of erosion if you just got a straight legume stand. We mentioned bloat potential. Some fertility because it's going to take higher fertility and it does increase your management as well. Seed, different seeding mixtures. This is coming from the, this is our field office technical guide. Our practices, uh, well, used, now they've deprecated that instead of pasture and hayland, now it's forage and biomass. It's still 512. On well-drained soils, here's some mixtures that would work well. These are based on pure live seed. These are similar to what's coming out of the, the agronomy handbook. There's our reference to pure live seed per pound. Eight pounds of alfalfa, six brome, and some bluegrass. Alfalfa and red clover, kind of a mix. Some orchard grass and, uh, alfalfa orchard grass and, and, uh, bluegrass. And there's just a variety. This is just an example. And, uh, uh, okay. Come on here. There we go. There's just another mixture on this. This would be on for, for poorly drained soils. We're gonna look at bluegrass and timothy and brome. There's some orchard grass again. Uh, fescue would come in here as well on our poorly drained soils. It'll survive fairly well. Brome doesn't do quite as well on some of that. Uh, again, we kind of mentioned earlier, Kentucky bluegrass withstands close, frequent grazing. It'll stay in the stand a long time. It is lower yielding, lower drought potential. Orchard grass. It's fuzz forming. It does work well if you're in some shaded areas. Highly productive. Uh, a lot of the animals really prefer that. Got a soft leaf. And, uh, prinellar ryegrass is quick establishment. Shorter persistent. And it's not nearly as drought tolerant either as some or others. Smooth brome. It needs to be in a grazing rotation if it's gonna stay there. It can be very productive. Uh, it's also highly digestible. Probably as high if not higher than some of the other plants. Tall fescue is a very, very persistent forage. It works good in some areas where we kind of abuse it a little bit. You know, but it does have the endophyte issue in some varieties. We got the friendly endophytes out here. And I think all the companies have some of those. I'm not gonna mention any names. But if you look for them, they're on the market. If you're gonna plant a tall fescue, you're probably better off planting a friendly endophyte rather than endophyte free in my opinion because it'll probably stay with you longer unless you're really gonna manage it very well. Uh, Timothy. It's higher quality. Uh, it's later maturing of the cool season grasses where you make hay or you graze it. But again, you're gonna have to be, uh, be right on top of it with the grazing rotation or it's gonna get grazed out or hayed out very quickly if you don't manage it real well. Alfalfa. Uh, it's highly productive. Drought tolerant. Doesn't work well in poor soils as we talked. But it'll, it'll add a lot of production into your stand. And, uh, our hay operation last year, the alfalfa made twice the hay as anything else we had all year. But we didn't have very many acres of it so that cut down on that. But, uh, red clover, uh, generally it'll last a couple years. You'll have hard seed to carry over third year. There are some, uh, oh, the dairy research lab in Wisconsin. And I can't think of the forage professor's name. It's up there. He's, he's actually, I've been told he's the only, uh, forage professor in the United States working on red clover varieties. And they've got some varieties he's been working with the perfected where actually the last three years now. But still in three years you're going to have to reseed them. Fortunately, you can reseed red clover over red clover and not have any side effects. So, alcite clover, it shows up generally in these wet areas. But there is some photosensitivity issues there. So you have to watch that on horses and some other animals. The dyno, they've got the different varieties of that that withstands grazing a lot better. It'll last a lot longer and, uh, and it has poor drought tolerance and it does tolerate wet sites fairly well also. Uh, talk about what to seed and how much. Jim Geary, she talks about you need 70 to 90 seeds per square foot with our cool season grasses and legumes. A lot of companies are anywhere from 200 to 300 seeds per square foot, which seems like a little overkill. You only got 144 square inches and one square foot so you're getting the seed beyond even one per little square inch. And, uh, our native grasses, they're generally clump grasses. You're not going to need near as many seeds per square foot for them. And, uh, so. Okay. If you don't manage your pastures and you just have one pasture, then you'll probably be looking at Kentucky bluegrass. Perennial ryegrass, as long as it lasts, we get a dry year, it'll take it out. Tall fescue will last quite a while depending on what's happening there. And, uh, or some shorter variety orchard grass. Naturally, anytime I work with a producer, I'm encouraging them to try to get some kind of a grow up, like a rotation going. Because that rest that you allow those plants to have will keep that forage grow a lot longer. As Chris was talking earlier, there are no silver bullets. There's no one forage we can plant that's going to do everything. So you need to have a variety of things out here. Now, they all don't have to be in the same pasture. You're probably better off to have two or three grasses and a legume or two in one pasture. And if you're going to have something different, then have a different feces over here. So if you've got a native warm season pasture, and it probably wouldn't be too bad an idea to have a few acres of that. Maybe 15% of your pasture operation acreage should be in that. That way we get these dry, hot summer periods. That's going to be at the peak of its production when your cool season grasses are not producing real well. So, but, you know, you need to look at the forage. The best complement your present forages you've got. Fill gaps. That can be an annual or a perennial, either one. What meets your goals and what management level you want to put into it, you know. And how many producers here look at their forages as actually another crop? Hold your hands up. That's what I've been trying to tell folks for many years, and I've come to that a few years ago. If you're going to manage your forage like a crop, whether it's hay or pasture, you're going to realize more off of it. Granted, a lot of our forage acres are the poor acres on the farm. But if we put more management into it, we're going to get more management out of it. So that just what comes down to play. And then you've got to do what fits in your budget. And if you can stock it properly and just manage it more intensively, it'll work well. A little, just a final shot here on some soil test things. Your alfalfa is going to have to, for it to stay in the stand and be productive, you're going to have to have a pretty high level of management on it and fertility. Red clover is a lot less. White clover is more forgiving. Bird's foot trefoil is kind of the medium range. Any lespedeza, it'll get by, you know, with a lot less. Your cool season, warm season grasses, they can survive. You're just dealing with what production you're going to get on them right there. I apologize for this slide. I pulled this off another PowerPoint and it was the way it was. I couldn't change the font in here. That other sheet I showed you a while ago that talked about that Technote 22. That's what they call spray smother spray. And basically it's similar to what Chris was talking about. You're going to come into an old stand here and either start in the fall or in the spring and spray that. You start in the fall, you spray it something to kill out the old Kentucky 31 fescue. Come back in the spring if you escaped anything, hit it again, then plant a summer annual into it and either graze it or hay it off. You can come back in the fall and then hopefully there you can plant your newer variety of forages, whatever you want to replace that with, at that point and you're ready to go. Otherwise, you may have to frole over another year if you still got skips and things in here. But you're not losing your forage cycle in here because you're planting an annual as your cover crop. Some guys used to tear up alfalfa, well they still do, and plant a corn crop or some other crop after. It's that kind of same concept only with forages. They're just using some annual crop to either graze or make hay as we're eradicating what we don't want and then we can come back in. And usually they're going to look at no-tilling into what's there because any time you till the soil you're stirring up that seed bank. So in all our pastures and all our hay fields we've got what they call a latent seed bank. There's seeds laying here on the soil surface. Once you stir that up and you go away something's going to grow, just like Chris was saying. You know, Mother Nature and good Lord ain't going to let us have a bare spot very long. The question is are you going to grow what you want or what you don't want. So if we no-till when we come in here with some of these then that'll help out. Yeah Chris. One thing to remember when you're using this method is that in the spring you do not want that tall test of the seed. Right. You have to either clip it or spray it before it gets the seed. That seed will be viable in the fall. Right. Yeah. I should have went to this screen here. This is our tech note. You go ahead and hay it or graze it or something so it's in a fresh regrowth. Probably eight inches or ten inches tall. About right Chris. And then you come in and spray it and let that get burnt down and you come back and plant it. Here's your summer annual right in here. You hay it, graze it, whatever you want to do. You go back and spray it again. Hopefully the next time around you're killing out what's there along with any other skips or escapes from our Kentucky 31 tall fescue. Then we come back and no-till into it. So we're no-tilling into what's there so we're getting minimal soil disturbance and then we get stuff to going. Here's that cached cow that Brian had. I ain't found her yet either. Missouri shared these presentation with Brian and myself and that's where we found that cow. But they have been very forgiving on helping us find the herd. But something else come to mind. I just lost it. But anyway, yeah your fertility is an issue. We need to keep that up as well. But the trick is you try to no-till into this when we spray it and no-till it and it'll work fairly well. And oh I recall. There's information on the NRCS booth about the EQIP program, Environmental Quality Incentive. And there's a specific scenario they call it or cost share practice through EQIP to help offset the cost of doing this. So through the EQIP program there is financial assistance for that if you get picked up in the program. Yeah Robert? Probably. You'd know more about that than I would. Thank you. Yep. Yep. Yeah. So instead of hitting it right here, start over here like I mentioned earlier. Hit it once there. Then you can come back and if you haven't gotten any skips, maybe a quart in the spring might be a little bit more. Yeah. So instead of hitting it right here, start over here like I mentioned earlier. Hit it once there and then you can come back and if you haven't gotten any skips, maybe a quart in the spring might be a little bit more. But if not, you have to just do according to what your chemical rep tells you to do and then you're off and running. So anyway. Somebody Chris, somebody was talking about rest periods and actually we kind of stretch them out during the summer months here. Your grasses and your legumes are in red as we head. We're talking about the root system and above ground biomass. Alright, see this over here? That's Kentucky bluegrass. And I got to get where I close enough to read some of the rest of this, I'm sorry. Number three is Indian grass. This will be big blue stem. So you see how much more deeply these are. Oh, I got it. Oh, this is going to be about a eight foot mark right here. So big blue stems down here pretty close to 10 and Indian grass. It takes longer to get the warm season grasses established, but that's why they're going to grow so much better during that dry, hot summer period because their root systems are so much deeper. Okay, comparing that to alfalfa, dry land alfalfa. You know, we're looking here at, you know, here's irrigated, it's 10 foot deep. Dry land, nine foot deep. So either way, that's pretty deep root system for alfalfa. But that's another reason why our alfalfa is so much more productive through the year. It's got a much deeper root system. It's pulling those moisture back up where our grasses aren't, our cool season grasses aren't traditionally going to be, you get three foot, you're probably lucky to even get four foot depending on how you manage those. But they're going to have to be managed real well to get that deep. Otherwise they're going to be pretty, pretty shallow. Well, it's just talking about deeply rooted plants. I mean, you get improved production, better persistence, less bloat, fewer weeds, more better stand you've got as we've talked, less winter injury, more fiber in the diet, which helped with what Travis was mentioned. Just different tools to improve our pasture quality, get into grazing management, it's been talked about, I'm not going to dwell on it. Sometimes under some situations you can burn it, especially the warm season grass, takes the old dry material off from last year. That also gets away when you have a prairie burn in the spring, that'll kill out a lot of the little woody saplings and things that are coming. That keeps them out of the stand, autumn olive and some of these things we don't like. And mechanical harvester clipping has been talked about, fertilization, overseeding, interseeding, overseeding, other species that add in here. And generally total renovation, that's kind of the last resort. That's going to take you, you're going to be down in production and it's going to cost you a lot of money to do that there. Different seeding methods. This guy kind of likes to run this four wheeler round, so if you're going to do frost seeding, normally in Illinois that's going to be in the month of February. And just got a trick is to get him where you're going to drive close enough you don't have any skips here and there. A lot of people got John Deere drills. Depending on what you're going to seed, it's kind of good to have a grass seeding box up here. And I planted some alfalfa this fall and I didn't take the time. Naturally, everything kind of went wrong that day. So the time I got the drill and got it here where I get started, it was about dark on Saturday night. So I thought, well, I wouldn't take the time to calibrate the drill. I just looked at what was in the seed box. And so I just set the drill according to what was in the seed box and I had bought uncoated seed. You guys know what the difference is between coated and uncoated seed? When I'm talking about coated seed, you know what I'm talking about? I put a seed coating on it which is supposed to help it grow better. You know how much that reduces the seed count in the bag? In a 50 pound bag, 17 pounds of what's in that bag is the coating, okay? So instead of having 50 pounds of alfalfa seed, I'm only going to get about 33. So I thought, well, I'll just plant straight seed and I'll make this work, okay? I'm not smarter than average Joe. I'm just kind of tight. Well, I checked what the box said to set it for the rating you want to have. Well, actually I went farther than that. I talked to the guy that was, I rented the drill from the district and the guy said, well, if you want 20 pounds the acre, set it right here. I'm like, okay. I did that. So I throw it in and I started drilling. I went back there and I was about, not quite half done. I better check, see if I got a level of seed off. I went back there and it was empty. Well, I had a couple bags of coated seed that I had got by mistake and I thought, well, I'll just use this other. So I put them in and apparently the calibration that the guy told me to set was based on coated seed because it was fairly close there. So, and I took it, when I got done another guy was waiting to use it. So I dropped it off to him and I kind of shared my experiences with the drill setting with him. So I was only planting five acres and he had probably 30. And this was a young feller, probably 30 years old. And I said, well, here's what I got with coated seed. I said, you may want to try to figure out something if you're going to. So my 20 pounds to the acre on uncoated seed turned into 30. We ain't going to talk about the cost factor on that. And, I mean, this is true life experience, guys. And so when he printed the drill and brought it back, I said something to the guy that was managing. He goes, well, they said they planted 20 pounds to the acre, but I was really surprised. He said the seeding set was way down here. Well, I haven't talked to the guy since then. So undoubtedly he listened to me. I hope he planted what he wanted or got the seeding rate he wanted. But undoubtedly he did because they just want to plant 20 pounds to the acre. So, but the moral of the story is you better check the seeding rates on all these different things because coated seed and uncoated seed and you change drills. And I'm not faulting the John Deere drill in any way. If I'd have been paying attention and I could have done what I should have done, it wouldn't have been a problem. Roger, you've got a YouTube video on calibrating a grain drill. It's called to be recording on our website. It uses a little bit different approach than the traditional seed. You've got a table and in that table you pick the row spacing and how much coming down the seed you want to put out. And it tells you how much seed you have to expect. So it's a no math method. Really simple. And I'd encourage you to watch that. Yeah, that'd be better. And calibrating the drill. Yeah. Because of that reason. Yeah. Well, that's why I wanted to share my experience with this because, thank goodness I was only planting five acres. I've been planting 50. Well, I'd, you generally figure out what to do like anything else when you're done. You know? And, but anyway. Here's another brand of drills. They do these. These are used a lot on no-till situations and grass seedings and things. And for prairie grasses, they'll have these agitators in them. And that makes a big difference because your prairie grass, native warm season grass seeds, are a lot fluffier and all that. Great Plains also makes drills that's, that's got three boxes like this one on it as well. So there's several different companies that's got them. I just happened to be at an office that had one of these. That's why I brought it in there. We haven't talked much about drought today. And I wanted to throw in one slide because it got pretty dry last summer where I was at. So, you know, you're looking at, you know, drought provide supplement feed when your forages. Basically you get grazed down to that three to four inch level. And Chris said four to five, which would probably be better because you're leaving a little more leaf area here to make for that plant to sustain itself with. Start creep feeding your nursing calves. Early wean the calves. Pull some of them off of them. That cow's nutrition level is going to drop a whole, needs is going to drop a whole lot more when you take the calves off of her. Rotational graze will help a lot. You know, graze some of your hay fields. And last summer I had some hay, one hay field we, we didn't even bother to rake. Well, actually we didn't even bother to mow because as my granddad used to say, well, if we mowed it, we'd have to have the rabbits gather it because there's enough there to rake up. So, you know, if you got a fence around some of these, you can graze some of these hay fields and still get something off of it. But yet it ain't really going to be worth your time to mow it, rake it, and bale it for what you're going to get off it. Separate your herd by age, body condition score. You know, if it gets bad enough, you may have to dry lot some of your cows for a while until this stuff starts growing again. So, you know, the damage you do to your pastures here when it's dry in the summer and you overgraze it, that may affect it for the next year all the way through. You never know. Move stalker calves into lots and to work and kind of the end of it, you may have to look at reducing some of your numbers and things like that. Just a summary on pastures in general. They're dynamic systems. We keep them vegetative. That's been hammered home already. Warm season grasses generally don't need quite as much fertilizer or lime. They will respond well to nitrogen, but they won't need as much phosphorus and potash traditionally, although it won't hurt to add it and keep them in there. Stockpile forage is the cheapest and best for winter feed. Legumes add nutrition quality as well as, you know, help you with the fertility. And also they add quite a bit in fertility costs. So, some of my contributors and different sources here. There's the required statements on anything we do at NRCS. And I guess that's where we go from here. If you have any questions, I'll try to take them. Otherwise, it'll be wrapped up, I think. You live in our general area. Yeah, I live in Greenville on I-70 right up here. Right. Obviously, there's a very few locations. In the spring of the year, I probably would say a few weeks. And it says that we had like three weeks to go. I know you've got to extend the rotation period during the summer months. Mm-hmm. So, it's getting dry under the fall. Mm-hmm. What do you recommend, say, like you do to all this? Well, generally. On rotation. Well, when I work with a producer, generally I recommend starting out. If you've got one or two pastures, I would say you need to start out with five pastures. A very sharp guy pointed this out to me 20 years ago. And he's sitting on that back row right there with a blue cap on, Tom Sachs. And, uh… He's the top father of his cattle. Well, he knows his cattle. Yeah. And he knows a lot about grazing fescue, too, because that's what he's got on his farm. Right. But the issue is, if you've got one or two pastures, and I come in and tell you, you need 12 or 15 or 20 pastures, you're not really going to be, you know, if you, whether you farm or you've got an off-farm job, that's a lot of, a lot of, that's a big leap for you to take right up front. You divide that into five pastures, you can rotate the cows once a week. That's going to give you right at 28 days rest from pasture one to when you come back to pasture one on the other end. Right. And you're going to see a pretty good benefit from that. Now, if you can get the water placed here and there where, and Chris had a shot in there, about water points where they divide things, if you get some water points that'll work on five pastures, and you get comfortable with that, and you kind of see, okay, here's, here's how much more forage production, how much more dynamic my forage system is going to be, because it's got a rest period. The more rest that forage gets, the more it's going to grow. But you will have to keep it vegetative for that to do that. Okay. But you get into five pastures and you get your water points placed out here, you'll figure out pretty quick how you can probably divide that into ten if you want to rotate every three or four days instead of once a week if you have time. And several years ago, I can't tell you how many, University of Kentucky did an economics study, and they said for a cow-calf operator, if you have about twelve pastures, that's probably economically where you're going to get the most return versus what you're going to spend to go much beyond that. Now, if you're a stocker operator, you probably ought to, you'll probably want to rotate your animals maybe every couple days, because you want to keep that nutrition plane up here about so high as the amount of calves move through, because you're trying to get that two pound a day gain or more on them. The old cows are going to be able to fluctuate with that, and that's going to affect them that much. But I'd say start out with five pastures, and wherever you're at, you need to have more than one pasture. There you go. Yep. Everywhere in southern Illinois, the old Kentucky 31 tall fescue is a big part of it. Now, fescue is predominant pretty much clear up into Bloomington, and some of the folks tell me, well, it's not as predominant up in the Wisconsin border. We do a pasture land natural resource inventory thing that I've helped with up there part of the time. And it's not as prevalent when you get on that north corridor, Lyric corridor row of counties in Wisconsin, it is down here. But tall fescue is still there. Now, they've got more brome grass. You know, you look in the road ditch, you're going to know what's going on. You know, used to be we got Springfield north, you'd have mostly smooth brome in your road ditches, and it's still there, but you're starting to see more fescue. It's kind of creeping its way north. But, uh, yeah. I've been in the woods, and I've been in the woods, and I've been in the woods and all that. But the horses I could put them, sprays and sprays, and I mean, I want to put some kind of grass, a lot of sunshine down, open the floor. What would be the best thing to start grass? I was doing great. I don't want some to get down real low, I don't want to start taking that. I don't want to show the soil. What can I do to focus on grass in there like a good thing? How are you going to plant it? Frost seed it? Frost seed it? Well, I would say probably go in with a friendly endophyte fescue and orchard grass, and add some clovers into it. And then probably the best time to, well, it may take a couple different temps because of the weather, because you can't do it, you can't no-till it, so you're just at the mercy of freezing and thawing. Our month of February is best for frost seeding for like the legumes. I've heard some guys talk about waiting to get a little later in the spring for some of the grasses, so still freezing a little at night, you can try it right away. Have you already seeded anything yet at all? No, I wouldn't do anything with the endophyte fescue here. I would say try to put some orchard grass and some friendly endophyte fescue, although that's fairly expensive and it's pretty expensive seed to scatter on top right now. You could add some timothy in it, that might work fairly well. It's small, round seed. You wouldn't probably be able to blend all that. You may have to, I don't know, well, you got a four-wheeler or something else to use rather than walking up a hand. I don't know how many acres you're doing here, but, uh, yeah, you know, you just, and bouncing over a few stumps with the four-wheeler is just going to scatter the seed a little more probably. But I would probably look at, in your environment, probably a fescue and orchard grass and some timothy and then add some kind of, some kind of clover legume, whether ladino or red clover. Yeah. You might want to add some lespedeza in there as well because it's probably going to be a lower pH in that timbered area. Because generally we tend to have more acid soils down here and the leaves that's falling off of that and everything's going to make that soil a little more acidy. So, add some kind of clover with it and then probably add, uh, add a little lespedeza in it. It might take quicker than the clover. And if you let that lespedeza go to seed, it'll come back next year. But it's got to make seed to do that. And that's probably what I'd shoot for in your situation. My boy's got to see those long run down, that he's got to use both calves and all that. I just don't let them run in there. That's why I've had it. You probably have to have to, if you're a buddy of the crowd, that's not going to get good. That'd be a good idea. That'd be a good idea. Otherwise, there's a lot of them coming up. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. And then the fertility, don't forget about the fertility, because that's why it's positive. It's coming out of timber, and a lot of times it's too low and you want to get soiled. There. Yeah, that's going to be a challenge. Yeah, you might want to just pull soil samples, because like Robert's saying, if your pH is that low, you might just not even want to put any, you might use some ladino clover, it might be tolerant. That and lespedeza, but I'd go stronger on the lespedeza than on the other, because like he said, you know, and if you get, just spread some lime on top, even though you're not going to till it. I wouldn't put more than two ton of lime per acre on in most situations, even if you have the opportunity to till it a little bit, because the soil's only going to break down so much of that so fast, according to the microbes and what's going, you know, the organic matter in the soil, like Chris had that one slide, the fungi and everything. They can only process so much so fast. So, you know, probably two ton of lime would be as much you'd put on. In that case, you might only put one ton on. I don't know. Well, I understand what you're saying. I mean, yeah. You might be able to dip, if your patient is good as an operator, you might be able to use like a special lime and get a dip. If you got, well, that could work. I wouldn't put more than two ton of lime on because it's not, it's going to take a certain amount of time, even if you can light disk what you can get to. They got pelleted lime fertilizer, but that's pretty expensive, so you wouldn't put more than a hundred or two pounds of that on. If you can get the regular lime on, that'd probably be cheaper and just give it more time. And like Robert said, you know, it's been timber a long time, your fertility level's going to be pretty low. Your grasses are going to be more tolerant than your legumes, but if you use some lespedes in it, like I said, that'll be more tolerant of lower pH. And I think Ladino clover is more tolerant of lower pH than the other varieties, so. What's that? They probably won't eat it if they don't like it, unless you're starving them to it. Unless you've got a pretty good fence, you ain't going to starve a goat to anything. They're going to eat all them saplings that Chris was telling you about first, and they're top feeders like Dean was saying a while ago, so they're going to eat grasses or anything on top, so anyway. Any other questions? Thank you. Thank you for coming. Yeah. . . all around, I mean, I'm talking about economical. I mean, it depends on the study of what's the best stock you've got. Depends on what you're needing. Yeah, I know you're going to tell me what kind of I would say if you haven't put much fertilizer on, you probably better put some potash on first. Robert, you probably could answer that better than I could. Right.