Agritourism Activities
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sJNiScEWmlY
Education
 Well, in recent years, numerous states have enacted statutes designed to provide an incentive for farmers and ranchers to create agritourism activities on their land. Now, those activities can generate additional income, but what about the liability issues? Joining us to find out more for today's Rural Money segment is Roger McOwen with the Washburn University School of Law. Thanks for joining us, Roger. And let's start with the incentive to create and conduct agritourism activities on your operation. Well, good morning, Christina. Good to be with you. And really, there are a couple of incentives that are associated with agritourism activities in states, and one is primarily a financial incentive. Many of the state statutes do provide incentives through ag real property tax classification for the property involved, which would be lower than taxation for commercial properties or residential properties. Also, tax credits, cost sharing, assistance with promoting the activities. Those are all the types of financial incentives that are out there. And then, of course, the big one is the liability protection that the statutes offer. So if you open up your land for an agritourism activity, the standard of care that you have toward those entrants is lower than what it otherwise would be. Okay. So to get the protection of the statute, the activity must be an agricultural activity. Can you break down how that's defined? That's the key to this. You do have to be engaged in an agricultural activity. So that raises the question as to whether if I create a corn maze or I offer hay rides or even hunting and fishing activities, do those qualify as activities as defined by the particular state statute? And most state statutes will say that the activities have to be agricultural in nature. So the specific language of that state statute is going to be absolutely critical to define what that means. Huh. Okay. Let's talk about some of the implications of failing to conform to the statutory requirements. Well, of course, if you don't meet the statutory requirements, then you may lose your ag tax classification. So you'll have higher property tax. You may lose the liability protection of the statute. So if someone is injured while engaging the activity, you might have some liability exposure there. And, of course, you can't get the associated financial incentives and tax credits and the like. Okay. Well, you know what, you always do a great job of giving us examples to kind of help us wrap our brain around this a little bit better. Do you have any of those for us? Well, sure do. There was a recent case out of North Carolina where a property owner that operated a sport hunting business on their acreage then converted that into shooting ranges and 3D archery courses and clay targets and pistol pits. And the question was, when there was a complaint that was filed by a neighbor over the zoning classification of that property, the neighbor was claiming, well, that's not really ag that's going on there. They probably shouldn't benefit from that lower property tax classification. And the court said, you know, that's right. As long as you're raising animals, domestically raised animals for controlled hunting, you can have a hunting-type activity, and that counted as ag. But that was farming and ranching. But the legislature in North Carolina didn't cover these particular activities. So shooting ranges and other hunting sports that didn't include harvesting of animals didn't fit within the statute. Now, that may not be the result of the legislature intended, but that's how the court construed it. And that's going to be important in all these types of cases. Absolutely. Okay, you can visit washburnlaw.edu slash waltr for more information on that case. Roger McGowan with the Washburn University School of Law. Thank you so much for joining us today.