Unknown Title
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sKN7ZB02G9E
Unknown Category
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Yes. A little bit of stardew. Today. Today. You know. Oh, AK. It's working. Ah. Bob. My Bob. My Bob the farmer. Woo. Just wanted a calm stream. You know. Just a calm stream. Just farming. All that stuff. Just farm. Just farm. Oh. Yeah. Okay. Now for the day. Okay. Now for the day. Ah. No. My mayonnaise. Okay. Put that there. Milk. There it is. There it is. I put that in. My mayonnaise. All right. What's this? The banner. Oh. I can put it inside my room. Oh. I forgot about this. Ah. Nice. Wait. Wait. Wait. Wait. Wait. Wait. Wait. Wait. Damn. Wait. Right there. In the middle. On the middle. All right. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. It will get there. It will get there eventually. All right. It's. Wait. Wait. Wait. Wait. Wait. Wait. Wait. Um. Winter? No. It's autumn. It's autumn. It's obvious. It's autumn. Oh. Figgins. Thank you. Thank you. I'll need to put more hay. Oh. Oh. Shit. Oh. Shit. My plants. Oh. No. That's what I noticed. My plants. No. My plants. Well. Time to regrow. I guess. Damn. That is sad. Okay. Um. Those eggs. In there. And. Do I have. Hay. Rombok. Hay. Hay. Hay. Na na na na. Na na na na. What are you? Chicken. No. Go on my. The original. The original.小 their sausages justlus excuse you who are you?黒 discovery nwhy'd you pretend ok why'd people press some ansch ile I wouldn't have this remember how'd you miss shoh this song or pgm that is why do i have a flower okay got money i have to plant things all right let's just order these then we go see what's up within the autumn uh-huh all right oh wait feed the dog feed the dog or water the dog oh sounds sounds cold out there it sounds cold i am here oh look at that damn what was that moral moral all right let us sell let us sell maybe okay um good all right look look look look anything there oh wait wait wait i can get mushrooms what's the point oh moss okay that's one okay why is this here i got this okay never mind let us just go get some seeds for this autumn day get money get money out of the day it was summer before but keep the art of fishing alive okay one hundred four hundred two any fisherman who catches two catfish good luck willie where do i catch a catfish though hmm hello hello hello let's see panties in the fall take five days to mature and continues to produce after first service oh it's nice it's nice it's nice bok choy four days mature hmm yeah like we got yeah okay let's go with yeah no no no no bok choy this is a good investment and a plan that's good 2020 let's go let us go i don't know what the plan is for today i don't know what am i doing uh i guess explore the mines maybe i don't know there's so many things to do and stardew oh oh who's dad there oh ak okay Let's get scared by the dog Unexpectedly unexpectedly Like I like it It's coming I am Beyond be gone Monk mo Damn 20 You Put a pudding Woo Alright that's Put a mount put a mount Don't water these bad boys Ah Pretty common Quiet Quiet Calm before the storm you know I wanna do some Scary stuff for tomorrow I don't know which one though Maybe Madness Wait was it madness? Amnesia madness or Oh wait rebirth It was rebirth It was rebirth The name was rebirth So I'm gonna play rebirth Tomorrow See what's up Okay what am I doing now? Oh mayonnaise Okay thank you Maynays Egg Egg Egg Okay Um Yep Oh E Oh Damn Um J No No Why What What Okay Um J No No Why What Okay Um O E L M Okay J H Bring To me choose A melon I Couldn't I couldn't Alright Pam is thirsty Bring Pam Hey Yay I see you I see you I see you right Jenny Gina Gina I saw you As I left Yes Oh wait Tuesday Yeah Tuesday On Tuesday And thank you And thank you Thank you Thank you And thank you Thank you Thank you Okay Okay Okay Okay Okay What am I doing What am I doing Ouch Oh yeah Might as well sell the mayonnaise I got nutty I got no use for it At the moment Oh what the hell is that? Oh Somerset Got those Eventually Cooking Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh All that Sell that Damn Hm Where's my music huh? Where's my music? Where's my music? Where's my music? Well good to know The good that you are using your Switch Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh There's Oh It's farmer hue of Alright, um, got nothing to do. I got no time for the mines. Because I don't have my sword. Well, might as well explore some. What's up? I am smitten. I am smitten with... I forgot her name. Um... What's her name? Mara. Maru, I mean Maru. What if? She likes plants. I think so. I forgot what she likes. Um... Wait, let me see. What does she like? She likes plants. And... I don't know. After that. Let us see. Let us see. Uh... Are you in here? I don't see her. Alright. Also, which one is better to use as a viewer? Does anyone know? YouTube or Twitch? Whichever, I would say. Whichever. is this? It's up to you. If you want to use Twitch or YouTube. Ah... Push Maru. I wanted to give you this plan. This... Whatever. What is this? Sweet Pea. Alright. Let's go. Maru, Maru. Come to me. Or find you. I don't know. Oh. Ooh. Okay. Blackberry. Hmm. It's getting dark. It's getting dark. You can't close it? Oh. Maru loves robots and stuff. But I know she has batteries. Ah, yes. I just remembered it. Thank you for reminding me. Rem... Reminding me. He loves to craft things. I should... Oh, wait. Can I go? Can I go in? Please. Send me in. Send me in. Maru's not here. What's... Where the... Oh, wait! To the tavern! Pup. I mean, pup. To the pup. Poop. There. The pup. I think. I... I... I... I... I suspect. Oh! There she is! Okay. Um. Tap. Poop. Gift. This is a super gift. Thank you. Pot. Have you explored the mines much? I heard you can find some useful material. Okay. Great talking. Great talking. Great talking. Did that help? Did that help? Did that help? Did that definitely help? Now I have to wait for a whole week. Until I can gift her a gift. Why is it quiet? Why is it quiet? Why is it quiet? Why is it quiet? Hmm. Why is it quiet? Why is it quiet? Hmm. What do I do? After this game has ended, just water the plants and go to the mines? I guess so. I guess so. I guess... Oh wait wait. The door. The door. Close the door. See what's up. Oh. Oh. Who are you? Chicken. Chicken. Like... Where's the other chicken? Oh no no no no no no no. Where are you? No. Are you... Are they sleeping? On top of the charters? Where's my chicken? Where's my other chicken? Fish chicken. Fish. Fish chicken. Fish. Fish chicken. Fishnuck. Fishnuck. Oh no. Can they die? Oh. Oh. Oh. What the hell? Fishnuck. What are you doing? Damn. You scared me there. Hey Nace. Oh. I should eat that. Eat that. Go to the mines. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Yeah. Yeah. I think which debris wood sips teleport? Did they teleport? We either know. They wanna, haul. This has been saved. Two more days. Oh. Oh mayonnaise? I had a lot of mayonnaise. Sell some. Oh, need that. Where's that blueberry? blackberry once i'm done here then go away the sword i've got the sword um don't need that don't need that and that that okay good water this place up water this place up oh yeah they're sprouting they are browning poop poop we should get spring spring clear there's sprinklers yes sprinklers and plant them down that's why i don't have to do this every day if i can wait can i check sprinklers can i make sprinklers like i can call the spring clear sprinkler aim bar and one bar okay neat all right uh dog i forgot your name what's your what i forgot this name was it rob i think it was rob i called him rob maybe that's a maybe that's a meme where are you rob if i named you rob oh oh run run run all right that is wrong all right save the main a's for later um sword that i need to find iron oh what the hell oh all right hello there bob you showed up at the big time okay okay and a bulletin board it's our new special orders board all right robin and i built it from scratch of course of course uh lewis all you did was hold the nails what the hell was that uh-huh ignore what was that sound lewis the mayor okay we don't question it i guess now let me explain or explain away you see with core farm back in business the local economy has really been picking up as a result some of the local townsfolk have been asking me for a way to source local ingredients for their business or personal projects so rob and i coming up with the idea of a new special orders board where people can post bigger jobs than they would make sense for the old billboard outside peers all right all right yeah for example i plan on requesting some hardwood for a bed i want to make a bed for a bed for a bed for a bed for a bed for a bed i want to put you on the spot but if you want to help me out you can just accept a job from this board all right who knows maybe if i if the bed turns out well i'll start selling them in my shop can i get a discount since i'll be making or cutting the tree please uh i don't know we'll see that sounds bad what's this all right i thought saw wouldn't expect anything less from you bob you expect too much so can we say that you're on board great joke great joke so you walk back and i won't question it i won't question it okay all right i'm looking for someone to bring me 10 calls to aid in the understanding of local blend true i can get some okay let me look at this board wait where's the board oh there's the board scozy scozy hmm robin's research rush i'm putting on a little promotion just for fun if you anyone can collect one that one thousand pieces of wood in a week they'll earn a reward and you can keep the wood i can do that can't take that i require assistance in tracking down the rare and dangerous first medic line well there's no point there's always going to the mines i wish i can fast travel wait let me talk whoa wait what reach a five heart friend level with someone oh bob i just love how the trees look right now i know you like them too all right all right i got five ain't that nice wait let me see oh my oh my one two three three more hearts to go until east hmm we're almost there we're almost there hmm okay i am ready i am ready to brave the mine shaft mine shaft you know what for tomorrow i i can't wait i can't wait to play more horror more horror tomorrow and i'll scream like hell please don't can i eat that no where are we going well then i want to reach level 10 at least level 10. it's a rock it's not a rock here no here maybe i don't know find the way down wait um this cannot guess not this this rock right here never mind go go die what was that oh i carried it or funded all right the weird formation of rocks right here ahara are you can i give that to maru maybe oh music we got music in the mines love it oh crystal oh go go come on come on come on come on quit um do i grab work nice uh oh yeah oh what's that piglet a diglet that's a diglet whoa i see i see where's my m coal no not coal i yes it was coal um i have a lot of rocks oh there there there there there yes yes this is what i want make my sprinklers i think i can reach it i think i can reach it love 10. every level every five down reaching down there's an elevator right i would assume i hope so no hey oh damn he dropped it okay how much okay time to eat my mayonnaise straight straight mayonnaise all right love it i love it what was that down we go diglet diglet no diglet all right there there there here all right nice how much more do i have thank you there oh there what nice okay um try over here i need a lot of more to upgrade my um there so lucky yes so lucky okay can can ru can ru maybe can ru i'm sorry i don't know how to say oh hello crap bye bye oh what do you mean so lucky what did i do i am confusion i am confusion thank you go go go no no no no no no no no oh no i watered it oh okay stressful why is this stressful where's the shaft give me the shaft that sounds bad okay good good good good give me shaft can i distinct stingers a little bit i think i don't think so then it has to be in this room assuming i assume lol uh yes left left okay now i'm going around i guess just to find that hole reached in i wanted to but i won't be able to where's the damn shaft there it is what the hell what's that why why is the torch there okay um monster monster kill the monster and eat it thank you um tap okay never mind i cannot oh oh before i go give me coal not coal not coal um whatever this is planet no not planet ah copper yes copper let's go down maybe there's an elevator one more level please please oh oh don't don't don't don't all right yep have a good day yeah tomorrow if you can if you come by yeah damn damn damn damn damn please please please where's my hole oh please not not yeah not now give me hole give me the hole please please oh please show me the hole oh two more left oh wait five uh four four four four four four no no no no no please please please no no no no no no no no no no no go away go away go away go away leave the mine i almost did it though i almost did it uh already night uh great i'm a slow man should bring more food next time that's the point that more mayonnaise two more mayonnaise yes i should bring two more mayonnaise we get straight that's bad just straight up drink mayonnaise straight up ah can i reach it and the day ends at 11 right i think so well i managed to do a lot of things in the mine so might as well cut a tree down while i'm at one thousand trees uh i wish there was food along the way okay what's the way here like a fruit a common fruit on spring not spring um autumn oh no it's gonna pass run boy run yep i want cold okay okay who is that come on come on one more's there move it move it almost there be calm just be calm please don't let it be tall uh oh oh hello elasia i'm doing good how are you now we sleep wait i know i know please reach the bed before one or okay good good good aha sleep oh whew damn i guess it's the rest day wait let me take wait oh damn the bait back what what oh no oh um i don't know what that emo is wait i can't press it all right i don't know what that is but thank you oh pretty much damn full i'm pretty much damn full in here a while it's been a while i don't know it's been a while since i streamed oh look like thunderwood i'm pretty much get the water that i need oh i need bar i can make the sprinkler mud no i don't want to i don't want to oh great yes great it is great oh oh sorry i had to do something two memento oh it's good it's good oh damn i should do that on board list wait wait wait options can i put it on board list that's nice yes it is nice wait um um hell what oh there it is face cam why would i do that i like to be faceless what's the point of having the face i don't want i don't want to see you throw my face my face is my face i'll keep it like that for how much for however long i can do or something like that oh here i am faceless with no maybe i don't know ah youtuber model no i don't need one i'm fine with that i am content i sure you do you sure you sure you do i i guess i am happy for you that you love youtuber vtubers i will i would like to be at least i don't know i forgot i wanted to say um there there oh that that's good that's good for you that's a nice provision hey okay um oh yeah the water the water good um i think i'm good lazy please yeah you are yeah i'm good yeah water water water which game do i play most i would say horror horror stuff ah oh damn that is what's the main point that i play mostly that and another like this look stardew stardew as you can see i can play this just be calm okay um what am i doing now yes that's really nice really nice hi there hey there i had some extra wood lying around i thought maybe you could use it take care robin oh helping me all right minecraft that's nice nice what have you been doing on minecraft any gonna challenge or just making stuff dear bob i would like to give my cows a special treat they're such good girls in hungry too could you bring me a bunch of um uh uh amaran amaran they love the stuff they hear that was a mammoth oh nice survival sounds how long how long is that world that you have i want to kill ender dragon oh an ender dragon it's been a while since i played that for the marine crew wait okay quit thank you i hope i have a castle in my room nice nice wait i got it i'm getting called wait be right back in youtube if you or am a glue so saying and yeah well i a Harmon with that there's a here the x what the and a and la h Thank you. Thank you. Hello, hello. Oh, wrong one. It's too simple. BRB? BRB? What am I doing? What am I doing? What was I doing? Wait. Yes, cut wood. Energy. Yes. Eat some mayonnaise. Alright. Okay. I love it. Sounds bad, but love it. Straight up mayonnaise. Uh, okay. Of course, of course. Space is nice. But scary. Space and all that. Now it's a challenge. The one... Get 1,000 trees and pigs or whatever they are. And a... Okay. Okay. Cut. Whoa, whoa, whoa. Okay. What time is that? Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Ah. Simple. Humming. Lovely. grab there a few more days I think a few more I need two more days to cut trees get all the trees that I need give it to Robin damn grab grab there you go yes 1.6 what's that explain explain explain what that is so I will know counter counter counter counter strike what's what's with the 1.6 though isn't it two counter strike or counter stick stick is it counter strike are you talking about counter strike the old version of this game I never heard of this I only know counter strike counter strike two that's the only games I know of that are called like that counter strike I don't know I don't know but it's famous more than new version I don't know honestly I don't know honestly I am stumped what it is my instagram why so why so oh okay wait who's open it but why but why have my instagram I don't even have it I didn't even make it yet or I don't even touch it should I say should I say oh one no more no more no more I do why do you want it if you don't mind me asking I was the light oh yeah Robin's resource what please please please please please please the progress part like that I am out of energy I am out of energy let us eat let us eat a mayonnaise eat the mayonnaise the mayonnaise no the way the mayonnaise eat the mayonnaise the mayonnaise no the mayonnaise no eat the mayonnaise and eat one mayonnaise for energy that's enough that's enough I just want it casually I don't even know you you just came in I can't use it uh no no no no no no I know what needs to be done so fine I I can just do things on my own but thank you for the for you wanting to help what do i mean what do i mean i just go with the flow you know if i want to do the things more effectively i can push it up you know what do you mean what do you think about me what do you mean just i just met you today or just followed today you 15 minutes ago who i who who are you i don't know you're you seem i don't know i don't know i don't know what to say i don't know i don't know yes yes you are you're a graphic designer with her it's going to be clear and sunny all day all right but the coal monday um i called autumn autumn yes autumn let's see now see all right okay yeah I got another G2 I was supposed to talk her yeah thank you get away then we can sleep now right yes progress testing safe water to plants get more trees that is loud just a few more days just a few more days for these Adamomies? oh bok choy it was the name of bok choy mm-hmm mm-hmm do do do do hmm nice and it's not anymore alright hello Ron oh wrong one here I come chickens open that go up see Ron time to cut chicken I'm sorry little tree goodbye oh crap oh I can cut this hmm I'm sorry little tree goodbye oh crap oh I can cut this hmm hmm hmm hmm hmm look at the other ones on the grow as I cut that oh oh hardwood hmm see I should be talking but it's very common today for today just talk occasionally my discord how about have my ex or twitter you can search out my name and find me there if you want to talk you can search me there and we can talk there yeah yeah easy i forgot wait what's my ex that's a check um one eight and there you are well thank you for the phone i guess there we are and there we are wait is my ah never mind connected come on connected that's a good amount oh yeah the chicken eggs crap crap crap thank you thank you and off we go down we go up right take more eggs take more those i have a lot of eggs to be made into mayonnaise build the mayonnaise okay good um i make it again maybe maybe maybe don't earth crystal i got two crystals but no copper okay i think i need a bigger chest now that's a thousand um robin and i got five thousand all right um meaning give meaning why have hardwood in here put that there after the stream i will i will let me do my not a job screaming stuff for now yep yep yep yep wait oh yeah oh no your creativity um you can just shoot a message on see what's up rob not rob wrong oh she's in the clinic oh she's in the clinic let me see maru here i come uh oh wait whoa whoa whoa what's this what's this hazelnut i'll be hearing it well you need to put an overlay i don't need an overlay i am fine as i am even without the face wait wait wait wait i do have this um hello that's the only thing i have a little wave of whatever that is what's this what's this what's this feast of fresh cash sure oh yeah maru maru maru it's locked damn all right i wanted to get maru where did you go where did you go sell for sale sell for sale sure sure sure i will text you back okay um we need more yeah yeah whatever that emo is emote huh nice 30 get that ready for tomorrow in this game tomorrow in this game an offer what is this offer you speak of for συ more great ah yes yes of course of course what am I supposed to do? I was supposed to do something something something well here at the east Ardu Valley Fair Elliot's birthday hmm quiet quiet at least but why but why huh? but why? hmm hmm hmm hmm hmm hmm hmm at least I know what you're trying to do you know it's not it's not good it's not good what you're doing I was just playing along you know so I have to ban you bye bye hmm hmm hmm why why huh? why? why do that? why do that to me? we need we don't need to follow fuck good day no need to follow fuck good day and that's good now back back uh no it's not it now back back to it wait wait guarantee guarantee oh oh okay anyways anyways anyways anyways anyways anyways what did I want to do? oh yeah Maru I wanted to talk to Maru where is she? Maru? I see no Maru I see no Maru I'll be here maybe I'll be here at her home maybe maybe not down low maybe maybe not down low I don't know I don't know everything's a mystery yep da da da da da da da da da da da ah hello Maru's dad so Maru inside alright what the hell what the hell get to check that farm cave of course of course of course I always will I always will no Maru this time around I wanted to talk to her improve my relationship to her yes yes I wait again oh alright we don't need that oh alright we don't need that priority we don't need that You should make this go quiet I should make Discord quiet. Yeah, yeah. In quite mode. Did I do it? I have not. I have not. No. No. No. Oh, okay. Okay. I like that now. Okay. Never mind. Damn it. Damn it. Damn it. The chickens. Oh, the mayonnaise. are the chickens fine they are fine back in make a big chest can i make a big chest yes but a big one i don't have one all right we're still starting out after all we are still starting out wait wait wrong one wrong one wait oh they're ready wait which one of those book oh that's the one's book toy oh thank you thank you thank you oh no no i broke my book toy great um thank you thank you and they should be ready for tomorrow um and them right now they should be ready um four times a day um about nine there's more let's make more there there there there there there all right put them out um i water these plants wait there come on come on oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh i'm g sweater oh yes yes yes yes i will feed you i will feed you okay okay i'm hearing things still the dog the dog wait back away good you know what i'll plant the rest here good pretty much good and there put that baby in put that baby in eat the chicken get more hay for the coming winter everything's watered okay how many days do i have three days oh sap i got sap yes yes yes yes give me give me give me give me give me person good pungent substance that are from pungent damn is that uh does that smell i guess so i guess so i guess so i guess so oh alright give me hay if you're still open oh yeah dear open drop in nice 10 10 make sure animals warmer in after you're during the winter oh yeah i need that i need that wait can i hmm i can purchase another chicken another chicken get more eggs maybe oh oh hmm hmm did i put an egg in my oh let us check let us check hello okay um oh let us check hello okay um oh oh oh oh oh oh oh mayonnaise maker good good another yes what's the water for tomorrow when we cry with gust of winds throughout the day alright what what do now what do now oh like cut trees um um one two one two i love it i love this chugging of mayonnaise okay i mix it up okay i mix it up get more get more get more out of this uh uh thank you run hello oh can't wait for tomorrow i'll play horror horror stuff oh can't wait for tomorrow i'll play horror horror stuff hmm the calming feel of stardew love it Love it. Good amount. Good amount. I want to reach 200. Good, good, good, good. Good, good, good, good. All for this. One more, one more, one more. One more, one more. Not enough. Not enough. Do I drink more mayonnaise? Let's drink more mayonnaise. Drink it. Mayonnaise. Love it. It's just... Oil? And... Egg. I think. Yeah. I want to try that at least once. Make mayonnaise on my own. One egg and... Oil. I don't know which oil though. It's definitely oil. I don't know which kind of... Alright. Good, good, good. Just enough. Just enough. Not really... Excite? No, not excite. Exhaust. Not really to do anything. Hmm. Quit. Much. Much. Almost. Just go ham tomorrow. Oh, damn. Spring, hurry, catfish. Where do I get catfish? Mare, shorts. Oh yeah, the shorts. Oh yeah, dad, dad, dad. Bap, bap. Wait, can I give her? I can talk to her. Let's just talk. I'll grab her out. Tag her out. And get money. For the heater. For the piggins. And... They're pretty much good. They'll be healthy. Along the way. Delivery. Run low on iron bar. If someone could bring one, it would be appreciated. Makes Lee happy. No. That's my iron bar. I need that iron bar. Hello. Yes, hello. What the hell is that? I forgot. How much is this? Oof. No, no, no, no. Uh, eventually. Eventually. Once I get everything in motion. Big bucks. More cows. More farms. More rue. Hello. Hello. I bet we'll start seeing more people at the clinic this season. I hope everyone stays healthy. Hmm. Ain't that nice? Ain't that nice? What do now? What do now? What do now? What do? What do? Good fish. But I won't. I got no time for it. Wait. Wait. Wait. Wait. Wait. Wait. The board. The board. I want to check the board. This one. At least per day. Meh. I won't give. I won't give you anything. Uh. Somber. Somber. Robin's resources. Meh. I'm putting on a little promotion. Just. Oh, yeah. That. Hmm. I am. I am. I am thinking. If I ate the mayonnaise. Maybe I could. Cut the trees. All of my mayonnaise. Just to get enough energy. Just enough. Down. At least a thousand. And give it to her. With the trees. She won't take them. That's for sure. But she'll give me something in return. But I don't know what. Maybe. What time? Do I just. No. Hmm. What you doing? Only show where you. Voice of the Spirit. Just channeled directly. To you. Spirit. Char. And good. Farm. Uh. Okay. Okay. Oh. I don't know. I can move that. Wait. Wait. Wait. Wait. Wait. Can I put you over here? That's nice. That's nice. What are you doing? Just for now. We are chicken egg. Chicken egg. Egg? No. Egg. One egg. I'll sleep it off. What? New crafting recipe. Lightning rod. What? Poor. New crafting recipe. Wild seed. Ah. Bad. New crafting recipe. What? Warped totem? Warped totem. Is it. Is it that kind of warp totem? Fly around? Maybe. Maybe not. I don't know. I don't know. Could be. Could be. Could be. Get that. Good. Um. That. Good. Can. I've already. They're ready. They're ready. Oh. Do you get. Replanted? Oh. That's good to know. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Let me. Uh. Take this. Very close. Here. And some more. Good. Good. Good. Plan a lot. Plan a lot. That should be a good amount of money. Quiet dog. Good. Okay. I'm good. Good. Good. Good. Very good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Second. And. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. okay okay we don't have two so let's make two here extras good okay um i'll put the rest good uh bring the mayonnaise what 20 one two four that's ah no almost no not yet not yet um water should upgrade my watering can that's increase increase it but how much do i need just one egot i think right and money i need money oh no i think it's one thousand just to upgrade if i remember right maybe maybe much this is so much decisions water water oh yeah cut trees need to do that much refill oh yeah get the chickens one one water water water water can i plant things even if in winter hmm i'll see i guess we shall see when when winter comes uh uh yes a nice drink of mayonnaise oh are you fairy why but why why don't you love me jigan love me please oh yeah that's a better day a few more days so i can gift her okay play okay what should i have yep i have to drink mayonnaise bring mayonnaise bring the mayonnaise we're gonna go ham here we go gotta wait get get get get get get put put put right here yes yes good good good good good don't know all my energy is spent that's the plan cut cut cut yes more trees more trees more trees 69 nice nice very engulfed everything that's 800 i think just one more a thousand 200 250 i think so i think so i assume so oh whoa 250 250 i still got energy i still got energy come on bring that bowie down good good good good all three all three um get those away we don't need them uh cut cut good good good good oh oh oh oh that's a big tree i don't want to i don't want to i don't want to uh quit cut cut treed trees treed treed i want to i want those to grow i don't want to destroy them yet i need to cut a lot of trees okay good um I need to cut a lot of trees. Okay, good. One more roll. One more roll. Almost. Almost. Just two more trees, I think. Good. Good. Oh, yeah. Oh. I got it. I got it. It's a wood and you can keep the wood. That's it? What do you mean? I thought I... Well, that's good, I guess. Now to buy the soup that I need. Or here. Right here. Let the chicken survive. When the winter comes. Yes. Chicken. And it's close. Son of a gun. Tomorrow. Love. Love. Love. Love. Love. Love to be. I am. Rezinar up. As the youngster say. I am not even that old. But. Yeah. I won't question it. I won't question it. I won't say anything. Although. We out. Oh. Uh. Oh. Oh. Nice stretch. Oh, no. is um then i can I'll leave leave it be Alright, alright I'm good Page 4 gosh not It's night out Um, close the babies. We got food, we got water. And, oh yeah, it's a rock. I have a rock. Put that baby in. Put that baby in. That's a good amount. Um. Oh. Storm is approaching. Thunder and lightning is. Then, I won't have to water tomorrow. Do I sleep? Yes, let's sleep. Keep it off. Good night. Rule. New crafting recipe. Loom. Loom. Have no sheep's though. All the retaining soil. Oh, persistence. Watery. And persistence. Oh. Good amount. But not much. But still good amount. A7. Thank you. Um, dad. Where's my. Oh. Where's my other goal. 10. Should be 10. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. um that where's my where's my article and those should be 10 five five that way i can make my watering can national upgrade hey bob congratulations on completing my little challenge i'm impressed as a added bonus i included the blueprints for a new type of chest enjoy p.s now that you have all those christmas is laying around why not swing by my some construction work don't chance okay um what do we have huh place store items but why stone but no all right that looks good oh i forgot i totally forgot oh go back in go again i should get more chickens two more two more i should get more too two more chickens i got money and here i can get a heater i'm there yeah i need to check the watering can situation and i won't be able to water though i think i don't know the fish the chickens water water give it a nice watering can it's 9 pm son of a gun well i talk to maru now give maru something i don't know what no no no no no no please please please help with the rain oh what the hell oh that's scary i'm gonna die okay um land land give her a sweet pea wait summer flower i'll give her a sweet pea um oh whoa oh i'm just parrying okay whoa some deer damn i think it died i have to cut it no i'll leave it be i don't know what happened that's sad though that's sad tree tree tree wait train i have money what do we give what do i get wrong way wrong way mine i got time go to the farm go to the blacksmith and all that and and do better mention oh like we can do everything cut oh yeah train train train train oh cool oh give call come on drop more drop more oh oh something there knew oh whoa i know you could get from there i like it i should do that more excuse me oh wait wait wait wait wait great oh dang hardwood no wrong one construction farm houses for killing animals i need new window stone soon once i have money i can make more excusey i've come bearing gifts this is super good thank you what it rains i have a good work on my guests all day it's be kind of boring for you though don't say that it's not boring i think just keep doing what i do just mine away of course i'll do now um blacksmith if i can get a watering can up to up to working standards my boy two goza mark no I need a lot of ingots, I can make some then I am... oh, this let's take it, we'll be in here good afternoon, yes good afternoon mayor okay, what's that? let's see, ooh, for 2018, mature and new to produce after first harvest, ooh I'll do that in summer or spring, I'll do that in spring they should be too good the rest of the season like... spring, summer, autumn it should be good then, right? winter I assume I'm not a farmer oh yeah, oh yeah, let's go down a bit more again, and a heater ah! ooh! Tracy, Tracy, hello thank you, thank you, thank you for the follow hello always scares me, always scares me hello Peter more hay, at least 10 good thank you, thank you for the wishes milk a doghouse, oh, damn, that's expensive expensive okay, just go back yes, yes, Tracy what brings you by? if you don't mind if you don't mind me asking hey, wrong way that way, up there oh yeah, heater, here, the heater here here I am, heater I have come... where do I put it? up here, there nice heater take it what am I doing nowadays? streaming, editing and going with the flow as always, that's what I've been doing what I've been doing um, mayonnaise, thank you um, mayonnaise, thank you I should put that there as always that's what I've been doing um thank you I should put that there that's great yes yes okay a lot of toll for yes let's go and one oh it's a multiplayer game or if you want it to be solo you can play it also oh yeah oh yeah I can definitely make my water can now oh yeah the chickens I wanted chickens no please please let me reach it let me reach it before he closes chicken chicken chicken chicken chicken chicken I don't know uh at least I don't know I forgot it just close just close I want his chickens I want more chicken I don't know exactly so it's on console could be at least I don't know I honestly I don't know there are a lot of gamers I don't know if they're in right now or not I can only assume uh but one wrong face all right yep no worries fall guys fall guys I have not I have not tried fall guys at all since it came out I seen it I know how it works but never tried it so here I am too oh good what's damn that's a lot okay that's food food that's food i should organize i should definitely organize eventually that's food um radish summer's turtle i should definitely give that to her like the end they look so amazing i had them yay hello hmm told me what told me what he dig no no no no no no no no no dream is going good hello oh wait ooh i need that arm back i need that arm back crazy cruise but why why why do i need work your work hello who are you it better be not work work related things your work project crazy why did you follow me just because i don't have anything on my screen is that it is that why you follow me is that why you follow me i hope not i don't like it don't do this to me i'm just a simple guy i'm just a simple guy some of your creations but why you can post that on x on twitter and people love it you don't need my opinion or thoughts hey hey damn big good sleep me oh now it's a day no grab oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh grab snake right there it's blackberry season right now bushes are full of them i want you to pick some but i lost my bucket can you help bucket why why why what do you mean why do you need my bucket find luna's bucket and ready to return to him but where you don't specifically say where it is just say find it sure i'll find your bucket somewhere whatever okay oh for the bucket oh what the bucket okay oh what the bucket oh damn we need to ready nope ready ready nope oh oh oh that's definitely dead I don't want to cut it though I want I don't want to cut it okay great all right I should definitely get more sprinklers or at least make a sprinkler I I I I I I I I I I I I I I get friggin by今日は chill alright quiet because you were a neighborhood водó hell from monde으로 hmmm Vig Vig tav I love this I have to try um for chickens i think yes yes yes chicken i need two more chickens i'll be able to do more chicken chicken hey have I gone what is it yeah never mind it never mind the chickens I guess that is that what am I doing very picking where could I find a bucket that's the question wait she's at the clinic right is she at the clinic maybe I don't know oh my let's all check her out oh she is she love this this is super gift all right thank you have you explored the mines as much I heard you can find useful material oh she love it good to know I don't know if she loved it or not but good to know now okay good bucket oh damn it's been two hours I think it is a good day to end the day yeah yeah until tomorrow scary stuff scary stuff tomorrow okay the calm before the storm as I call it okay thanks I'll just turn this on this again could be ready in a couple days how do I water my waters yes I won't yes flip give me a just like a famous omelet I got the urge to make my famous giant omelet but I'll need two dozen any takers I'll need two dozen for unknown reasons the local population of werefush fish has grown to an unstable level I need a local wonder if she's open now wrong way eat chickens honey chickens and there she is walking about are you gonna be open would you be okay whosuvers guess not i guess not what got her eggs eggs eggs and gus the fridge fridge great let's just go I guess close as well eh i'll stop right there okay not bye why nice to give it here all right bam well that's that's it that's it for today i would say i would say hey hey my the computer ok 100 right I I ta i i saved nah fingers кру fresh i i i i i i Have a good day. You would have followed? I don't know. Yeah. Bye.