Kale & Potato Harvest Day  | From Garden to Table
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sKUkzQJt3HA
Howto & Style
 Good morning YouTube and welcome back to my channel. Behind me is my Tremol raised bed. It has kale and potatoes in it. The last two or three days we have had some really hard rain and heavy rain. So what I'm going to do as a result of the rain, you can see a lot of the kale is bent over or blown. So what I'm going to do is harvest everything that I can from this bed of the kale and then I'm going to remove the plants. And then I'm going to come back and see if we have any potatoes ready and dig those up. And I thought I would bring you along. Hmm. I'm going to come back and see if we can. Pull off the ones that don't look good. And we're going to keep the ones that look good. Now, I know kale is supposed to be very hardy and it should be able to last through the summer, but the kale here is looking rather bad. So that's another reason for removing it. There's going to be a lot of kale too, as there are 10 plants, I believe. Man-maderaktariums— Things like that are cool. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Now, that's a lot of kale, and we're only through three plants. So we're going to go ahead and finish the rest of them and then come back. So we're back. And as you can see, we have a bunch of kale here. I'm going to go ahead and put this in the tote that I have. And then we're going to do the four or five potatoes that I have. And hopefully we'll have a harvest. And hopefully we'll have a harvest. They're going to have a经-emos market. I'm cutting the plant off itself. Then I'm going to dig around it. I'm not really knowing what to expect from these. Oh, we've got two. Oh, we've got two. Two more small ones. Make it three. Three. One. Bye-bye. Parиях so you had . It was not an aiming to also see , but this item he had was not , just the笑verse明 andometer that was so mighty I was not to say that before everything Sam adesso margins here What was that? This was the only child I got. Also, so I knew that. This won't be gay for you... This would be that low because, well whether that And every single Swiss shoulder. And every singleguard, and every singleguard Mm, mm, mm, mm. I've lived a single life, all that así. ähnlich two yapılan When I take a walk to the hospital I turn the phone But when I turn on cord indavilion I'm going to get the food out. You can blow it. I'm going to get the food out. I'm going to get the food out. I'm going to get the food out. I'm going to get the food out. I'm going to get the food out. I'm going to get the food out. I'm going to get the food out. So overall, it's kind of what I expected out of these plants. Not much of a harvest. And we got some very small, what I'm going to call white new potatoes. And we have a grand total of about 10. Which I suppose is better than nothing. But it's better than nothing. And it's kind of what I expected. This was a spur of the moment thing. Planting a used stored potato in here. I cut it into four pieces. And next year, I'm probably going to either plant three different types of potatoes in this bed. Or use this bed for collards or something along those lines. But considering it was a spur of the moment thing, I'm kind of happy with the harvest. It could have been better. But again, it's better than nothing. So as far as what I'm going to do with this bed right now, actually, probably nothing. Probably just going to leave it and let it sit. Probably clean it up a little bit. I can't think of anything else that I need to plant or should be planting right now. During the heat of summer, other than maybe flowers or something like that. I may decide to sprinkle some flower seeds in this bed. But if I do do something with it, obviously, you guys will be the first ones to know. So here's the final harvest that we got. As you can see, lots of kale. And a few potatoes. And like I said, anything, any kind of harvest is a good harvest. So I'm happy with this. So I want to thank you for coming along with me while we got this harvest. If you enjoyed the video, give me a thumbs up, leave me a comment, and I'll be sure to reply. If you haven't subscribed to my channel, take a moment to consider doing so. I can grow food for myself and my family without any assistance. But I cannot grow the channel without your help. If you do decide to subscribe, don't forget to hit the like button and the notification bell on. So you'll be notified whenever I upload new content. I guarantee you, if you like my content, your family and friends will also. So it's okay to share. Until next time, always remember to give the thanks to God. For it's out to Him, we are nothing. Stay blessed, stay strong, and grow, grow, grow. All right. You're welcome. I'm happy to get started. You're welcome. Thanks. Bye, bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Thank you.