An introduction to The Award Winning Cheese Selection
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SmD2UF6uXGI
People & Blogs
 Hi I'm Andy from the Coyard Dairy. Thank you very much for purchasing the award-winning cheese selection that we do online. I'm going to quickly run through the cheeses that we do. We put this selection together to select really some of the best award-winning cheeses that are made in the Britain. So I have the business here with my wife Cathy and what we try and do is champion and keep alive traditional Farmhouse cheeses. So the first cheese in your box, the one I recommend tasting first is the Killeen. It's this one here, it's a Goatswilk Gouda, so traditional Gouda style made by Marian Rodeveld. Now Marian is a very small traditional Farmhouse cheesemaker, but she's in Ireland. She's a Dutch lady and in the Netherlands they teach you how to make Gouda styles, that's what she learned in Agricultural College. But then she fell in love with a goat farmer in Ireland, Husk, moved to Ireland and now she makes these Dutch style cheeses in Ireland with 200 goats that they farm on the one little farm. Very small production. By making a Gouda style you wash the curd and what that does is that produces a real sweet suppleness, a bounciness to the cheese and a nice sweet nuttiness to the cheese and it's one, you know, best Irish cheese and best, yeah, best supreme champion goat's cheese. Many, many different awards, many different times. What we do here at the Coyard Dairy is we mature that a little bit longer, so about 9-12 months just to really intensify that flavour and it's something that we do unique here. The next one I'd taste is the Tunworth. So this is the British Camembert. This is made by Charlotte and Stacey and they are down in Basingstoke in Hampshire. 2004 they came to a lot of cheese shops and what they wanted to do was make a Camembert style in that French style, so really quite vegetal, quite intense, quite powerful, not just mild and creamy like a lot of brie styles can be, really classic Normandy style of Camembert. So they went to Normandy, they saw how they made it, they brought back some of their moulds and yeast and bacteria and they do this thing which not many people do called traditional hand ladling which gives a real smooth creamy texture. What we try and do is get cheeses that are really selected out for us at Coyard Dairy, really wrinkly cheeses that are quite powerful and quite intense in flavour and that's what we're looking for from those cheeses and they're doing a really good job down there. They won supreme British cheese a couple of times, that's how they're their little wad. Old Winchester, this is one of our medals and like Sir Steve Redgrave himself, this is a gouda recipe crossed with the cheddar recipe. Now Mike and Judy Smales and their son Jono, they farm down in Wiltshire Hampshire area really, in the New Forest and what they do is they went to a classic story with modern-day British cheese, not making enough money for their milk, they want a one-day cheese making course. They decided to diversify into cheese making, they decided not to make cheddar even though that's what they went on their little course for, they decided to make a gouda and basically messed it up. They made cheddar at the front end of the recipe and gouda at the back end which means what they've made is a cheddar gouda cross which has a whiff of Parmesan about it. They mature, it's about 24 months old so it's quite powerful and intense and so our big strong one there, it's a nice big strong powerful intense, nice crystalline niche to it and made just on their own little family farm down in Hampshire Wiltshire. And finally Leeds Blue, this is made by Mario, obviously not a classic Yorkshire name Mario. Mario moved to Yorkshire about 15, 20 years ago, I fell in love, well it's always a lady that'll make you move from Sardinia to Yorkshire. His family makes cheeses in their own little house back in Sardinia and what he wanted to do was try and recreate that. Now being from the area they mainly make sheep's milk cheeses so he uses local sheep's milk from one little farm just on the outskirts of Harrega and brings it down into the centre of Leeds where he's converted his garage, believe it or not, into a cheese making facility. And he makes really Italian style cheeses but using sheep's milk and gives it that real sweet creaminess to the final cheese. That's your Warwing cheese selection, I hope you enjoy it. There's a lot more information on our website about all of those four cheeses including some videos of how they are, some of them are produced. Thank you very much for purchasing the books again, I really appreciate supporting traditional farm cheese. Bye bye.