Design and implementation of family farm records
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sn7JUlb4Gp8
Nonprofits & Activism
 Valentina Morales, Rural Development of the Rural Office of the FAO for Latin America and the Caribbean. I would like to warmly welcome all participants in this session. This is a session of the cycle for the exchange of experiences on family farming registries. Before we begin, I'd like to remind you that this event has a simultaneous interpretation into Spanish, English, French, Arabic and Portuguese. Probably, we're presently adjusting the interpretation in some of the channels, but that will be working perfectly well in a few minutes. So thank you for your patience. I also remind you that this session is being recorded and you'll be able to find it in the family agriculture platform that we will be sharing with you during the event. This cycle of technical exchanges of experiences on family farming registry seeks to promote cooperation and the exchange of experiences based on the UN decade on family farming and also the priorities established for Latin America and the Caribbean in Santiago, Chile in 2022. This dialogue seeks to share lessons learned and challenges in the development of family farming registries and their link to policies aimed at strengthening the sector throughout the world. This event is conducted by the regional platform on family agriculture managed by the regional FAO Office for Latin America and the Caribbean with the technical support of the unit for family farming participation. This event is coordinated by the secretariat of the Central American Farm Council, family farming unit of Mercosur via its pro temporary chair of Brazil and the national coordination of the Ministry for Agricultural Development and Family Farming. In the first session, we were already able to reflect on the importance of developing an institutional framework for family farming. And on that occasion, we were able to listen to the experiences of Panama and Croatia. We were able to view how the process to produce legislation enabling us to be able to view these key sectors so that we can have differentiated policies in place, highlighting the needs of family farming. In that session, we were able to view the importance of participation in these processes with dialogue for its construction and its implementation. The recording of that first session is available in our platform in the link that we will be sharing during this second session. Today, the objective is to get to know experiences, to determine how the design and implementation has been done from family farming registries and to consider the main elements when we begin to work with key registries to guarantee its effectiveness as instruments for the implementation of differentiated policies. We have the pleasure of having representatives from Kenya and Jordan that will share their experiences in a few more minutes. And after these two presentations by our panelists, we will also have a 40 minute Q&A session so that we can discuss these cases that have been presented. And so please take note of the queries that you may have so that you can then present them via the chat. This session will be guided by a whole series of guiding questions and seek to highlight elements during the design and implementation of family farming registries such as the stages of the implementation process, tools that are used, cost structures, incentives, validation processes and also challenges. And so, in view of time, I'd like to ask our panelists to deliver the presentations in 25 minutes and I'll be letting you know that you have two minutes left for your intervention so that you can bring your presentation to a close. To begin with this session, I would like to begin with this session, I would like to offer the floor to Mr. Wilfredo Lauch, who is a consultant for the escalation of the agricultural platform of Kenya. You have 20 minutes for your presentation and please confirm that you're able to share your screen so that we can begin with your presentation. And I'll let you know when you have two minutes. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. This is Wilfredo Lauch from Nairobi, Kenya. I'm joined by my colleague, Mr. Stuart Kippins, who is also on the call. Let me just attempt to share my screen and then I will try and proceed as advised. Has been introduced. I am a government and FAO liaison. So my job essentially is to move between government and FAO to make sure that information that is required is going between the two parties as we do implementation of the FAO Kenya office. I want to take you through a presentation that will try and show you what we have learned and the kind of things we have done in terms of developing a farmer registry for the country, which is equivalent to the farming households registry that we have been talking about. So I'll try and be quick. The presentation is quite general, but I have a few lessons learned that I think will be good for us to discuss. So without much ado, let me proceed. In this overview, I will be talking about what led to the effort that we have just undertaken in terms of registering farmers. What needs were there? Then we did a pilot as FAO in the country. I will share the experiences from there. And then what we are doing right now as we scale that up to develop a national registry of farming households. And then some of the challenges and lessons that we have learned, then we'll be able to take some Q&A towards the end. So just in case you're wondering where Kenya is, there is where Kenya is on the map. We are at the east coast of Africa and we are smug on the equator. So let's move on to that. In terms of background and needs, this exercise came about as a result of a request from the government of Kenya to develop an information management platform that would allow us to keep track of all the farming households. In Kenya, about two-thirds of all rural households are farming households. In fact, literally everyone who lives in the city has a farm somewhere in the rural household. And there was a big challenge in terms of having that information in a central place. There were lots of registrations ongoing from different players, UN, some NGOs, some private sector companies and the government itself. But what left essentially was a centralized repository where we could all be able to access this information. And therefore, the rest of the presentation will show you how we have tried to address this problem and where we are at. So as I said, about two-thirds of households in Kenya are farming households and it's estimated to be about six million households that are engaged in one form or the other of farming household level. So I mentioned the pilot. So we have a lot of people in Kenya, particularly Zambia. And so we brought this system into Kenya and first of all, engaged the government in customizing it and finding out where the areas of commonality would be and where the differences were. We then built a system that was targeting the Kenyan scenario. And then we undertook a pilot in a subsection of the country where we registered farming households to demonstrate how the platform actually worked. And we were able to do that successfully and collect some data. One of the main things that came out of this that got us moving forward was our partners, the government, were able to see that this data was coming in real time. And therefore, we could actually monitor this data as it came in and correct any data that seemed suspicious or out of place. And so after this successful pilot was quite a bit of interest in scaling this up. And we are actually now in the process of doing this full blast. So the kind of the picture you see there on the right is an example of what was going on on the ground. The enumerators after training, they were using digital tablet devices about eight inches in diameter. And they were collecting data at the household at the farming household level. So the picture you see there is an actual real farmer who's been interviewed by a real enumerator. And they're collecting data into the tablet and transmitting it in real time to a central database. We're now at the control room in the capital. We could actually see this data coming in and look at all the relevant metrics. And so this has been carried forward into our national registration that is ongoing at the moment that I'll speak about momentarily. Thank you. Mr. Wilfred, sorry for interrupting. Would it be possible to speak a little slower for the Arabic translation? My apologies. Let me use my speech. So maybe just to reiterate what I had said, we did a pilot. And out of that pilot, we were able to collect data and demonstrate that the platform actually worked. And as a result of this, we got a lot of goodwill from the government itself. And we moved forward now into doing a full-scale pilot, rather a full-scale registration of farming households that I will speak about in a moment in the next slide. As I said, after the 2020 and 2021 pilot, we had a year of 2022, which was an election year. So we sort of like dialed back our activities as that year passed by. We focused mainly on capacity building and review of our plans. And then in 2023, we kicked off on full farmer registration. And this was scaled up to all the sub-national regions. In Kenya, we have about 47 sub-national regions known as counties. And we are doing this registration in 45 out of the 47. The two that are left out are 98% urban cities. And therefore, those were left out because of the assumption that there was not much farming going on there. But that's also under review because of urban farming that is coming up. Nevertheless, this has been scaled up to 45 counties. And we have done several things so far. The picture you see there on your right is an example of one of the capacity buildings that we have been undertaking, where we have trained extensively from stakeholders from both national and sub-county levels. So working with agricultural officers at both the national level and at the 47 sub-national levels, particularly the 45 that are part of the process now, we have done training and we are kicking off this process. Interestingly enough, that process actually starts today, which is the 5th of September. So it's interesting we're giving this presentation today because this is the kickoff of the national farmer registration. After doing this extensive training, which you can see there in point, actually the third point there, which should be C, not B, we involve the national statistics office known in Kenya as the national bureau of statistics to make sure that the methodology was sound and that the enumeration would be done in a way that would be statistically valid. So there'll be part and parcel of that. The other key thing here to note is that, as I mentioned in the previous slide, there had been many projects and programs undertaking separate disjointed registrations of farming households. One of the key things that happened going forward to enable this is that we consolidated all those efforts by having the government be front and center in bringing all players to the table. And with some additional funding we got from the World Bank and from the Swedish Development Agency, FAO was able to provide technical support to ensure that all the efforts were consolidated into one unified and comprehensive registration. So as we speak, as this registration starts, we have consolidated all the multiple efforts and we are creating a repository that will be shared by all the stakeholders who are previously undertaking separate disjointed registrations. We had used a budget of about 300,000 US dollars for the initial pilot, which involved also customizing the system. So there was system development there. There were staff costs associated with undertaking the exercise. And so that's why it was 300,000 USD. We estimate that this exercise in the 45 counties, which is about 95% of the country, is going to cost about 3.1 million US dollars. We have funding consolidated from these multiple projects that I've talked about. And we have also a pocket of funding straight from the World Bank and from the Swedish Development Agency and FAO itself. So the key point here is we are doing a national exercise now based on consolidation of effort and funding. And we are moving forward quite well with it. Here I want to share some few pictures. As we say, a picture is worth a thousand words. So going from the top row to the, from left to right, and then the lower row. The very first picture you see there, if you can see my cursor, this picture is the one that was there previously. This is an example of the kind of capacity building we were doing, which was decentralized. So we were going out to the counties, to the sub-national levels, and doing the training there to make sure there is uptick at that level. There was a lot of recruitment to be done. This is not the actual line of enumerated being recruited, but just an example to show you there was a lot of interest. In fact, as we speak, there are still some recruitments that are ongoing in different counties, because the number of applicants for these positions was enormous and exceeded the requirement. We also worked closely with the local government administration. So you see here on the right-hand side. It was an example of a sensitization taking place at the local governments, where the local administration officers were brought on board and briefed on why this exercise was important. And they were essentially making sure that sensitization is done properly at the village and household level, door-to-door, literally, in meetings that in Africa we call barazas, where you call people in and talk to them about what's going on. And so these were important to get on board. It also helped to ensure security of the enumerators as they went out, and also the security of the farmers as they were visited within their homesteads for purposes of enumeration. The feature at the bottom left here shows you one of the activities that was undertaken. This is an example here of one mission that we went on to test the system prior to doing the training. So here we had local young people been involved in the exercise. And in this picture, they had been debriefed by a village elder who was just about to take them into a village and to identify the farming households that they would then add to the database. So this exercise involved getting stakeholders to understand what we were doing at all levels, from the national level to the village and to the household. So in the middle here, where there's a motorcycle, shows you one of the field tests subsequent to the initial one you see on the left, where now this was actually a deep part collecting the data in some of these subnational counties, where now the elders were actually surveying some of the farms so that they could guide the enumerators who would be coming appropriately and save time and avoid them getting lost and things like that. The funnel in the bottom half here shows you both in ceremony, where because the data is sensitive and has personal identifying information in it, we required the enumerators working on the ground to swear an oath saying that they would manage this data as expected and not misuse the private information that they would be getting from the farmers. So the way it was done, because of the large numbers, is there would be a standard oath prepared and then we would have an administrator of oath, a lawyer in other words, come in and get everybody on oath. So this is happening currently in about 45 of those subnational regions we have talked about, and we estimate the total number of data collectors or enumerators will be between 15,000 and 20,000 who are hitting the ground as we talk now. So that's a quick overview of what was going on in terms of preparing for this. Let's take a look at the challenges we faced as I try to use my remaining time. First of all, I said that there were multiple projects and programs which were already undertaking this kind of exercise in a disjointed manner. And therefore, whenever you wanted to know how many farming households we had, it was difficult to establish that, because everybody had their own piece of data somewhere. We also had a lot of requests to change this, we change, you know, what kind of data was being collected because different parties wanted to have their own data collected, perhaps based on what their specific program was interested in. So just at point B, we actually spent a lot of time putting people at the same table, around the table, to agree on some common parameters that could then be put in the common tool so that everybody got a bit of what they wanted, but not everything they wanted. We also experienced some issues, some complications due to our procurement and due process. As we know in FAO, we have stringent procurement procedures. So sometimes the government wanted to move faster than those procedures allowed. And so this was also, you know, a pain point at some point, but we managed to work within the allowable parameters. There was also a huge turnover in some departments, government being government, and government employees being expected to work anywhere in the country at any time. Sometimes we had trained individuals who then would be moved from that situation to somewhere else. So that meant retraining or, you know, making necessary adjustments there. Another challenge we faced was stakeholders who had different priorities, some of them big donors who wanted to do different things. And so we had to find those who were willing to work with our line of thought and try and narrow down to what was common. Then there was also an issue of technology. So because there were different options being put on the table, we eventually had to settle for the kind of technology that the government was comfortable with and which the majority of people were happy with. Finally, what are some of the lessons we learned? So if I was to summarize that, we, from this exercise, which is kicking off today, as I said, and data is already streaming. Actually, as I speak to you, I was logging on and checking that we are literally getting sometimes a thousand records coming in every hour from across the board because it's taking our enumerators perhaps 20 to 30 minutes to interview a farmer and those records are flying in literally in real time now. We needed high-level support, which we managed to get. So getting the minister and anybody at that level to endorse the project so that then everybody moves in that direction. That's one of the issues that was there. Then we had to make sure we have engaged all the stakeholders. As I said, we had a lot of disjointed efforts ongoing and we needed to make sure that we have funding put together in a common port to be able to execute this at scale across the country. And that could only be done if everybody put their little pockets of money into one big basket to enable that to go forward. And that created momentum that is now being seen going forward. The vendor management on technology also was an issue that we learned about on the job. Sometimes you want things to be done much quicker than the vendor can respond. So we had to make sure that we establish a good enough relationship with the vendor so that when the government wakes up the next day and says we want these additional items captured, we have the ability to turn around within that time. The other thing that we learned there is it was easier for us to do this in bits and pieces as you can imagine. So we shipped out this module and a few other modules we are working on. For example, we are working on delivery of targeted extension messages to these farmers after they have been registered. But we're taking a piecemeal, step-by-step approach to doing this so that it's manageable due to the number of stakeholders and their huge interests here. This particular process, by the way, has actually also been specifically called out by the president of the country, his excellency, and therefore it has that level of visibility. He has actually said that he's watching this process and so we have endorsement from that level and it's moving on well. Obviously, it's expensive to undertake this exercise and so the costs keep going up and up by the day, but we have managed to at least set some ceilings and manage expectations of stakeholders so that we can remain within budget and perhaps postpone other kinds of things to a later date. So finally, I would say if we were to summarize what we have learned from this exercise as we proceed to create this registry that will be significant and inform future policy decisions based on empirical evidence because this is what we have lacked up till now. We have never really been able to say how many farmers we have, what they are growing, what kind of farm sizes they have, what livestock they keep, what their challenges are, until now. So we expect that over the next one month, the end of September, we should be able to have a database that we can query and actually now very specifically inform policy decisions based on actual statistically sound data. So in summary, it takes a while. We did the best in terms of planning, but there were all those things popping up and you really just have to be agile and be able to prepare for a long process. This has been in the making since 2021, 2020, as I've said, and it's only now that it's taking off. So today is a definitive day. Glad I was able to make the presentation at this point. So with that, I think I've done my 20 minutes. I would like to leave it there and hand it back to you, Valentina. Thank you very much. Thank you very much for this excellent presentation. Thank you very much. This is a very interesting case from Kenya. As Mr. Wilfred said, it's something happening as we speak. And we would like to commend you for this, the beginning of data collection of more than, work done by more than 15,000 data collectors. And once the database is ready, we will be able to discuss again and you will be able to tell us the lessons learned that you will be able to gather during the process. We see in this case the importance of collaboration among different stakeholders, the key role of the government in endorsing the initiative that has allowed to sensitize this sector that also has the support of His Excellency, the President of Kenya. So it is something important of that relevance and also the importance of the fact that these processes are participatory, including dialogue, but was also part of the training of these data collectors that are starting their work today in this huge mission of being able to collect and survey this information. Thank you so much for your presentation. In case the audience has questions or comments, you may jot them down so we can discuss during the Q&A session at the end of our presentations. or you can raise your hand once the presentations are done. Once again, thank you very much. We are going to go into the next case now. Before that, let me remind you that there is interpretation available into English, French, Portuguese, Spanish, and Arabic, and we are also recording the session so you can also find it in the regional technical platform that is available at the link in this chat. We are going to go now into the Jordan case. Our colleague, Marco de Milato, coordinator of the office in Jordan and Dr. Haldalesa, head of projects of the Ministry of Agriculture in Jordan. You have 25 minutes for your presentation. I'll let you know when you're left with only two minutes so you can start wrapping up your presentation. So please, go ahead. Thank you. Thank you very much, Valentina, and good morning, everyone. Thanks also to your office and the organizer for this webinar, which I believe is coming at the right time. I think there is a good momentum for farmer registries that are being developed in several countries and it's good to share experience, challenges, lessons learned. So thanks for this. And I'm here. My name is Marco de Milato, I'm the project manager for FAO Jordan. I'm based in Amman and have been working since the last couple of years in developing what we call JAMIS, which is an integrated agriculture management information system. The system has been developed and designed within a larger program. Okay, so it's only one output of a larger program that is focused on different other sectors. We have livelihood support, we have forestry, we have refugee support. So this is only one small aspect. And the project is funded by the European Union and is implemented in two countries, which is Lebanon and Jordan. And the title is Enhancing Resilient Livelihood and Food Security of Host Community and Syrian Refugees in Jordan and Lebanon through the promotion of sustainable agricultural development. So the project is implemented by three UN agencies, the Rome-based UN agencies, which is FAO, IFAD and World Food Programme and is implemented in collaboration with the Minister of Agriculture in Jordan and the Ministry of Agriculture in Lebanon. Next. This particular registry has been designed in collaboration with FAO Lebanon. They started working on this since the last few years and they piloted and what we are presenting here is a customization of their system, which also took into consideration the previous experience of other countries, including Kenya, the Chiamis, including Zambia, that we studied and analyzed before starting the design of Chiamis in Jordan. It has three main elements. the first one is the farmer registry. The second one, we will see it later, is a targeting module and the third one is a new voucher management module. The farmer registry has one central system and the server is installed at the Modi, the Ministry of Digitalization in Jordan. So it's not in FAO, but it's directly installed and we are using the server of the government of Jordan. We supported the Ministry of Agriculture in Jordan to rehabilitate and equip 22 centers and we have also the possibility of mobile units because we provide also tablets to the enumerators of the Ministry of Agriculture and they can register the farmers at their own farms. They can move all around Jordan and register farmers. We have a target of 50,000 farmers to be registered this year even though we are aiming at registering 100% of the farmer population which is estimated to be 120,000 farmers in Jordan. We do not have the exact numbers reason being because we do not have a registry or an official registry so far in Jordan. The targeting module is looking at vulnerable farmers and we are working here with the workforce program to determine the categories that will be used to target the vulnerable farmers. So we are currently conducting studies with workforce program to decide the categories that will be used in the future to determine who is vulnerable and who is not vulnerable. And it will be a flexible model where the vulnerability is the side according to the criteria that can be identified by a specific program or a specific partner, a specific stakeholder or UN agencies. you may have a program, a social protection program which is more focused on children or more focused on women or people with disability and you want to give different weight to this particular category. So you will be able in the targeting module to change or to tailor-made the weight that you want to give to any given categories so that you have specific list of farmers that are aligned to the objective of a specific program. We then have also a third module which is an e-voucher management modules where we will be able to register also supplier and products and then give e-voucher or paper voucher also to farmers so that they can be assisted with input all over the lab. Next. Why an integrated agricultural management information system? I think I share here I don't want to repeat what was mentioned before by my colleague Wilfred but we have similar challenges in Kenya. Well, first of all we wanted to support the agricultural development and the social protection in the country as we want to reduce rural poverty. So, as you see the focus is not so much to increase the taxation and this was a big debate and also big fears from the farmer when we interviewed them in the pilot phase they were fearing of incurring a new taxation by the government but actually the initial scope and the current scope is to support social protection and reduce rural poverty. As mentioned by Wilfred before we had existing registries okay but not a unified one okay so and not a complete one and not a registry that focuses on agricultural sector per se okay so this is what we found at the beginning of the project we wanted to systematize this different registry in one single unified registry in the future is not yet there in the future we would like also to use the registry to monitor food security and nutrition as we speak we are working on it with different stakeholders but the module for food security and nutrition is not yet ready and active the final ultimate goal is also to support the minister of agriculture and other ministry to develop relevant policies for social protection within the agricultural sector next main stakeholder FAU Lebanon which is our partner in this project this regional project targeting the two countries Lebanon and Jordan the ministry of agriculture we have Modi as I told you we are using the server of Modi ministry of digital economy and entrepreneurship and then we have a service provider IDS which is based in Lebanon and then two UN agencies workful program and the donor is the European Union next the steps and the requirements which I found some similarities with the case studies in Kenya we started with the identification of the data set to collect how did we do that it was not an exercise that was implemented in closed door in FAU offices but actually was a participatory exercise and we invited several stakeholders not only the ministry of culture but Department of Statistics farmers unions private sector academia and we tried to come up with the ideal data set that has to be considered for the family registry it was not easy to find consensus and of course it keeps changing as we speak actually it keeps changing because we realize that certain data are relevant and certain data are already there so we just create API or linkages with existing database from other government departments but that was the first initial activities that we have done after that we move to mapping existing databases as I told you some databases were already there we wanted to know who were collecting data how how updated were the data and how the JAMIS could be linked to this existing database only then we started the software design and starting with the customization of the software that was already designed in Lebanon we then try to implement the interoperability and linkages with other registries as I mentioned before and that requires also some memorandum of understanding with other stakeholders like for example department of lands or civil status department etc we then moved to hardware procurement computer tablets we had internet connection we have furnitures within the registration center of the ministry of agriculture all this was procured by FAO and then handed over to the ministry of culture and then we enter into the capacity building phase where we had capacity building in different categories of partners and stakeholders from the IT to the enumerators on the ground and after that the last phase which is still ongoing with finalizing few minor details in these days is the development of the SOPs and the ministry of agriculture is taking the lead and we will have some slides during this presentation next this is just some screenshots on how the system looks we will have two versions in English and Arabic even though we are using only the Arabic for registration and then the English is mainly for dissemination training etc next we have several modules as I told you we will have the first one is the farmer basic information where we register all the needed information not only for the farmer but also for the household the wife and the number of people living in that particular households etc next we don't go into the detail for the sake of time but after registration the farmer we go and register the farm to understand which crops which animal or fish or bees and any other agricultural activities are implemented in that particular farm next the registration is a bit longer than the one in Kenya we take longer than 25 minutes and time can reach up to 45 but this is because we're trying to get as many data as possible as you can see we have farm type cattle fish chicken bees and then we go down into the assets and even down into the workers and farm activities next next next next next we have what I mentioned before the targeting modules and this targeting module as I mentioned is flexible so that it can be tailor made by the municipal agriculture and stakeholders and they will be giving specific weight according to their priorities and then they will get the list of the potential beneficiaries of any specific social protection activities or e-voucher program next and then we have of course a module to manage supplier that needs to register in the system so that they can supply inputs to the farmer that are eligible for any specific e-voucher program next and then we have also some dashboard that the Minister of Agriculture use and found as well of course to monitor and see the progress of the registration the progress of the voucher disaggregation by gender disaggregation by governor rates or by nationality so there is a set of filters that they can use and they can monitor the system on a daily basis as we speak well this was a screenshot that was taken a few days ago but we have already 9000 farmer that has been registered in Jordan next okay I just want to mention here the linkages that we were able to implement in Jordan with other departments particularly with the civil status which will allow now the data to be uploaded from the civil status database once we enter the ID of the farmers all the data will be automatically entered into the registry in Jammies similarly with the Department of Land we created some linkages so that data will be shared between Jammies and the Department of Land same with the Amman Chamber of Commerce public security and then SMS companies to share messages with the farmers and with the Ministry of Agriculture Extension Services next what are the future potential we would like to in the near future to design a module for e-extension services as well as traceability of product we are working on it and hopefully soon we will have this module integrated into Jammies of course we already have the farmer registry launched and as we speak the enumerators of the Minister of Agriculture are registering farmers on a daily basis and we are working on food security and nutrition monitoring we would like to have this monitoring tool ready hopefully by the next year to monitor food security and nutrition and then through the e-voucher we are aiming at increasing social support to the farmer next okay as I mentioned earlier we are in a process of together with the Minister of Agriculture developing the SOPs and I would like to give the floor now to the Minister of Agriculture Khalid and my colleague Wurod they will present you the SOPs and the progress and the challenges that we had in coming up with the legal framework related to it over to you Khalid thank you very much kh the important system. I thank you for the special thanks for Marco and the office of FOW in Jordan for the support of them for this system. Now, this system is a very important system and it was a very important system for us to be able to do a lot of things. So, for that, this was just funeral phase, we located our own fences and it became a system that is a GOAT- mah border to secure one. The citizens and the businesses involved in entering this area. Next day. Next please. Next please. You know, next day. Next please. Next please. Next please. We are trying to fix the translation in Arabic. Next, please. You hear me? Next. Do you hear me? Pedro Dicicino. Hello. Can you hear me? Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. What is the answer? How is it? How is it? How is it? How is it? How is it? How is it? Marco? Yes, they are fixing the translation. Just a few minutes. Now it's working. So you can go ahead. Sorry for that. Now it's working. Okay, great. You can proceed. Okay. Ockay thank you Marcel. We have it first,消滅 third du науч少a permit. First, I'd just say. Okay. Thank you Marco. Back to the علي 카메� appearances. You will be blank Fre glasses, and also résum des線ers. And how the mineraries of this program are attitude statementament. All right. So, File complaint. Look that inkeepers, there's a privilege required to do that, so that it could take action. It'll be different rooms. 24 25 26 27 Yeah. Ah. The executive process will agree completely with the Date of prevention, data assistance, the management process, coached processes, the leadership process, and pounds sugar Suddenly, the storyline of documents. Of course! 2 fromkyo 1 fromkyo AGI beijay bid datababak beif Rail eési parti Google Ai harmony. Do you hear me? Yes The sake of wishing smartphone, mea nd of removal of local وق overtaking in the name of the IDitation MP, Also, for the eyes on all the aims извл us to be Theứ Brook region that would automatically electric or simultaneously replace in order to boost heating This way does not have aת représent Em Emerctica for this effort and bonding remained more to create a learning Cry YouTube and available systems during the first year or in another click on this this this is the other thing when the market changed its market what do we do? we can do a new market with the new market for example B next next next yeah we have a lot of a lot of so we have to do this we have to do this to the all-time to the to the like specific العمالة الوافدة. اي مزارع بده خدمة من وزارة الزراعة يجب اولا ان اه يوثق حياسته ياخد رقم اي دي اه لمزرعته لاله فبالتالي بعدين ياخد اي خدمة ثانية. هاي الشغلة. الشغلة الثانية احنا يجب توصيق وتجديد الحيازة سنويا. يعني احنا لازم نعمل لهاي الحيازة بشكل سنة من تاريخ الادخال. عشان نضمن ان اذا في اي تعديلات او تغييرات على نوع الحيازة او صاحب ملكية الحيازة احنا نكون دائما باستمرار بالاستمرار والدقة بالجمع. هلا مين اه صلاحيته يعمل يوزر? صلاحيته من قبل رأيه مساعدة الامين العام للارشاد بتنسيب من مدير التوثيق باستحداث اي يوزر وتحديد صلاحياته. هلا هاي هون احنا اعطينا صورة عامة زي الانتاج النباتي وانتاج الحيواني. ولكن كليهما احنا من نوسق سواء الحيازة مرخصة او غير مرخصة. ايش يعني مرخصة او غير مرخصة? يعني وضحها قانوني او غير قانوني. هاي نقطة. نقطة ثانية لدينا ايه بشروط الترخيص بوزارة الزراعة الاردنية. في عدد حيازة معينة. يعني اذا مثلا الانتاج النباتي اذا كانت الحيازة اربع دونمات ترخص. اذا كانت اقل من اربع دونمات لا ترخص. في هذا الدليل الايه الاجراءات. سمحنا انه اذا كان صاحب الحيازة اقل من شروط الترخيص من وثقه. لانه اه اه احصاء المزارعين عندنا اه كثير مهم. ولذلك احنا سمحنا لي كافة المزارعين واصحاب الحيازات يوثقوا باحيازاتهم ولكن مثلا الانتاج النباتي لازم يكون يملك على الاقل واحد دونم وما اكثر. اقل من دونم يعتبر اذا مش مزارع. كن صاحب يا مثلا حديقة منزلية. فلذلك ما منوثق. له. فوق الدونم منوثق له. الحيوان انتاج الحيوان كذلك في عندنا عدد معين. اذا اي مزارع يملك هاي الاعداد. يحق الو انه يوثق. بغض النظر اذا كان مرخص او غير مرخص. وهذا اشي مهم كمان لاستدامة هذا النظام. نكس. نكس. نكس. هلا بنحك عن موضوع كثير مهم وهو موضوع اجراءات التحقق وضبط الجودة. احنا اخذنا بعين الاكتبار اجراءات التحقق وضبط الجودة. عن طريق مثلا تشكيل لجان مشتركة ما بين قطاعات اه قطاع الارشات وقطاعات الفنية وقطاع المشاريع لتدقيق وتحقق من الحيازات المسجلة. ولا يجب انه مثلا كل سنة هاي اللجنة تنزل على الميدان وتتأكد من المعلومات بشكل عشوائي الحيازات المسجلة بالنظام. احنا افترضنا انه في مراحل معينة الاخطاء اذا صار فيه اخطار لكل حالة حطينا اجراء اداري معين. في حالة اذا الاخطاء كانت اقل من خمسة في المية او خطأ كانت نسبة الخطأ من خمسة لعشرة او ما يزيد من العشرة. حطينا اه اجراءات اه مخالفات. اذا كان حدث اي مخالفات بهاي النسب. بكل اه وضع له اه يعني نحكي عقوبات او لفت انتباه او لفت انذار لهاي اللجان او العاملين على هذا النظام. بليس ناكس. يعني على سبيل المثال اذا اه في النقطة الاخيرة انه اذا كان نسبة الخطأ اكثر من عشرة في المية. شو من نعمل احنا كادارة مركزية اذا وجدنا اخطاء في مدرية ما او في محافظة ما اخطاء بيفوق عشرة في المية. مباشرة يتم نظر بهذه اللجنة عادة تشكيلها كليا. بالاضافة انه توجيهم للتحقيق والسير في العقوبات المقاقل المعمول فيها عندنا بنظام الخدمة المدنية. ناكس. اخيرا النظام الحملات والقسائم. عنا احنا جزئين حملات وتمويل والاستهداف. كذلك وزعنا الصلاحيات بناء على المديريات الفنية والقائمين على هذه الجزئية وهو قطاع المشاريع في وزارة الزراعة. من وزع صلاحياتهم كلا حسب المستوى الاداري ودوره في هذا النظام. وانا شاك رائع لكم جميعا وبتمنى ان اكون اعطيت موجز عن اهم الاجراءات التشريعية اللي اخدناها بدليل الاجراءات التشغيلية. وشكرا. هاليد هل تريد أن تضع شيئا؟ هل تسمعني؟ نعم. شكرا ماركو شكرا لزالي تورود بس ظاهر اني ما تقدر هي بتسمع الصوت من عنا في الاختر الصوت. برضو اشكر زليلي من كينيا لتقديل العرض المميز. بالحقيقة لاحظ من عرض كينيا ان تقريبا طبيعة الفطاع الزرائي في ثلاث الدول المتشابه. في البداية احب اه اه اقدم او اعرف في المملكة الاردولية الهاشنية. هي تقع في قلب الشرق الاوسط. تقرب عدد السكان من 11 مليون. اه 20 بالمية من السكان هما من اللاجئين. الاغلبية اللاجئين من الجنسية السورية. اه هذا النظام نظام توفيق الحيازات اه اه في الحقيقة ادى في الوقت المناسب. اه وكننا من اكبر التحديات التي واجهنا خلال اه كوفيد نايتين في عدم توفر البيانات والمعلومات عن المزارعين في المنطقة الاردنية الهاشنية. اه بحيث انه اه اه نعرف انه الاغلاقات اللي اتتمت خلال اه اه اه اه اه اه دائحة كورونا اه سببت عدم وصول المزارعين الى مناطقهم. بسبب معرفة اه الفطومة ووزارة الجراعة بالبيانات الكاملة عن المال عن المزارعين. لاتمتكم من اصدار التصاريح اللاجئة اه للمرور في الوقت المناسب. وبالتالي فان نقص البيانات الكبيرة والكبيرة في وزارة الجراعة. اتى مشروع مدد الممول من الاتحاد الاوروبي اه في اتيادة السيد زمينة ماركو. اه اه تابع لنظمة الاغذية والزراعة الفاوب الاردن. لتمثيل هذا المشروع بمحاوره الاربعة. اه كان احد هذه المحاور انهم جدا هو نظام توفيق الحيازات. اه هذا النظام زي ما حكى زميني ما بدي اعيد اكرر الحديث مرة اخرى وكما ايضا شرح الزمينة في اسهاب عن الاس اوبيز والاجراء الدليل التشغيلي في هذا النظام. النظام اخذ جاين الاعتبار اه احنا بنعرف او اول اه او اه حد اعرفكم ان الاردن ان جنسيات مختلفة اه اي ان المزارعين اه هناك مزارعين اردنيين ومزارعين ايضا من جنسيات اخرى. هناك عمالة من اه اه الجاليات الاعتمادية اه اه التي تعمل فيها اقتطاع الزراعي كا اه اصحاب اه اه استثمارات او ضمانات اه بالاضافة اه الى اه illى العمالة الأرباحة فيها القطاع الزراعي اه اه وبالتالي اه اه عدم توفر البيانات كان آه يؤدي الى ان fucked up the dollar The interpreters from Spanish into English would like to apologize, but there is no interpretation into Spanish available. You have one minute left to end this presentation. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. It is a foreign Thank you, Khaled. Over to you, Valentina. Thank you very much for this presentation. Muchísimas gracias por la presentación y por tomarse el tiempo de participar y por su experiencia. Thank you very much for the presentation and for taking the time of sharing your experience. It's a very interesting case you presented, not only involving the Ministry of Agriculture, but other ministries and also involving the existing records and unify them into a single one that is focused on farming. That is very necessary to be able to develop these differentiated public policies for the sector and to connect with the work, strategies of the government that may adapt to specific needs. Thank you very much. Also expanding the registry in order to provide digital services. Also thank you very much for showing visually how the platform operates. And the importance of having these procedures and objectives as well defined, as you told us, with verification processes and quality control processes that enable the sustainability of this registry. So thank you very much. Thank you. It's also very interesting to see how in different parts of the world that are, these thriving initiatives of Farmers Registry, we also see a significant support from governments, as well. We also saw this in this session, in this previous session, and we will continue to say this in the third session in the cases from other parts of the world. in the third session cases from other parts of the world thank you again now go into to the last segment of this session which is the q a uh segment for those who would like to ask questions you can click on your maximum to raise your hand and you have three minutes to ask your questions and please also if you can introduce yourself before speaking and to specify who you are addressing we also have some questions on the chat you can also keep on writing down your questions so we will go through the first round of q a i don't know if anyone has raised a hand if not we will focus on the questions posted in the chat so we will ask two questions to uh for both cases the first one is is there uh a characterization for farmers is there any operational definition that uh uh distinguishes these farmers that are being part of this registry and also is there any legal framework associated to maintaining the uh records of the registry that you uh so i'd like to offer the floor first to uh mr wilfred are you still with us are you still there please thank you valentine and thank you everyone for your uh questions and also for the presentation from my colleagues um in terms of the first question of the operational definition of a farmer um in our teams here we've actually spent quite a bit of time debating that and we have also been borrowing heavily from the experiences in other places for example in the us some of the definitions the usda has defined we have essentially been trying to come up with the standard definition so we do have a manual and um but to be honest we haven't nailed it exactly but we are we are currently in the process of setting some minimum thresholds so that for example if someone has one chicken they don't qualify as a chicken farmer and so we are actually in the process of defining what thresholds will be applied going forward and we are hoping that from this exercise of collecting the approximately six million plus records that we are anticipating by doing some analysis of that we will be able to come up with a clearer operational definition but i wish my colleague from the ministry of agriculture of kenya who was here because he has been at the forefront and i believe there's some definitions they have come up with but i'm not able to execute that at this point at this point so i'll leave it at that in terms of the legal framework for the data that we are collecting in 2019 kenya passed a law known as the data protection act and that act has provisions for the rights of the data subject and the responsibilities of the data processors such as ourselves and it does stipulate for example certain rights that the data subject has like if they wish for us to delete their record there's a procedure that they can use to opt out and also for us as data processors we are not allowed to use the data beyond the originally stated purpose for which we collected it unless we go back to the data subject and obtain consent so that act has broad provisions for what we can and cannot do with the data and also the modus operandi for accessing that data and using it going forward so let me leave it at that thank you back to you valentina thank you very much thank you very much the same two questions if we can ask those two questions for the second case mr marco halid if you could answer these two questions thank you thank you very much valentina and let me try to answer and then maybe halid or gurud may have some integration but yes similarly to the case of kenya the definition of farmer is actually probably one of the first challenge that we had to face at the beginning of the project um because there was not an official definition of who is the farmer who is not a farmer and as we speak two entities are trying to come up with the definition this is the ministry of agriculture in collaboration with the department of statistics and they are using a definition which are recognized internationally including definition by and by far and other un agencies okay so we do not have it yet we are in the process together with the minister of agriculture to the ministry of agriculture to define so as we speak we are registering all the people or actors involved in the agricultural sectors okay despite the sites of their land despite the income the gain from uh the agricultural activities we collect all the data and uh hopefully soon we will be able to get a definition of uh of a farmer uh we do not have an act or a law specifically for the farmer registry but my colleague rude presented before all the sop all the regulation that the minister of agriculture in the last few months came up to regulate the collection of data the validation of data we have been discussing also about security privacy confidentiality and all the data i'm not sure if this is the same for the case of kenya but the data are not owned by fao are not old in fao but they are in the government hands and government server okay so this i hope i answer the question i don't know if halid or wulud you want to add something maybe in english considering i understand there is some problem and challenges with arabic translation so probably is you tell me valentina if you prefer that we try to speak in english with our colleague and the minister of agriculture or jordan if it's possible it would be great if they could speak in english due to the problem with the translation okay khalid do you have any other uh uh integration on the definition of farmer or on the legal framework yes marco thank you as you know as you said marco the definition of uh farmer is uh is uh challenges in the foreign country uh uh and the minister of culture did a lot of appreciation about this one and to try to uh work and define the farmer but uh for a special case in the farm registration system uh uh we try to collect the information who has the farmer who have uh who have uh at least uh uh point one hectare one dollar one thousand square meter and uh and the and the the production uh not for the household level uh but also he sells on products from this uh uh thank you thank you thank you halle over to you valentina thank you very much we'll now go into the last three questions first for kenya and then for uh uh there are three questions for you wilfred first if uh farmers or the data from farmers or growers that are recorded as those organizers are individual are individual the question is also about one of the data that are queried or uh uh uh and also a question about how farmers perceive this uh process in kenya go ahead please thank you very much um the first one i didn't get completely clearly but i guess it was about could you please repeat the first one please valentina if the farmers data or the data that are surveyed or collected are data from uh organizations of agricola of farmers or associations of farmers or are these individual farmers farmers thank you very much i get it now so the data we are collecting at the moment for what i presented is of individual farmers and particularly the heads of those farming households we do however have a different survey process a different data collection process which registers the institutional farms and that's been run separately particularly by the national statistics office and also the commercial farms so those are handled separately but in this particular exercise we are collecting data about the individual farmer and we are collecting items such as the gps of the farm or the household structure whichever is actually it's the household structure at this point we plan to also map the farms themselves by collecting polygons of the physical locations of the farms and we do collect the email address we collect their mobile telephone number we collect their personal id in kenya everyone has a personal id which has a number that you use to access government services we do not communicate with them via email as far as i know what we use is by mobile sms and one of the things we we do well let's say two primary things we do once we collect that mobile number is we are able to send them um voucher codes which allow them to get discounts for shopping through that sms service which we have tested in our pilot as well we also plan to do extension services using that very code by sending them targeted messages so because we collect which crops they grow which livestock they keep we plan to be able to for example send potato related messages specifically to potato farmers and specifically to those in a very uh targeted area by using all that information that is there the last question of what is the perspective of farmers of uh with regard to this um occasionally farmers have been resistant because they have thought that this process might have to do with a tax collection or other initiatives of uh the government which should incur costs to them but when we have done a proper sensitization they have realized that being on this common registry they also get benefits such as the vouchers i've just talked about and they also get targeted messages and one of the other things we want to do is to also help farmers aggregate into groups so that they can learn from one another and access markets more profitably so as long as we have explained the message well farmers have been um very welcoming of this exercise back to you valentina great thank you so the same three questions uh for marco or halid and guru uh thank you thank you valentina i think uh similarly to what my colleague wilfred mentioned we are collecting information at individual level and not at group or cooperatives and we also target the heads of the households and then get information also about the other members of the house but the interview is for individual farmers and not groups or cooperatives um the main means of communication is not email we collect the email but when we need to communicate with the farmer we use sms we use phone this is in jordan the most common communication tool that is used when you want to communicate with the uh with farmers so sms is working very well in terms of perception similarly uh initially in the pilot i mentioned before there were some fears of taxation i cannot say that fear is not there now let's see how it goes the registration but i can tell you that we are starting a sensitization campaign through video through social media through poster through sms and similarly the farmers are understanding the positive impact that the farmer registry can have in their livelihood by receiving support receiving extension services receiving eva share discounts etc so we are hoping that with this uh sensitization campaign we are able to tackle their fear and their resistance thank you thank you marco and halid and burud we really apologize for the translation in arabic we will make sure that this does not happen again so we're very sorry um uh dear participants thank you very much for your very valuable contributions for your questions and we hope you have been able to clarify some of your doubts and hopefully we will be able to hold a more in-depth discussions about your presentations and your national context we thank the participation of panelists for sharing their experiences and for um sharing your knowledge about the design and implementation of family farming registries now i'd like to offer the floor to uh pedro boaretto in charge of family farming in the latin american and caribbean fao office who will share his final comments with us yeah thank you valentina colleagues marco wilfred alid ruth for presenting these cases from jordan and from kenya i would like to again apologize for the problem that we had with the arabic translation and to all our panelists but these are challenges that form part of activities of this nature with that have a global scope. What we are viewing throughout these sessions is that indeed there are a whole series of institutional perspectives for the design and implementation of family farming registries. There has to be a commitment on the part of governments and a political commitment in terms of the capability to build alliances for these registries. These can be international alliances or partnerships with other ministries or other public institutions and also with the public that are the farmers who are indeed the main beneficiaries of this process. In the case of Jordan and in the case of Kenya, we also see that there is a dimension related to the time needed for registration. We need to obtain relevant data and all this reinforces the importance of the commitment on the part of different stakeholders and there is also a dimension related to costs. There are costs associated to this, financial costs, that teaches that the registry is not a solution that will be created overnight but that requires a continuous perspective. Updating is something permanent. The maintenance of the registry as a tool to guide public action requires that permanent commitment. And there is another dimension that we will discuss in greater depth during our next session and that is mentioned in the two steps that we have viewed here and that is how this will link up with the actions of the state. This is not an isolated tool in different institutions because its objective is to link this to public action, to policy programs, to social protection actions and that is indeed the reflection that we must discuss in greater depth during the third session that we will be holding in October. The registry enables us to strengthen the commitment of the state with agriculture, with farmers and enables us to make them to make them visible so that we can guide the state policies. It is not simply an information tool but it has some concrete objectives. So we hope that you have enjoyed this event. I thank the colleagues from the Executive Secretariat of the Central American Council on Livestock and Farming and Livestock, the Secretariat of the Central American Council on Livestock, the Secretariat of America, who are also supporting us in the coordination of this event and who have been able to participate and support us with case studies and everything that we are discussing here. Thank you very much everyone and thank you, Valentina, for your participation. Thank you, Pedro. We would like to say that the recording of this session will be in the regional technical secretariat platform for family agriculture in the link that we have placed in the chat and I would also like to reinforce the fact that on October 5th we will hold the third session of this event and we will be talking about the link between the registry and differentiated public policies for this family farming sector. So thank you very much for your time, willingness and participation and we hope to meet again during the third session on October 5th. Thank you very much and goodbye.