How Much Land Do You Need To Be Self-Sustaining?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SswoNQDycxQ
People & Blogs
 How much land do you need to be sustainable? Hey everybody, Chad Kruiser here with Health and Homestead. If you want to learn more about homesteading and a healthy lifestyle, hit the subscribe button. Now, if you want to be truly self-sustaining, how much land do you need? Well, here's the thing. To be truly self-sustaining, almost nobody really does that. That would be like you never buy a shovel, you never buy any kind of equipment at all, but you're really wondering, not exactly, most people are not thinking 100% self-sufficient, but in order to maybe raise your own provisions, raise your own food, and to be able to get enough wood to heat your house if you live in a region that needs to be heated. And so these are the things we're going to talk about. How much land do you need? Now, someone could give a very pat, a very simple answer that wouldn't be accurate in certain circumstances. Now, we want to talk about if you live in a complete desert area, it takes a lot more land to maybe get the firewood that you would need and to be able to grow your own food. You're going to need more land because if you don't have a lot of water source, unless you do have, you know, a spring or a river that you can legally use or a creek that you can legally use, you're going to, you know, try to allow the rain, the little bit of rain that you're going to get to give you the food. And in an area like that, you're going to need more land to plant the food that's going to sustain you. So we're going to get to some details on these things in just a moment. But the point is, is that you need to look for your area, how much land will you need? But this will at least give you a basis for how much land, how much property you might need to be generally self-sustaining. So let's talk about one aspect. And one aspect is if you do heat. Now, if you live in a tropical region where you don't need to heat and you just, you have several trees on the property or some brush and you can burn those things to, to heat your food, you're not going to need a large area to get the firewood to sustain you and your family. But if you live in a region like I do, where we have half the year is really cold and you're going to need something to actually warm you. And wood heating is really the best option. You think, man, I just, I just want to use solar power. Well, people don't really heat their houses with solar power. Solar power is something that you can use to maybe run your appliances if you, if you have enough solar panels, or you can use it to, you know, keep your lights going or your computer or what have you. But it's not something that is generally used. You would have to have a ridiculous amount of panels to actually heat your house. So when it comes down to heating, really firewood is going to be your best option. And now, once again, like I said, if you live way out in the desert and the trees are very sporadic, you're going to have to, you know, increase the number of acres there. But if you're living in a region that probably has a standard kind of like the eastern half of the United States and many of the portions of the western United States, maybe in the mountains or in the northern regions where they get enough rain, then you're probably going to want somewhere around five acres of timber. And if you have those five acres of timber and you're not in the desert, you're in general, you're going to have enough trees growing all the time that if you're harvesting some of the dead trees, or if you for whatever reason don't have any dead trees, you're going to have to harvest some of your trees. And if you have five acres, there's generally going to be enough of them that are going, you're going to just be able to cycle through that you will never, ever, ever run out of trees unless there was a forest fire. If that happens, well, all bets are off in that situation. But one of the other things to consider is you can have a much smaller property if you want to, if you want to be self-sustaining, but you're not being totally self-sustaining off your property. Many regions of at least the United States, you can for a very nominal fee, maybe some areas free, I'm not sure, but some areas it's a very nominal fee, you pay a little bit of money to go into the state lands, the forested areas, and you can actually harvest downed trees or dead trees, and you could use that. So if you don't have five acres of standing timber on your property that's growing, you still may be able to get that wood for a very low price. Obviously, there's a lot of sweat equity in it. But if you're looking to be a homesteader, probably some sweat equity is just something you are planning on. So if you're living in a standard region of North America that gets plenty of rain, or doesn't have to have a ridiculous amount of rain, but enough rain, five acres might be something to consider just in timber. Now, that begs the question, okay, how about to raise food? Now, this one also, there's many different variables that you have to consider. Number one, what is your diet like? Are you a standard American diet kind of individual based upon animal products and some plant foods? If that's the case, you're going to need much more land to be self-sufficient as compared to somebody who's on a plant-based diet. I myself personally have been on a plant-based diet for 20 years, I guess, at this point. And if, depending on what, just to give you an example, one cow takes about 1.8 acres. I know some of you are thinking, that's no way, I've been to feedlots and I've seen like hundreds of cows per acre. That's true. If, if animals are crushed together and you can, you can crush them all together and you can, you know, bring in food from the outside and you can just crush them all together and you can raise them that way. But that's not even close to sustainable. If we're talking about sustainability, sustainability, true sustainability is to have the resources, the natural resources that you need and even your animals would need to feed them. And so if you were looking to just feed a cow off of the land that you had. So for instance, whether you were a standard meat eater or whether you were a vegetarian who drank milk and you're wanting to get the milk from the cow, you're going to need 1.8 acres roughly. This is from the USDA. This is sourced by the USDA. And what that means is now, if you're, once again, you're in the desert, you're going to need more land than that. But if you're in an area that has a reasonable amount of rainfall, that's about the area of land that a cow would need to exist. It needs to eat. We're not talking about, yes, you could go buy the food. Obviously the standard way is to use grain, but if you want true, if you're doing grass fed animals, you'd need about 1.8 acres per cow. And then if you were to, you know, want to have them have babies. Now, once again, I'm totally plant-based, so I'm not, I'm not suggesting that you do this. I'm just talking about the reality. If you're looking to live off the land, you need a significant amount of acreage as in, you know, eating a standard meat-based diet. But on the other hand, if you are on a plant-based diet like I am, what would you need? Now, this also depends. Once again, desert areas, large area, give you an example that in deserts, some of the Indians, maybe like the Hopi Indians, what they would do is actually, they would plant one stalk of corn every three feet. Now, you may notice if you drive by a corn field, they probably have one stalk every, you know, six inches, and obviously in row, and then the, you know, they space them a little bit further apart. But in the row, it's roughly six inches. So they're talking three feet because they need to get the rain. So I'm going, I don't want to go on too long about this, but in the desert, you're going to need way more than I'm talking about here. But, and I'll go into detail in a future video about how much land you might need to grow enough food per person. But many people say, well, you could, you could grow all the food you need in like 600 square feet. Yeah, I don't think so. I mean, unless, unless you have some incredible situation, you might be able to grow most of your vegetables. But when I say vegetables, you're thinking like grain, no way. There's just no way on earth or growing all the potatoes that you need to eat. You're not going to be able to do it in such a small space. So per person, you're probably going to want a minimum of an acre. And I know some people are thinking, no, we grow all kinds of stuff in a very small area. But grains, you don't have to eat grains, but grains are one of the main sources of calories. And so things like potatoes and grains are some of the most important things to get enough calories. And this is just an idea. This is not exact. We could get into more details and depending on where you are or, or the kind of growing method that you actually use. Most people, they're not thinking it through when it comes to grains. They're really just talking about growing enough veggies. And many people say, oh, I grow a little garden and I eat off that the whole year. Most people really don't because most of your calories do not come from tomatoes and cucumbers and these kinds of things. You just can't get enough calories off of things like tomatoes and cucumbers. You could, but you'd be eating like 27 pounds of cucumbers a day. Now, nobody's going to do that, but you get the idea. So you need certain foods that are high calorie foods to sustain you. So what you need is you need maybe five acres and at least another acre or two. But like I said, if you live in an area or you're able where you don't need to get firewood, you really could get buy off an acre, two acre, three acres, depending on how small your family is. You could get a very small piece of ground or relatively small piece of ground, I should say. And you could, you could be self-sustaining if you don't need the outside input of heating. So this gives you an idea, but there's one other factor that some people are looking for. Some people want to be in an area where they don't see their neighbor. So they want to be far enough out that they can't see their neighbors. Well, if you're in a, if you're in open fields, they'd have to be miles away. But if you're totally in the forest, you're enclosed by the trees around you, how much land would it take there? Well, it depends. If you're in total pines, you wouldn't need a very big space. I mean, a few pines, some of the thick enough pine trees or the conifers, you can just have a few trees stacked up in front of your house and it'll block your neighbors completely. Now, if you're going to plant those, it's going to take many years to actually block the neighbor's view. But in a standard deciduous forest, you know, 10 acres at, in the winter, you might be seeing your neighbor, 20 acres, you know, maybe not, maybe, you know, if you're a dead center and a 40 acre square, you're pretty much going to be totally secluded at that point. If you're staggered, like if your neighbors, if you have 20 acres and you kind of have a longer 20, 20 acre parcel and your neighbors are at the front and you're at the back of it, you're going to be pretty much secluded at that point, unless you have another, you know, neighbor behind you. So this just gives you an idea. I'm not saying what you have to do. I'm just giving you a picture of what it might be like. And you have to check the region you're in to give you a better idea of how it will be in the area that you're looking to move to, or if you're just looking to move further out of the city that you live in right now. So somewhere between a few, just a few acres, really, you could probably get close to just buying one acre and growing your own food if you're not looking for a heating source. But a few acres would be even better to really try to be self-sustaining. But if you're looking to have enough wood and so forth, probably you're looking at minimum six, seven, eight acres. And if you're looking for seclusion, you're looking for probably closer to 10 to 20 to 40 acres to be in real seclusion. But hey, it's just what you're looking for. So what are you looking for? If you have any statements, anything you'd like to add or anything you'd like to share, please share it down in the comments. And if you like this video, do please hit the subscribe button. God bless and have a fantastic day.