My First Western Australia Grain Harvest
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SvVpNx2bCGo
People & Blogs
 Hey guys it's CJ here and welcome back to my channel. I'm so proud to introduce Base Fabrications of Western Australia as a primary partner powering the production of this episode. As a manufacturer of the trailers that I towed during harvest I want to thank the team at Base. Your support helps bring the content like this to life and I hope you enjoy the footage. Thank you so much. From October until the end of December I was in a place called Mingenew. Mingenew is based in the Midwest Wheatbelt of Western Australia and it was really a great opportunity to explore a different area of trucking that I haven't done before. I grew up on a cherry orchard in Adelaide Hills so my background is farming and I actually went to an agricultural high school in Adelaide called Erbrae and while at that school a lot of my friends were actually cropping farmers from the York Peninsula, Air Peninsula and other regions. So I for years have wanted to do a harvest but working full-time for other employers getting time off during that period heading up to Christmas was just not going to happen. So to be able to find a job that allowed me to tick off the farming side of things, experience a harvest and get paid and drive this incredible vehicle here was just a dream come true really. So to give you a little rundown this here is the truck that I was allocated for the season and I feel incredibly lucky for that. So this is Oddball. Oddball is a brand new Kenworth 659 Twin Sears. When I first came across this truck I was like you know what I don't like the look of it. It wasn't the usual model that I am attracted to. Which now it just feels stupid admitting that because who am I to judge that? I had never driven one. How am I going to know how this handles? But I guess I was just kind of listening to the feedback from people around me saying you know double steer axles are gonna fill every bump twice. You're gonna get bogged in paddocks and to be honest that is completely not true. This has been a real dream to drive. I honestly can't fault it. Actually there's a couple of things. So let's be honest. I didn't like that the steps are in between the two wheels climbing in and out of this truck has been very difficult. Like it's just it's just a pain in the ass really. But other than climbing in and out and sleeping in it it doesn't have like it's a 36 inch bunk so it doesn't have the cupboards and the big living area but honestly I didn't live in it for that long so it didn't really matter. But otherwise it handled all the bumps. It handled the roads really well. Coming out of paddocks. Turning sharp out of paddocks. Inside the paddocks. I never got bogged. It was just really fantastic. So that's the truck. Twin Steers 659 Kenworth. On the back we have a base fabrication BA triple road train. This has been a really cool combination. We have automatic tarps which was such a blessing. I have an app on my phone that I could use or I had remote controls. And then I also had scales. The minute I got put in oddball it was all steam ahead. I didn't have any time to kind of get to know it or like play around. It was just like all right all of a sudden the crops are ready CJ go. So I was able to sink on my feet really quickly and get it done. So yeah it's been great. And also it kept me fit. Like honestly I haven't been this fit in so long. I was running back and forth up and down up and down the ladders. Moving the truck forward running back. So it kind of was probably good because otherwise I could get lazy and sitting in the truck. So some statistics for you. This combination empty with no weight in it at all weighs in about 36.5 tonne and my fully loaded gross weight like capacity. So what I was legally permitted to take gross weight over the weighbridge I could be 123.5 tonne. And yeah quite often I was able to get up to that. The only grain that was a struggle to get to that was canola because canola weighs so light but we in Lupins we were able to get those weights pretty well. So I was just looking today at the app. CBH has this fantastic app system. So every load that we did we opened the app. We'd say who we were hauling for like what the farmer's name was, the paddock that we were hauling from and what and as soon as you put that in it automatically was auto generated so they knew exactly what kind of grain was coming out of that paddock and what grade they were expecting and all of that. So you just go into the CBH CDF app and you say hey I'm at this farm I'm hauling from this paddock I'll be at say Minganue in the next 60 to 90 minutes or 30 to 60 minutes submit and then instantly CBH at Minganue knew that I was on my way. As soon as I came into the geofence the app would pick up that we had arrived. It then would say sampling you'd go underneath the sample hut the girls would put and I'm saying girls because it pretty much I think there was only one dude I came across otherwise it was all women there which was really cool. All CBH staff were lovely and I really really enjoyed going in there and dealing with them. So they would put a spear into the back of our trailers we'd open up our tarps they'd put a spear in and sample our grain instantly and that would give us a grade. Once that grade came through we'd accept it then we'd go through to the weigh bridge and the weights would come through we'd accept the weights we'd go tip off and then we'd come around onto the weigh bridge again way out and then instantly as soon as we were sampled the farmer would get notified in the header what the grade of like grain was and he would know if he needed to change anything on his header out there. So I was having a look at the app earlier about trying to figure out when my very first load was so on the 30th of October 2024 I had my very first load in Oddball and my very last load was just on the 7th of January because I there was a farmer just locally that needed a little bit of extra help. So within that period of time I did some calculations today Oddball and myself did 6,728.94 tonnes. That was a combination of wheat, canola and lupins. That's pretty impressive and something I'm incredibly proud of. What are the requirements to join this company? So you need to have an MC unrestricted licence. Our trucks do have manual gearboxes some like Oddball here is automatic but most of them are manual so you'll need an unrestricted MC with some experience. I guess like for the grain and bulk haulage I like the fact that we can live in the truck and we can personalise it so I had all my own stuff in there, my own bedding, I had my box underneath in the middle full of all of my bits and pieces so I felt really at home in this truck with the mines. We're hot seating all the time, we're jumping in and out with other drivers so we don't have the ability to have our creature comforts in them. You know everything's just different. This one we can keep nice and clean, you can keep the inside quite clean whereas the mines, you know, you're in and out of them a lot, dust gets pulled in on them a lot. But the big Tribe Drive 509s are just like such an impressive vehicle to operate so I think every machine is designed for its spec pros and cons to everything but this is really nice for this kind of work. This would not suit obviously out in the mines. There were some really really cool trucks that had so much character and you know that they'd have such a story and it wasn't just the trucks it was actually the tractors like the the old tractors that were out there in the field bins. So many beautiful old tractors that come out at harvest time they get put onto the field bins to run the PTO to run them to for us to fill up and that was like probably one of my highlights seeing all the old equipment like just standing the test of time. Doing FIFO you have the work-life balance of when you're at work you only do 12 hour shifts and that's for two weeks and then you get to go home and have a full week off. Me personally I get two weeks off but you have that work-life balance. When you're doing grain there really is no time off you are there and you are hauling week in week out until the season's finished. Yes we get our fatigue day off and so your day off is going getting your supermarket supplies going home prepping whereas when you're on the mine site you are fed for free your accommodation's free you only work 12 hour shifts and you get to go home for at least a week at a time so at least at the mine you get the work-life balance of getting to go home every three weeks. Here we don't know when we're going home we don't we don't know when the season will finish so you are just hauling every single week until all of a sudden you get the message. When I work in a mine site the mechanics do that the mechanics regularly service the trucks but doing harvest it was our responsibility to keep on top of greasing and they asked us to do that every week. It's a job I thought I'd really enjoy and turns out I do not enjoy that at all. Oh no! It's never lost on me the how lucky I am to be able to drive such beautiful vehicles new equipment you know I'm 34 years old and I have been driving for I think this is my ninth year. Some people drive their whole careers and never get the opportunity to drive something as new and modern as this so it's never lost on me how absolutely like privileged I am. I want to thank the company I work for for entrusting me in driving something like this so every day you know I get to drive a vehicle worth over a million dollars down the road. Not many people in the general society can say that so I'm lucky I'm blessed to earn a good income I'm setting myself up I'm creating a legacy for myself I get to drive such a beautiful vehicle and I'm going to go and finish emptying this truck out which is a bit emotional give the keys back go and reflect a little bit more but thank you for watching this I hope I've answered your questions if there's anything I've missed please chuck your questions in the comments and I'll try my best to answer it thanks for coming along for the journey I hope that you've enjoyed it I hope I've given you a bit more insight and have a good one guys brought into it to you and at