Selective Breeding - GCSE Biology (9-1)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=swkkHMsQEus
Education
 So what is selective breeding? Well selective breeding is when you choose two organisms with certain desirable characteristics and breed them together. It's very very simple. If you do that, the chances are that the offspring are going to inherit those desired characteristics. You're definitely increasing your chances of that happening. Now this has been done by farmers with both plants and animals for hundreds of years. It is not a new thing in science. However, we now have more advanced techniques that make the process even better and more efficient. So an example may be that a farmer may want to get dairy cows to produce lots and lots of milk, because then he'll get more milk in a given time, bigger yield, more profit. Therefore, they will select Friesian cows and breed with those over lots of generations, rather than something like Hereford or Jersey, which may have other characteristics, but not the large milk quantity that that farmer wants. Now if you select the best offspring and then breed from them, and then breed from them, and then you continue that for many generations, you will get a breed that is very specialized for one particular trait, and in this case that would be milk yield. Animals are selectively bred for many reasons, such as high yield, but that could be meat, milk, eggs, and chickens. Maybe you want them to produce more offspring. Maybe you want them to produce better quality skin, fur or wool. Maybe you want them to be better resistant to diseases and pests. Or maybe it's for sport, like greyhounds or horses, you want them to run faster. Maybe you want them to reach maturity quicker, and they just get bigger quicker, so you can sell them on quicker, like chickens. So there's loads of reasons why you would selectively breed animals. How is it done? It's very, very simple. I've already described it in simple terms, but essentially what you do is you get animals with the desired characteristics. You breed them together, you then select which offspring inherited the characteristics you want, and you breed from them again. And you keep that going for many generations. Now, as I said, modern technology has improved the way this works. Usually it's now done by artificial insemination. So one bull semen, which they know has got the exact characteristics they want, could impregnate many cows, and therefore you can do it on a much bigger scale. It's much safer and much easier to do it that way. Now plants can also be selectively bred. You might want to breed them for a high yield, lots of edible plant, big fruits. You might want to make plants more resistant to disease or pests. You might want them so that they don't snap in the wind so much. You might want them to be resistant to drought, flooding, or frost. You might want them to be more nutritious, have a better flavor, or have a longer shelf life. Selective breeding and plants is a similar concept. You've just got to understand a bit more about how plants reproduce, but essentially you do the same thing. You take plants with the desired characteristics. You crossbreed them. You take pollen from one plant and place it on the stigma of the other plant. The seeds are then collected. You germinate the seeds and let them all grow. Then you pick the ones that inherited the characteristics and you crossbreed them again. And you repeat the process over many generations until a new variety is produced which has all the desired characteristics that you want. Why not have a go at these 10 multiple choice questions to see if you really understand selective breeding? What to make of these 10 with these 10 different sample passages of Dplay