How to milk a cow
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sXbcNlX3kTQ
Science & Technology
 Hi I'm Wayne this is Emily and we're just going to show you how to milk a cow. We've been out here about seven years and we're really bad when we started. We're not experts so I'd love it if you know more than us you could put in the comments some tips on how to milk but basically we're going to give it a go. We've got some green clover here because she loves that as a treat and a bit of loosened for after we're finished. So we'll give her a little treat before she starts just to make sure she comes up and is ready for the milking so we don't have to go and get her. Hello Jet Fighter how are you today hey? How are you? I just put this rope around her neck as a way of saying, Oi sit Swampy sit Phoebe. Not good having the dog's too close. Swampy back go back sit good boy sit. So this rope is just the way of saying to her when you've got this rope around your neck stand still don't move. I'm trying to train her. Can you move back a bit Lauren because she's interested in you that's better. Beautiful. What's this camera? You like the camera do you Jet Fighter? So the first little bit's just relaxing us so give her a little scratch and rub down with a brush but the dog's got our brush a couple of days ago so we don't have it. And you want to milk or hold her? You hold it today? In the past I've tied this to a star post and that keeps her still. But I'm trying to train Jet Fighter to stand still with no posts so that we can just milk her without tying her up so she hasn't learned it yet but that's the aim. When you're giving her a rub down it's good to give her a rub under her tummy and down near her udder just so that she starts getting used to it. So she had her first calf just there about two weeks ago so she hasn't been milked before two weeks so she's still learning. When you first start to milk her don't just go and grab the teat because I think they're a little bit ticklish so if I just go and grab the teat from nowhere well she's not going to do it she might kick. So don't just do that sort of work your way around make it feel comfortable and then down to it is a better way when you're starting. We don't let her eat at all from the grass while we're milking just as a way of um so she doesn't move around and she loves a big scratch around her ears and on a hairy bit. All this is just part of relaxing her and if she gets the point of chewing her cud she's really relaxed that's good. Okay jet fighter I'm gonna milk you now. Thank you. So first thing is this is fairly warm water. Actually this is a bit too warm today. I'm just gonna wipe her udder and teeth clean. Thank you jet fighter. This is just in case there's any dirt she's been sleeping on it. Oh hey jet fighter see how she flicked me before she kicks with her foot. That's just the flicks the way of saying hey I don't like that. You gotta listen to her tail flicks. See how there's just a bit of a bit of gut comes off there. I like to give it a good a good clean because we don't pasteurize the milk we just drink it raw. So you want this all nice and clean. So no hip bits of hair and things fall in. Great good girl. Next thing as I dry it off dry my hands just with another old nappy. Good girl jet fighter. Right now people use various things on the teats to moisturize them. We use some coconut oil. So the coconut oil has been sitting in the hot water that that melts it and I just put a bit on each teat. So coconut oil is also a mild anti-fungal antibacterial kind of thing so it does stop infections a little bit so it's really good. Also the first thing and I do it now before I get the bucket is that first bit of milk in each teat you just squirt out onto the ground because if there are any bits of bacteria or yuck sitting in the end of the teat you don't want that in your milk. So a couple of squirts from each teat. I'm a bit of a I like to do this too. I do a couple of squirts in the bucket give a little rinse out. Don't have to do that. This bucket's been sterilized with boiling water and then we start milking. So bucket there. What she may do is try and put this foot forward and if she does it'll kick that bucket. So I'm ready to grab the bucket and hold her foot if she does do that. And Emily's going to sing because she loves singing. All the cows love singing and they relax more. So you're going to sing there Emily? Yeah. Beautiful. And so there's two ways of milking. One is you grab the top and then squeeze it out like that. But I, the other way is just stripping it. And because her teats are short I think stripping's better. So, what you don't want is the milk from here getting pushed back up into the udder. So the worst thing is just squeezing it because if you squeeze it you might be actually pushing the milk up way through a one-way valve. And plus if there's any bacteria in the right, in the end of the teat, you might be pushing that up into the really clean udder. So you always go down. That's why when you're starting stripping it's almost impossible to go backwards when you're stripping. Whereas if you're doing this way, if you haven't gripped it hard enough there and then you squeeze this one, it might squeeze it back up. So if you're starting the stripping's good. As I'm starting I'm just like I'll do the front two teats. I'll try the back teat there and the other back teat. Right, so I'm feeling that these front two feel fairly empty. So they're the ones the calf probably drank off. This back one's really full. So I'm going to make sure that I'm always milking from that back one because it's going to Right, and then you just milk. How's she going up there Emily? She's chewing a cud. Not yet, but she's getting there. Some little tips, I think they like it if you go in with your head like this and just rest on them. Don't know why. I find the most comfortable way to sit is just crouching like this actually but some people like a stool. I think I'm just going to close my elbow and just sniff initially and we get out of bed. A little calf over there having a nibble on the leeson. Oh, the teats don't all squirt down. So if I just squirt this one, it sort of goes back. So that means I have to sort of point it down. So if I pull it this way, it'll point down. This teat, it does pretty right direction. This back teat, it's going to squirt way out there. So I have to pull it this way as I'm milking so that it goes into the bucket. So you just sort of, if the teat's squirting that way, you milk it this way. See, so the bottom's facing the right way. You work that out. Now if you have little tips for me, I'd love it because we've only learnt out of books and from YouTube. I do not realize that A royal a sau lo誇啊 is routes to make the egg ребен dreamplays. That's what I'm about. It always looks really prepared for me just to fliego. The king should go wonder if the father was chosen because... He finds out she's brought alive at the beginning of the year. It has been his innings and nothingesse to haul through. It's données to be seen as sustainable as possible. Looks so quick, very gorgeous. I need to say to 4 years this time, because she'll close out to me, it will not just start there for 5 yards, if she'll crush me normally, but it willness you. I don't know. There you go Jet Potter. This is lovely today. Hello. How you doing? How are you today Jet Potter? This is lovely milk. She's staying pretty still today. Sometimes you can feel her weight shift forward which means she's going to take a step which isn't good and you've got to be ready to move the bucket. See that there? How I had to move the bucket away and keep her leg back. No Jet fighter that's not very nice. Okay. No kicking please. When she does kick I try and go back to milking in exactly the same way that I was on the same teats just so that she learns if she kicks she doesn't get any change. Otherwise she'll get trained to kick to teach me to move. So whatever I was doing when she kicked unless it was particularly hurting her I'd go straight back to doing it. So what's that flip about? So see the milk there that's about? What are you doing there Jet fighter? No flicking please. About a quarter of a bucket so far so we're a quarter of the way through. So I wanted to leave some." I'm going to sneeze or I coughed a bit. Wait. Stepister. How are you going, Emily? Yeah. Let's go. Hey, Jetfighter. What's that about, Jetfighter? It's not very good. Thank you. I've had a few squirts here where I've got milk on my finger like that. See? You've got to hold your finger up. If your finger's down, you get milk on it. Now, because I've got milk on it, some of the oil's wiped off. It's actually getting a bit dry up here. So I'm going to put a bit more oil on. Hello. Getting a bit more oil. That's better. This teat's got a bit of a cut on the exact other side of it. So when you've got a cut, you've sort of got to try and get it so that you're not squeezing on the cut. What's happening, Jetfighter? Oh, she's interested in the bucket. Back, please. Leg back. Come on. Hey. Good girl. You don't go wandering off on us like that. Keep trying to cut. You've got a bit of a boogie in your nose today. Be helpingadah. What if you'regua fueled the prating Ragday? Go wandering around. I don't care about that, huh? Charles zu Andalu, you've got to go there and that goes to watch the recording around. I don't care about that. Let's try which letzt is not gonna take rootろう road. So, let's get started. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Good morning. No. Good duck, Emily. Thank you. Just hold her head. We're basically trying to train her to sit there patiently and not eat and not move. So the reason we have two people is because she's only been milking two weeks, so she's not trained. I would like to get to the point where I come down and milk her without Emily, or Emily milks her without me, and she just stands there. I don't know if that'll work, but... ост What's that about? I don't know, thank you. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. But I've been eating jackass often and they have fun with the dish. I think I'm really terrified that I make after all myney cuts in. Hey. There's only two warning picks there. There's only one there. Come around here Laura. Coming close to these teats. This front teat is just about running out. Very cynical. See how it's getting thinner? So that udder's nearly empty. There. It's got none left. See that? So it's good to strip it dry like that. So that... Well it's not so important when there's a calf on but... Especially if there's no calf on you want to get them all dry like that so that there's no milk left so that there's less chance of mastitis. That other front one's nearly finished too. There it's finished. See that one's finished? Not much there. If you rub that udder you might get a little bit more milk down. Not much. Great. Now it's just the back two. Oh. That was flickers because I'm back on this saw one with the cut on it. I'm going to have to get saw that one. Now there's just milk in this back one. Only one left. Only one left. More. If you're pasty, 검 Sim Fragen at снова. And the two legs l Hey, we're nearly finished but not quite. Thanks, Jetfighter. She's ready to go. Nearly finished there, Jetfighter. This one's got a cut on it. Can you see there? Yeah? Yeah. Calf cutter. So I want to make sure that I do empty this one out. Because I've found that if there is one that's going to... I'll have a massage that. There they are, just to get a little out there. They're all finished now. All empty. Great. There we go. A nice big bucket of milk. Put our coconut milk away. Now, I like to put that away before the dog gets it. Put it. Put it. Put it. Put it. Put it. Put it. Put it. Put it. Put it. Put it. Put it. Put it. Here we go. Now, you want your loosened? Get butter. Good girl. Thank you for your milk today. I need some loosened for you. Good girl. That's got a little bit of dolomite and mineral mix in there. I think it has... Sulfur, selenium, magnesium, zinc, blah, blah. It's just a really basic trace mineral mix to make sure she gets what she needs. Hey, there you go. Beautiful milk. So, have iced coffees and yoghurt and cream and coffee and... Thank you, Jet Fighter. Good job. Good job. Good girl. Hey? Yeah, you're a good girl. Thank you for your milk today. Don't forget, if you've got any tips on what we're doing wrong and how we could make the talk a little try apart later. Give us a little comment. Just help us with your folks. Didn't ask for lists of quotes If we can share it with you at SCSOPHET nationalicar, create comments.