Precision Ag Technology MADE EASY! │ Fertilization
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T8qZVsPK1ko
Autos & Vehicles
 The farmer's primary task is to produce food. And for this he wants to achieve the best possible yield from his fields. At the same time, the EU's farm-to-fork approach calls for a 20% reduction in fertilizers by 2030. Torben, what options do we already have today to take into account the different growing conditions in the field? Well, Heiner, we take the differences in the crop into account by means of adapted and demand-based fertilization. Here it's particularly important to take care of the different zones of a field. That is, to supply different zones with their different soils with the ideal amount of fertilizer. In principle, of course, it's possible for you to manually adjust the amount in the machine and regulate it upwards and downwards. But if you want to make it a little easier, more convenient and also more accurate, I recommend that you switch to precision farming and work with application maps. And getting started is quite simple. Can you explain the first steps for this? Yes, basically any farmer or contractor can work with the operations center, our online portal, free of charge and create application maps there. This is available as a desktop version and also on your smartphone as a mobile version. So we send this application map wirelessly to the machine and can thus easily implement it in the field. So can this be combined with our new operations center work planner? Yes, exactly. Here the work plan is sent directly to the display in the cab and the settings are applied with one click, so that the driver can start immediately. This is what we call auto setup. And that can save us valuable time in the field? That's exactly right. It also eliminates setup errors for the driver and increases the quality of the documentation. And the valuable fertilizer is used in the best way possible. Plus we collect further data to help us make agronomic decisions. That's a smart solution. That's a smart solution.