Feeding a city with local sustainably grown vegetables.. SAYURAN | SHORT DOCUMENTARY
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T9dtNw2NR4U
People & Blogs
 If you follow the common thread that runs through the food, climate and energy crises that we are facing as a global community, that will lead you back to the industrial way in which you are producing and distributing our food. One of the biggest ways that we can make a difference in our everyday lives is to actually be in control and know where our food is coming from. So the Pluk Town gives people an opportunity to do that on a local scale, to know how their food is grown, to see that it's done in a sustainable manner and to just reconnect with your food. The Pluk Town The Pluk Town The Pluk Town The Pluk Town The Pluk Town The Pluk Town The Pluk Town The Pluk Town The Pluk Town The Pluk Town My name is Chris Chancellor. I'm a former Wageningen student. I now work as a freelance researcher and writer. Alongside that I've also this year started Pluktaan Sayuran, where people can come and pick fresh, local, agro-ecologically produced vegetables. Renting three plots of land within a pre-existing market garden called Pluktaan der Bosrand, that has already existed in Wageningen for ten years. When I was growing up in the UK, we also had a, the family had a moose town. In England it's called Allotment. So I always went with my parents to help out or just play at the side. So it was always like in my, in my environment I guess. But I wasn't that interested until I came here and it's a little bit of Wageningen effect. My field of study was International Development Studies and then I was mainly interested in sustainable food systems and land rights issues. So my mum is from Indonesia and there you have big problems with commodity crop plantations like palm oil for example. And then there's all sorts of human rights issues and environmental issues associated with this sort of industrial food system. So then I started getting more interested in like, okay, how can you actually, what's an alternative to this? How can you actually grow stuff on a smaller scale or in a more responsible way? So then I, yeah, started learning about that more for my studies. But then I thought, okay, why can't you just do this yourself actually. So much stuff you can do in Europe. Okay, you can't grow mangoes. Maybe in 10 years due to global warming. But yeah, there's so much stuff you can grow and we, like in the Netherlands, it's crazy that so much stuff is imported which just grows here. Like, what was the point? It seems a bit silly. When are you in Wageningen? In Bennekom. In Bennekom, okay. I'm just staying home from Bennekom. I'm just trying to tell you how to do it. And what? In the? In the. Okay, thank you. When I came here, my Dutch was okay. Like we could communicate, but it was not great. You just have to practice it, right? We just have to do it. And then eventually you learn. Like now in my Dutch, vocabulary is heavily weighted towards like, yeah, I don't know, garden related words, vocabulary. You just learn by saying and you hear a word and it's like, oh, what does that mean? And then you see what it means and then you remember it. Whereas if you read it in a book, it doesn't stick so good, you know? I also want to make people excited about different types of food. Now we have paksoi, snybeet, lots of different varieties of lettuce, so sly. We have three different varieties of carrots, different colors. So one orange, one purple, one yellow. Three varieties of cherry tomatoes, three varieties of meat tomatoes, like vlays tomato. We have snybona, five different types of courgettes and then herbs. There's basil, there's thyme, there's lemon thyme, parsley. Just for people to taste stuff that they've never seen before, I think is nice. Yeah, so oaf in chakurs. Very delicious, a bit peppery. Yeah, a bit spicy. Now that it's the summer, they really, the taste is much stronger. There are no chemicals used here and care is taken to grow things in a way that is friendly for nature. But not just that, so it actually works as much as possible, sort of in sync with nature. These sorts of varieties can be picked here, so it doesn't matter about the transport, whereas industrial varieties that you'll find in the supermarket, they've been specifically developed in order to survive that transport process. So they have a very hard skin and that's not very delicious actually. So some of these varieties, when they're ready, they will be like these meat tomatoes and they're much bigger, fleshier and softer. That's really delicious but doesn't transport so well. You know, there are options to buy food locally and in a sustainable manner. And that doesn't have to be so complicated. Well, there is really a very simple option where you can just see the food that is produced before you, see how it's produced, taste and difference. Yeah, so I want to show people that that is possible. And someone like me, who had very limited understanding of how to grow stuff two years ago, can produce a lot of food on a small area and feed a lot of people. So I think just for people to be able to see that with their own eyes is really cool. we're great for people. You