Metrics to Watch: Kennedy Implement 2012 Dealership of the Year
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tbfw7cqHng0
Autos & Vehicles
 In a small community in the Pacific Northwest, a dynamic company is growing. This company has served the equipment dealer market for 30 years. They did it by following their principles, by being the best and by being honest to their customers. DIS. Technology Driven. People Focused. Well, dollars per employee, numbers might sound good, but when you're working with a team concept, you start in the service department, move up through parts and everything else, if your parts and service is doing a good job on it, your sales come, as salesmen, we get credit for it, but as sales, the other areas bring it up. So we don't look at anything individually because we have to look at it from the standpoint of profitability for the whole dealership and giving the customer a fair price for a fair product. And that's what we look at. And when we was nominated for this, that wasn't even, I didn't even know what it was per employee. And so we got into the fact that we didn't look at it that way because we're doing a lot of double tasking around here. We have one mechanic, he does our warranty work and things like that. We, full time service rider, we kind of duplex on that a little bit. I run the shop and yeah, I do the sailing. So we're trying to take the revenue and make the dealership a very sound foundation and then we can expand after that. We're trying to take the revenue and make the revenue and make the revenue and make the revenue and make the revenue and make the revenue. In a small community in the Pacific Northwest, a dynamic company is growing. This company has served the equipment dealer market for 30 years. They did it by following their principles, by being the best and by being honest to their customers. D.I.S. Technology Driven, People Focused. Cl plans to install and build bagus as aму, everyday champion EV did page 24, 2015-紀 government agency. D.I.S. Snyder Fund's greatest directive nav crisis giờ screw cars could get an end over a new situation, Poland-TV. Jesus of the, today, earlier spin guessingcie win law is great for the late- Petersburg. Eurog Pearl Harborじゃ the procurement of this company in Italy. principalmente in the new days ago than the local mountainsburated war and living and having passed, then we'll get the…