Resilient Drylands: Innovating for Sustainable Agricultural Landscapes and Livelihoods
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tH4xGPBetPc
Nonprofits & Activism
 Good afternoon colleagues, good morning, good evening to all of you wherever you are. I would like to welcome you to this webinar on Resilient Drylands Innovating for Sustainable Agricultural Landscape and Livelihoods. My name is Yurdi Yasmi and I'm a Special Coordinator for the Plant Production and Protection Division at FAO. It is really a great honour to see many of you joining this webinar and I'm pretty sure some will still join later on. So it's encouraging to see how the subject matters is relevant for all of us. Colleagues, I invite you also to introduce yourself in chat room, maybe where you are from so that we know, you know, in terms of where you are and so forth. So feel free to write your name and, you know, your country where you are based. So the drylands, you know, are very important topics for FAO and for all of us, not only because of the significant contribution to agriculture, but also for peculiarities of the drylands. And a lot of challenges that they are facing. So today we are so pleased to have an opportunity to discuss this, to share lesson learned, to share best practices. And also, you know, we look forward to get your feedback and views on how we can actually work on dryland better in the future to address the issues of poverty, food insecurity and malnutrition. Colleagues, participants and esteemed panels without further ado, I would like to start this webinar by inviting Miss Beth Bechdol, FAO Deputy Director General to give her welcoming remark. Beth, offer to you. Thanks very much, Yuri, and to all of our distinguished guests, to all of our colleagues and everyone who is with us here today. Obviously, we are pulling from a very global audience, so I need to say good morning, good afternoon and good evening to each of you, depending upon your geographic location. I do very much appreciate everyone's taking the time to join us today for, I think, this important discussion. Yuri has already indicated that drylands certainly have their own unique characteristics, and they are critical to achieving global food security. And so drawing attention through today's webinar on how we innovate for sustainable agricultural landscapes and livelihoods, I think is an incredibly timely discussion. I'm also really pleased to see some familiar and friendly faces here on the screen. Jackie Hughes here with us again as our partner, Iker Sat and FAO have worked on many things together over the years, and with her role as Director General. We have very recently been able to take on a number of these important types of topics together. But we are also joined by a number of other distinguished speakers from across many continents. I'm looking forward to hearing from them, hopefully meeting them in the future as well, because I know they will enrich today's discussions, each bringing their own perspectives and their unique knowledge. Dr. Andrea Greenberg. I want to work to thank you iHe help national producers seek those projects, and to do greatائ across sections of agonomiktu пуска, okay? David Hi everyone. David Hi, we have aboutku. How about all this hypocrite Ik conduelt? Jessica Bobby Y listika Ik. Judith Hi make up over 40 percent of the earth's land surface. They are home to 2 billion people on the planet and also supply about 60 percent of the world's food production, making them a very unique type of ecosystem, but one that is also characterized quite partially by water scarcity and low precipitation. But although these regions are dry, they are not barren. They are productive landscapes for plants and animals, but they certainly require our committed attention. Between climate variability, unsustainable land use, conflicts, and demographic shifts, we are seeing the continued degradation of these ecosystems. And these are areas that are facing unprecedented challenges, but at the same time hold enormous potential. They are sources for abundant soil energy. They do have a rich biodiversity within them, and there are countless opportunities to enhance the productivity and the resilience of production systems focused on dry lands. And I think this, where today's discussion comes fully into play, is where innovation has an opportunity to play a key role, to tap into these opportunities. And innovation can be the accelerator for the needed change to scale up best practices, and ultimately to reach more of an impact, but an impact at scale. FAO has a long history of supporting sustainable dry land agriculture around the world. We have contributed to the Great Green Wall Initiative in Africa to restore the continent's degraded landscapes. We have supported farmer field schools in Asia to the drylands of Mesoamerica to restore degraded drylands, working to increase crop productivity, and ultimately enhance community and landscape resilience across these continents. And we also have initiatives such as the grazing with trees initiative. It integrates forestry and agricultural practices to restore drylands while increasing local resilience against disasters and climate hazards. And alongside UNEP, we are leading the UN decade of ecosystem restoration, an important opportunity to draw all of our attention to protecting and reviving ecosystems all around the world. And I think it too, being featured as a decade, gives us an opportunity to build a stronger, more broad-based global movement in support of drylands and other important ecosystems. But we still have more to do, and I think that's where a conversation and a discussion like the one we're having today is so important. For our part here at FAO, in just a few days, in fact, starting next Monday, we will be meeting and convening in FAO headquarters the 29th session of the FAO Committee on Agriculture. Or for those of you well familiar with FAO's nomenclature and acronyms, we call it COAG. COAG is one of four technical committees governing body process of FAO that provides guidance on agriculture-related policies. We review global issues and trends and we advise on emerging topics. And I believe this will also be an opportunity to continue building on this discussion, because in fact, it was back in 2020 at the 27th session of COAG, where there was an endorsement by members of FAO's Global Program on Sustainable Dryland Agriculture, demonstrating that drylands are indeed a priority. So I hope that with today's discussion and with the bringing together of many of our partners, bringing together our members around these types of unique topics, that we can find ways to best use innovation, technologies, data, and other sustainable practices to really elevate and make the drylands ecosystems of the planet far more resilient than they are today. So, Yurdi, with that, I think I'll stop. I'll turn it back over to you and look forward very much to hearing from so many of our partners who are here with us for the panel and for the discussion, and also hopefully some very rich feedback and engagement from those of us who are joining us online. Thanks again. Yurdi, thank you very much Beth for your encouraging welcome remarks and also for outlining the importance of the, you know, of drylands, some of our featured work on drylands, and also you stress the importance of, you know, of working together and bringing the subject back to the table because of the important roles for farmers and for the livelihood and also for food security. So thank you so much Beth. Dear participants, I see that we have hit 200 participants. I still invite you to introduce yourself where you are from. I can see that, you know, some say good evening from the Philippines, from Indonesia, India, Yemen, so many things, Turkey. So please, you know, feel free to introduce yourself in the chat. Colleagues, we will set up the stage for this discussion by a message from a director of Land and Water Division of FAO, Mr. Lee Feng Lee, who is unfortunately due to other commitments cannot be with us, but he has recorded his messages for us. So Heiko, could you kindly play the message from director Lee? Thank you. Dear Deputy Director General Bechtel, distinguished guests, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I'm very pleased to share a viewpoint contributing to the discussion on resilient dryland at this seminar. You may recall that FAO report, the status of Land and Water Resources for Food and Agriculture 2021 concluded that pressures on land and water resources are pushing the ecosystems to their productive limit, compromising agricultural production and intensifying poverty and malnutrition in all regions, especially in the fragile dryland areas. Over 95% of food is produced on land and begins with the soils and water. We need to work together to produce more with less and safeguard these resources for the future. Desertification, land degradation and drought have increasing impacts on food security and livelihoods of millions, negatively affect food production, water and soil resources, and increasing carbon emission and vulnerability to climate change. Estimates indicate that human induced land degradation affect at least 1.6 billion hectares worldwide, impacting directly on 3.2 billion people. More than 60% of the human induced land degradation is indeed taking place on agricultural lands, put the agri-food systems at unprecedented pressure. Drought is one of the most destructive natural disasters, and the most destructive natural disasters, severe drought, incidents are becoming more frequent and affecting food security, especially in the dry areas and in countries with reduced capacity to absorb the shocks. Droughts. By 2050, droughts may affect an estimated 3.25% of the world population. It is a global issue. Together, we need to urgently shift drought management paradigm from reactive to proactive approaches, to increase drought risk preparedness, strengthen adaptation capacity, and move away from emergency actions. The frequency and intensity of sand and dark storms, especially in arid and semi-arid regions, have increased over recent decades due to land use, land cover changes and climate factors, with many regions projected to experience increasing aridity and drought frequency due to climate change. Sand and dark storms have major transboundary impact on environment, climate, health, livelihood, agriculture and food security, and the socio-economic well-being of the society. Healthy soils are essential for sustainable and resilient agro-food systems as they provide safe and nutritious food, regulate both water and carbon cycles, and support above 60% of biodiversity on this planet. Long and short-term development and investment decisions addressing the restoration of degraded lands require integrated strategies that must consider soil organic carbon stocks. Soil recarbonisation strategies can be a game-changer towards achieving land degradation neutrality objectives. Land tenure security is necessary to encourage people to invest sustainably in their land to fight desertification, land degradation and drought, and it's crucial to achieve land degradation neutrality. Supporting countries in dry areas to increase their resilience of livelihood and to reduce the impacts on vulnerable communities is at the heart of FAO's mandate. Sustainable land water use and sustainable land water use and management is key to maintain and sustain food production and has to be at the heart of any agro-food system transformation. Integrated land use planning, responsible land governance, and land tenure security and drought resilience are of fundamental importance for achieving food security, especially in the dry areas. The restoration of degraded agriculture land needs urgent political leadership, massive investment, and concerted actions on the ground. FAO will continue work with the countries and the partners to combat desertification and drought to achieve food security and nutrition. FAO will continue to be a great success. Thank you very much, Lee Feng. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you. And I wish you a very productive discussion. Thank you very much, Lee Feng for setting the stage and context of our discussion today. I will move on to the next speaker. Miss Jackie Hughes, the Director General of ICRISAT. Jackie will share research and development perspective with the title critical developments and opportunity for dryland agriculture. Jackie, over to you. Thank you very much, Yodi. And good evening, good afternoon, and good morning, DDG Beth, and the many colleagues and friends who have joined us on this webinar. I'm going to be talking about where the drylands are, the main issues, the latest developments, and opportunities for the future, which is absolutely critical. Next. The drylands, as Beth said, cover 40% of the Earth's surface, land surface. But the frightening fact is that it's 66% of Africa, 40% of Asia, and 24% of Europe are covered with drylands, whether they are arid or semi-arid. Next. The drylands, as Beth said, are the drylands, and the drylands are covered with drylands. Although it is extremely dry, and it's very difficult to get sufficient water, you will see that agricultural success happens. We have rain fed, we have highlands, lowlands irrigated, but agricultural success is predicated around the successful management of water resources to achieve sustainable livestock, crop livestock, or crop crop system. Next. The looking at all these issues. Productivity. We have heat and drought. We have soil degradation. We need inputs. We need fodder and feed. There are pests and diseases. We need pollinators. And an exceptional drought can cause huge yield losses. I mean, it's truly exceptional drought, 100% loss, but an exceptional drought will give you about 70% loss of soybean, maize, wheat, rice. And as we heard just now, the drylands are degraded. And over a billion people in more than 100 countries are at risk. Climate change and climatic events, we're all seeing them. And we've got increased warming. We also have cooling, the rainfall, climatic events, changes in atmospheric CO2. And climate change is expected to cause approximately 250,000 additional deaths per year from 2030 to 2050. We must either mitigate or adapt. We must be able to reduce the risk of climate change and climate change. We must be able to reduce the risk of climate change. Looking at markets. Market linkages in some of our areas are poor. We have asymmetrical access to information. We need digital tools, globalization, transportation. In Colombia, SMS weather information services reduce crop losses by 11 to 14%. Every incremental increase in production and harvest is important. We have labor and civil unrest. We've got aging farming communities. Agriculture isn't a preferred occupation anymore. Prohibitive labor costs, gender related labor issues, civil unrest. And in my point of view, the first real climate change conflict took place in the Sahel in 2003, when the war in Darfur exposed how the convergence of environmental and political factors can lead to conflict. Policies got to be adapted to local needs. And when adopted, they need to facilitate resilience and productivity must be fit for purpose. And you've got to manage trade offs. And you've got to manage trade offs. Capacity development has to be properly determined, correctly implemented. And you have to address the needs of the different segments of communities, the farmers, the production systems, because communities with lower levels of adaptive capacity experience higher climate in climate impacts due to their reduced ability to cope with climate change. Next. Next. Bye. What are 순간 What are a numerical investment? greater focus on the dry lands, thanks to the International Year of Millets and then the G20 in India. But we have to continue. That was just the beginning. We need the crops to be nutritious. Bio-fortified crops exist. Sometimes there's enough food, but it's not good nutrition. We're harvesting water as the dry lands and more than 70% of the area of the Indian semi-arid tropics has high to medium potential for implementing rainwater harvesting, but we don't always do it. For our soil, we've been putting in a lot of inputs, but not in the dry lands. And one size solution, such as regenerative agriculture, it doesn't fit all. Glass houses and hydroponics are a possibility for the high value crops, which can be grown in dry lands. You see them grown in the deserts of Saudi Arabia and so on. Protected cultivation, but high value crops. Next. We now understand better physiology and productivity. We know about root architecture, for example, and canopy structure. We know that if we get increased light penetration to lower canopy, we can increase yields by up to 17% in some crops. We've got to minimize risk to farmers by diversifying. We need to use digital ag. But the information has to be not only available, it has to be transparent. And when we use machine learning, we have to make sure that what is produced by us is correct, usable, fit for purpose. We need to facilitate breeding. Whether it's through genomics or other molecular tools, we know how to do it. But the policies and the regulatory environment is not always supported. Speed breeding works, conventional breeding, six generations a year for some crops now. So that helps. And we know we need partnerships. But we need better partnerships, stronger, sustainable partnerships. Next. Because I put it to you, even however hard we try, are we going to be able to meet the goals that we have set ourselves? And the figures that we're seeing, it's not looking good, particularly for the dry lands. Next. There are opportunities though, this is the great part. One of the things we need though, is increased funding. That is critical for research. Agriculture doesn't get enough funding to start with compared to example medicine. But we need more for the dry lands. I'll come on to the health and nutrition aspect. But for soils, we'll hear more about soils. But farmers always overestimate the sizes of their farms. They've been putting too much on their farms when they could afford or even find the inputs. Let's make sure that we target the recommendations very carefully. The diagnostic tools that we have for targeted advisories. We can do things like traceability, using machine learning, we can add value to products. Opacity development, it needs to be done not nationally, but globally, continental, regional, because if you're limited by a country or a specific group of people, the interactions aren't there, and you don't get the full benefit of the capacity development. If we look at digital ag, there are so many opportunities, whether you're using satellites, drones, or any other type of technology. But it's got to be available to everyone and the information has to be true. Next. I was talking about the holistic approach to health nutrient rich food. We're looking at soil microbiomes, we're looking at plant microbiomes, gut microbiomes, the interactions and synergies using big data, we can use AI and we need to understand the relationships between them that lead to good health. When we have biofortified crops, which I was talking about earlier, make sure that the nutrients are bioavailable, they are not always. We need to know how to prepare the food, make sure that even when we breed the plants it will be a bioavailable nutrient. We need dietary diversity, it's a very simple thing. Have diversity on your plate, we've been talking about it for years. It's not happening. How do we do it? And however much we do for One Health, we need also to minimize chronic infections that prevent uptake of nutrients. We don't do it all together. We do it bit by bit. We need to pull it all together. If we could go on to the next slide, please. I'm talking about gene editing on this slide. It's becoming more popular. In some countries, for example, India, there's a simple regulatory environment for gene edited crops, not transgenic crops. And for intractable problems, gene editing can solve rancidity in pearl millet flower, might solve aflatoxins. And if countries still cannot accept gene edited plants, because somebody might think it's scary, at least then we will know exactly what we're looking for in gene banks, in the diversity of our crops to use conventional breeding. So don't write off gene editing. If you think the regulatory environment won't commit it, it's an amazing tool. And we need to use it quickly. Next, other opportunities include crop management, big advances in productivity are needed. And we need to get our options right, we need to have the management options absolutely spot on. I'll talk about adaptation. Pests and diseases are really taking off with climate change. We can use remote sensing apps to identify and track and control, but it needs to be done on a holistic level. Just controlling one field is not good enough. You've got to control a landscape to stop the spread of pests and diseases. We can help increase availability of nitrogen in the soil using biological nitrification inhibition. Again, technology driven, but it would help. We can advocate the use of new technologies, gene editing, for example, but scientists are not the ones to do that advocacy very well. We don't do it well. We need others to help support us. Some of these crops used for the dry lands have industrial uses. Yes, we want food, we want nutrition, but money is also important. So let's not forget that. And I believe we should foster entrepreneurship opportunities. That's a way of getting the youth back in. And we can scale and deliver impact, which is what we're all about. Next. I mentioned crop adaptation and selection. I put it to you all that we can no longer breed crops for today. We have to breed crops for maybe 10 to 15 years ahead. Why are we forcing crops which love a semi temperate climate? Why are we trying to breed them forcefully to the dry lands? The dry lands are expanding as the we reach the edges. Why not putting crops that are adapted? Why give ourselves such a huge headache trying to adapt crops that don't like those environments? Our crops need to be tolerant of climatic events, abiotic stressors and broad based resistance to pests but we have to get it all together, in one plant, not a separate trace. Next. Please, can we work at a landscape approach? approach. We need watershed level approaches. We need to manage water. Water is owned. It's used for irrigation, fisheries, for drinking, and it's a cause of conflict. We need to have the cereals, the legumes, the horticulture, the trees diversify the cropping system. We have the tools we need. Data is plentiful. It's available. And there are many opportunities. We need effective policies to be able to implement them. I've given you a whole mishmash of all the things that are wrong and all the ways that we could work together, but we have to work at scale. Individual farms won't fix the problem. It has to be done across scale. So I hope it's given you a taste, and I'm looking forward to hearing if anybody has the solutions that we can take further. Thank you very much, everyone. Jackie, thank you very much for this succinct but comprehensive presentation from you. Very well received and I think very critical. Many of what you said are very relevant, if not all. And thanks, you know, Jackie, for really bringing these important issues, new developments, opportunities. Yes, we have challenges, but as you said, we need to work at scale. We need to work at scale and at landscape level. Thank you, Jackie. Colleagues, for those of you who have just joined, you can start now asking questions in the Q&A chat. We will continue to the next presenters. Our own Makiko Taguchi will be sharing our work on dry land from FAO perspective. Makiko, over to you. Makiko Taguchi, thank you very much. Makiko Taguchi, thank you very much. Hello, everyone. My name is Makiko Taguchi. I'm an agricultural officer with the plant production and protection division. I hope you're seeing my slide okay? Makiko Taguchi, yes. Makiko Taguchi, Perfectly, yes. Makiko Taguchi, Great. So I have the honor to share briefly about what our division plant production protection division is doing in the dry lands alongside other partners. Makiko Taguchi, Okay. Makiko Taguchi, So the first program that I want to mention is the dry land sustainable landscapes initiative impact program, which I think flows nicely after what Jackie just mentioned that we really need to work at the landscape level. Makiko Taguchi, So this impact program is funded by the global environmental facility and led by FAO and has started in 2021 until 2026. Makiko Taguchi, Let's see. So the program is working in various forms supporting 11 countries in Africa and Central Asia. One of the ways is through this sustainable landscape production framework. Makiko Taguchi, Which addresses common management challenges and dry lands through an integrated multi sectoral approach and then breaking silos for greater impact by shifting from fragmented interventions to cohesive model through farmer field schools and acts improving access to seeds through community seed banks and business incubation through force and farm facility. Makiko Taguchi, The other element is the integrated landscape assessment methodology as Jackie just mentioned data is available. So through this methodology. Makiko Taguchi, We bring together data from geospatial information systems such as Google Earth and down to household level data so that tailored evidence based interventions can be made. Makiko Taguchi, And these are shared and lessons learned are shared through a regional Makiko Taguchi, The other element is that we're seeing all of these regional Makiko Taguchi, With the regional Makiko Taguchi, Exchange mechanisms and also Makiko Taguchi, Through these community of practices that are set up who are dealing with the data, but also with the production framework. Makiko Taguchi, And this is all supported not only by our division, but of course with the land and water division that Mr Lee shared and also the forestry division. Going a little bit deeper into the community seed bank element that our seeds and genetic resources team is supporting. This element is supporting six countries from the SADAC region. And focusing on the Mionbo and the Mopane Woodlands area in sub-Saharan Africa. So this community seed banks are set up to help mitigate the negative effects of land degradation and to help a regional approach through the regional exchange mechanism, like I mentioned. And then creating a sustainable and scalable action through the coordination with the SADAC Plant Genetic Resources Center. And it is also supported by international platforms such as inter in international treaty of plant genetic resources, which is also hosted by FAO. And this work is really focusing on diversification that Jackie had just mentioned. It's all it's about availability of quality seed through the community banks, seed banks, making available the well adapted crops and varieties that some of them might be traditional, but because of lack of investments, they may have kind of disappeared from the cultures. Helping farmers to diversify cropping systems and overall to improve productivity and to have a diverse and balanced diet and helping farmers participate in new value chains. So in that community seed bank initiative also supported the international year of millets that we celebrated last year that Jackie also mentioned. Millets is one of the group of crops that are suited for dry land environments. So throughout the year we have celebrated not only just these 15 types of millets, but various millets even beyond these to really focus on the traditions and the cultures and the cuisines that have supported communities all around the world. And I am happy to inform you that the final report has just been published today. So you can visit the final report of the international year of millets and the link that is provided in the chat and in this slide that you see. I would also like to bring attention to an FAO Carta international technical cooperation network on cactus that I've been working on for the last decade. This community is working on really bringing together research and development in cactus. It's a crop. The Puntia species is the main species, but not only that this group focuses on originates in Mexico, but now it's grown and all over the world in the dry land areas. We currently have not over 900 members in 79 countries. And the really interesting thing about this crop is that it's or groups of crops is that they're very resilient. Of course, they're cactus. They, they thrive well in dry land areas and they are versatile. They are good for human consumption as the fruits or the pads of salads or vegetables. And as for a fodder, it's, it's an increasing crop that is recognized as a good source of fodder. And it is also a good source of bioenergy is getting gaining a lot of interest around the world. And next year we'll be working with our partners, the Carta and others to support the International Congress on Cacti as food fodder and other uses in Spain. So please let me know if you are interested in this work as well. And then on top of this, I would also like to mention that we have been working in support of the US State Department and the African Union on the vision for adaptive crops and soils are known as backs for some of you. And this is an initiative that brings attention to indigenous and traditional crops that we have some of them we have just mentioned Jackie and I that are more adapted to the local environmental conditions and nutritious that can be more nutritious than other major staple crops that are grown in the countries. And they have, they tend to be more climate resilient and also better adapted to land degradation. So as Jackie just mentioned, it is important that these. Neglected and underutilized species. Get the attention they need for research and development, as well as policy and investment attention. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you very much, Makiko. I can see the a lot of convergence between what you presented and that of Jackie's. It's good, you know, to see how, you know, we are working, you know, at country level, at landscape level to promote, to promote the drylands. So for sure, you know, as Jackie said, and also best that, you know, we need to be working together on these, you know, I already see, you know, from these two presentation, how important it is for us to compare nodes and to move together to support dryland agriculture. Thank you again, Makiko. Now I would like to move on to our next presenters who will present managing soil health and plant nutrition in dryland ecosystem in sub-Saharan Africa. I would like to invite Samir Zingore, the director of research at African Plant Nutrition Institute. Samir, over to you. Dr. Samir Zingore, M.D.: Yes, thank you very much. Can you see my presentation? Samir Zingore, M.D.: Yes, we can see it, but maybe you need to put it in presentation mode now it's good, it's OK now. Go ahead. Go ahead. Oh, excellent. Thank you very much for the introduction and greetings to colleagues and partners joining us from different parts of the world. It's a great pleasure for me to be part of this very important and timely discussion on sustainable management of livelihoods and landscapes in the drylands. I'm going to focus by presentation today on issues related to the intricate connection between soil health and plant nutrition with the primary focus in sub-Saharan Africa. I wanted to start by illustrating the core intricate relationship between nutrient management and some of the environmental and social and economic sustainability challenges that we encounter in the region. At the apex of the challenges for agricultural sustainability in sub-Saharan Africa is the law and inappropriate nutrient application. Southern Africa currently has the lowest use of both organic and mineral fertilizers, resulting in a soil health crisis that is associated with nutrient mining, with currently more than 30 kgs of nutrients being lost from agricultural lands on the continent. And there's also the parallel challenges associated with overgrazing that also depletes the overall biomass and nutrients in the system. Over the long term, this cascades into land degradation, which at this point, 65% of the cropland in the African drylands is actually considered to be degraded, resulting in major, you know, challenges and high risk for non-responsive source that don't respond to the to management. And this then is associated with a whole host of other environmental challenges, including high emissions of carbon from and biodiversity losses, mostly through area expansion, especially into vulnerable drylands that then trigger a lot of climate change and exacerbate the effect of climate change as well. And this then is expressed in the major food and nutritional and livelihood challenges that we find on the continent. So what I'm going to address today is to highlight the importance then of building soil health and systems resilience with a key focus on addressing the core issue of plant nutrition and focusing on integrated soil fertility, crop and water management, and then ensuring that this is done to address climate change and then also address these context-specific technologies due to the diversity of the systems that we are working in the different parts of the continent. But we also need to pay attention to the economic viability of the solutions because in large parts, a lot of technologies that work, you know, from a technical perspective are not always providing the right solutions that meet the socio-economic requirements of smallholder farmers. So I wanted to provide an illustration here of studies that we have carried out in the drylands in eastern southern Africa, looking at the impact of low input systems on soil carbon. And soil carbon is used as a good indicator of soil health due to its multiple functions for biological, physical and chemical soil properties. In the large part of the systems under smallholder low input system, soil organic matter declines very rapidly in the initial years of cultivation, reaching in about 10 years to less than 50% of the initial soil organic carbon stored in native soil, woodlands or grasslands. And what is very striking is that a large part of the carbon losses, which is also associated with land degradation or care in the initial years of cultivation and resulting in very low crop productivity with yields only in the range of one to two tons per hectare. So we have a large part of the soil. So we have to look at that. So we have to look at that. So we have to look at the soil. So we have to look at the soil. So we have to look at the soil, which is a good thing. So we have to look at the soil. So we have to look at the soil. And then degradation results in soils that respond very poorly to management. And this is a key challenge. What's in large parts of the world? So health issues related to intensification and overuse of pesticides and fertilizers. It's a contrasting situation is large parts of the sub-Saharan Africa where a large part of the land degradation is driven by low use of nutrient inputs. But what we also found interesting is by investing in new plant nutrition, by investing in balanced fertilization with managing crop residues to improve soil organic carbon in commercial farming systems. So we observed that we could actually double the soil organic carbon in the long term and maintain much higher yields highlighting the core value of plant nutrition in improving soil health and also contributing to sustainable crop production as well. So then I just wanted to then illustrate some of the processes of land degradation and how they relate to crop response and plant nutrition. So the degradation and restoration trajectories associated with crop productivity happen in a sequential process. In large parts of the systems, an early part of the degradation is associated with nutrient losses. And under such conditions in the A-zone, we can actually improve crop productivity by focusing on plant nutrition as a key component of increasing crop productivity. And by investing in plant nutrition, we also produce the biomass that is needed to maintain is organic matter and soil health. But as degradation advances and you have chemical and biological degradation taking place, then the responsiveness of the soils are diminished and the rate of restoration is also diminished. And in those systems, a greater focus on integrated solutions becomes pertinent. But under advanced degradation conditions, a way I want to highlight in the Zone C, this is where degradation is very severe and nutrition itself does not solve the challenge because soils become low responsive to nutrient applications. And under those conditions, soil health restoration becomes the key entry point. And this is where a large part of the efforts in regenerative agriculture and some of the nature-based solutions that are needed first to rebuild soil health before the soils can respond to nutrient applications becomes the key entry point for reversing productivity. Then I just wanted to end by highlighting that we have been working in this conceptual frameworks addressing the critical need of plant nutrition, both in terms of mineral fertilizers and organics to support the continental agricultural development agenda. And we are proud as a PNI to have contributed in the leading role in the development of the African Union Fertilize and Soil Health Action Plan, which was endorsed by the African government at the summit in Nairobi this year. This creates the priorities and sets the priorities of the continent for sustainable soil health and plant nutrition and crop productivity for the next decade. This is a 10-year action plan, and the action plan focuses on harnessing multi-stakeholder partnerships and investments for sustainable fertilizers and soil health management. And four key intervention areas are covered in that action plan, which will direct innovation and investments through multiple partnerships in addressing the challenges of soil health in the continent. And last part of what I talked about today is an outcome three greater efficiency, resilience and sustainable use of mineral and organic fertilizer inputs. But this is done in the enabling environment of improved policies, investments, finances and markets to ensure that access to the right technologies is enabled, and then also improve access and affordability of the organic and mineral fertilizers, which overcomes one big barrier of access and affordability. And then also we need to also pay attention to the institutional and human capacity development needs to be able to drive the innovation and promote the scaling and the adoption of the plant nutrition strategies that site specific crop specific, but also fitting the social economic context of small order farmers. I wanted to end this highlight of the continental agenda and will be pleased to further discuss some of the key specific technologies as we will have time for discussion later. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Sammy, for your very interesting presentations and I congratulate you for putting this together. In view of time, you know, I will move on to the next presenter, Miss Tomoko Harigaya, Chief Scientist, Precision Development, who will talk about digital agricultural innovations to foster climate resilience, small order system. Over to you, Tomoko Harigaya, Chief Scientist, Precision Development, and the smallholder system. Over to you, Tomoko. Thank you. It's great to be here. And, you know, I very much appreciate the opportunity to share our learnings with all of you today. So as you know, the spread of mobile phones and new technologies and data present a huge opportunity to disseminate and deliver customized information to smallholder farmers in real time in a way that's really unprecedented. And today, you know, I like to bring in implementers perspective to the discussion and share, you know, how we have approached to take advantage of these technologies, visual, you know, digital tools, and share some of our experience in India. Next slide, please. So I'll start with a quick introduction of precision development, or PXD, for those of you who aren't familiar with our work. We are a nonprofit working with the government and other partners to expand access to innovations and information that millions of farmers can use to improve their livelihoods. And digital agricultural advisory has been a core part of our work. So we work flexibly with different partners depending on the needs in each context. So sometimes we take on the implementer role designing and delivering customized information directly to smallholder farmers. But we also work with partners to make data driven improvements to already existing digital services. Or in some other settings, we take on the advisory role for the government, you know, trying to integrate digital technologies into agriculture extension. Next slide, please. And over the years, you know, we've really focused on building customized information services for smallholder farmers that are sustainable at a very large scale. And our general approach is to combine farmer specific information and available agricultural data in a given context. And then we create localized and dynamic information that enables farmers to optimize their agricultural decisions. For instance, you know, you might have a farmer location, crop profile, and so forth from farmers that you're working with. And then you might have agricultural data, you know, in a specific context. Like some, sometimes, you know, sort of help data. There might be better forecasts, market prices, and so forth. You know, usually you don't have all of this data in place at the start. And this is something that you build out as you interact more with farmers and learn about the context, the available data. Next slide, please. And then one important element of our work is really to kind of create this feedback loop that allows the service to iterate and improve over time. And there are a few key elements to this. First one is that we use the behavioral science and the human-centered design approach to ensure that farmers we are targeting find the advisory messages relevant and actionable. Especially with agricultural advice or even things like weather forecasts, messages can get quite technical and hard to understand, especially in short messages. So this is something we pay a lot of attention to. Second, we use experiments and other methods of data analysis to continuously test the design tweaks to increase engagement adoption. And then third, we set out every service with the scaling partners, open governments, so that we can rapidly reach, you know, hundreds of thousands of farmers and keep the service free to them. And then there's a sustainable path. And then the scale, of course, you know, also means that you gain kind of more data access and that allows you to learn faster and increase impact faster as well. All right. Next slide, please. So now, like, how does all of this look like in action? I'll take one example today from India work again. The PXD flagship program, which is called Amakrushit. So this is a two way voice platform where farmers receive customized agricultural advice on their mobile phones as the recorded messages. And then they can also call in and record a question to get an answer from a government agronomist within 48 hours or, you know, two to three days. And in addition to agronomic advice, farmers also receive real time alerts on extreme weather events or, you know, local pest conditions where the information was available. The service was co-designed with the government of Orisa and co-funded by the government and the Gates Foundation. But the vision for sustainable model was very clear from the start among all stakeholders that PXD would, you know, first build and improve the service. And then, you know, that's again about gathering farmer feedback, tweaking messages or creating a dashboard and other tools to help the government monitor usage over time. Right. And then we transition the service to the government fully after five years. But this was all planned. So when we handed over the service with nearly 3 million farmers on the platform in 2022, we also handed over an operational team that was already familiar with the flow and managing the service for a while. And really, I think the remarkable thing was, you know, the government was because of all that planning and kind of steps in place. They were ready to take it and run with it after the transition. They continue to expand the service, and now it's reaching over 6 million farmers covering over 20 value chains now. Next slide, please. And then in the process of this scaling of the service, we also incorporated a randomized evaluation to measure the impact of the service among rice farmers. Today, I'm just touching on a few preliminary findings and insights. So first, looking at the usage, we saw a fairly high and consistent engagement over two years. And then second, we see a significant increase in total rice production, in particular, a large impact appears to be concentrated among farmers, areas hit by certain types of weather shocks. So for example, in the first year of the evaluation, there was a concentrated heavy rainfall that submerged plants in the middle of the season. The analysis seems to suggest that access to amakrushi substantially increased total production among those farmers. And then very excitingly, we also see a large reduction in the reported likelihood of severe crop loss due to weather related events. And this figure, you know, comes from actually the second year where the big shock was actually the scarcity of rainfall. So, you know, this is part of the geography. They get both too much rain and too little rain. And we seem to see that generally the evaluation suggests that advisory was helpful in farmers coping with these different types of weather shocks. So, three insights that, you know, I just want to quickly highlight. First is that these results seem to suggest that there is a very large unmet need for climate information for smallholder farmers to cope with these weather related events. Second, we know that different farmers face different shocks and constraints across seasons, and we will benefit from the service and by how much will likely change from season to season. So we might see a large impact in only a small subset of farmers in a particular year. But that doesn't mean that the shall advisory won't be helpful for other farmers in a different year. So, so I think that kind of changes the way we think about maybe impact measurement and and and so forth. And then lastly, I think to enable farmers to improve their climate resilience. We see a big opportunity again with all these new technologies and data to improve our capabilities to identify the most relevant localized climate risks in real time. Next slide, please. Now I'll wrap up with just a few thoughts on the replicability of these types of digital agriculture advisory services. So first, you know, one challenge we've faced is the difficulty of aligning donors in the government interest at the same time. So for instance, you know, the government might express enthusiasm, but it takes time to kind of identify funding opportunity and so forth. So by then there may be changes in the government or the government may be busy with something else to kind of collaborate on a proposal in a month. And and that, you know, I think that we really find ourselves to kind of finding these big opportunities lost because of these challenges of aligning, you know, all the stakeholders at the same time. Second, once you do have an opportunity to set up a digital agricultural advisory service with the government, it's really important to integrate the service into the existing government infrastructure. You know, this can enhance collaboration by in and knowledge transfer, which is absolutely necessary to make the service sustainable. And then third, systems to data systems and data processes that can create a feedback loop critical to maintaining the impact at scale. As we scale and expand our target farmer base, we have to ensure that the content continues to be relevant for more diverse farmer needs and environments. And this requires constant, you know, farmer feedback and iterations. And I think one way that we think about it is, you know, when we are setting up these feedback mechanisms, we are reducing communication of friction between farmers and governments and scientists and all the stakeholders. And I think that's a really important piece. And then finally, I think part of this creating an effective feedback system is about establishing a culture of experimentation and learning. And I think the return to institutionalizing this type of feedback mechanism can generate very large sustainable impact. Of course, we haven't really figured out how to do all of this. We have a lot of opportunities and we are constantly learning and I'd love to hear from other panelists and the audience about their experience in scaling innovations and services to small farmers. Thank you. Thank you very much, Makiko, for your interesting presentation on, you know, how digital innovation, you know, can play its role in our discussion. Very interesting. Thank you, Makiko, for your amazing. And I congratulate you for this presentation and for keeping it within the time. Now, I would like to move on to our next presenter, who will be talking about promoting in the partnership and agri-food innovations in the dry land is my honor to invite Mr. Tami Adegoroye, Managing Partner, Shahel Consulting Agriculture and Nutrition. Tami, over to you. Thank you. Great. Thank you very much. Can you see my screen? Can you hear me? Yes. Okay, good. Good afternoon from Kano, Nigeria. Good evening. Good morning to you all. Anywhere you have. Antimia Digoube has introduced I head Sahel Consulting, a consulting firm focused on transforming the food and agriculture landscape across Africa and how we're speaking on promoting entrepreneurship and agri-food innovations in drylands focusing on Africa. Just to quickly mention that, I mean, it's a reminder that Africa is naturally in doubt for agriculture excellence and we know why. About 50 to 70 percent of the population is involved in agriculture. Well, 80 percent of the food produced, been produced by farmers, mostly producers. We have about 60 percent of the water-rable land. But of course, we know some of the issues we're facing with dryland agriculture and, you know, the significance of dryland agriculture and how to make, to ensure that we make dryland agriculture more resilient, more sustainable. I want to speak today, highlighting three ways to, three critical ways to promote entrepreneurship and agri-food innovations in drylands. The first would be focused on empowering SMEs in agriculture to deal with resilience against shocks of climate. The second would be scaling up private sector agriculture and agriculture. The second would be promoting market-led initiatives. We are currently implementing a program called the Building Resilience Against Climate and Environmental Shocks Brace, which basically is focused on intensive capacity development to support African agriculture SMEs to become aware of how the businesses are affected by climate change and you know, enabling them to develop strategies to mitigate them. It's quite a very intensive program. Over 1,200 SMEs across 30 countries in Africa have been trained and we're beginning to see increased business efficiency of these agribusinesses. At least about 30% of them are beginning to adopt climate smart agricultural practices. On the next slide, I wanted to highlight some of the, some of, some part of the data diagnostics coming out of the training and really to say, you can see how the knowledge of the knowledge of country level climate smart agriculture policies have increased to almost over 90% just from the training activities, as well as the knowledge of climate smart agriculture approaches. Many of the participants actually didn't even know or were not aware of any climate smart agricultural practices pre-training. And it's quite encouraging to see that. And I can, I can, you know, say that many of these trained agribusinesses are beginning to adopt various practices in their businesses in the dry lands. And just to, from moving on on this slide to highlight that, I think addressing climate shocks in dry lands should start with increasing the knowledge of the key value chain actors, very important businesses or small scale producers. Moving on the second, I want to highlight here really is scaling private sector engagement with small farmers. And I think if we're going to promote entrepreneurship, you know, promote agri-food innovations in the dry lands, we need to encourage many of the private sector partners that are playing in that space. And there are quite a number of unique innovative business models that many private organizations have explored, you know, ranging from informal engagement between entrepreneurs and small-holder farmers or intermediary, where they design formal, you know, contracts where we have formal subcontracting of companies and aggregators, farmer groups, you know, to engage farmers to directly, you know, offtake their produce or, you know, small centralized models or nuclear estate model, where these companies are, you know, setting up farms and engaging farmers there. But the unique thing about these private sector engagement models is that many of the critical services that small-scale producers require in dry lands come with these service provision models, you know, providing sustainable ecosystem for the farmers, providing access to input services, training, ensuring effective monitoring system, providing mechanization support, storage support. And the most important of all is, you know, the fact that there is market access. And these models are becoming more and more prominent on the continent, especially in dry lands across several value chains. And I think one of the ways to encourage, you know, agribusinesses working in this space is to really support the scaling efforts in ensuring that many more value chains are reached, and many more small scale producers are reached as well. And of course, more food is produced. This is something that I think is very important. The third initiative that I will highlight, a way that I think we need that we can explore to promote entrepreneurship and agri-food innovation is by promoting market-led initiatives. There are several of them, but I want to highlight one called the Advancing Local Dairy Development in Nigeria program that is currently being led by Sahel Consulting. Robust, complex program, leveraging ecosystem model or methods to address the issues within the dairy sector in Nigeria, but not just addressing issues within the dairy sector, ensuring that we are, you know, creating or building more entrepreneurial capacity within rural communities in both dairy and non-dairy communities. So far, the Houding program has been able to form about, form farmers into about 2,667 suburb groups, you know, funding to over 200 cooperatives. Now we have more than 11,000 women that are trained on different entrepreneurial, entrepreneurship, you know, business models ranging from, you know, poultry, goat rearing, vegetable cultivation, soap making, petroleum jelly. And you can see some of the numbers there, how these women have been able to, through collaboration with private sector dairy processors, have been able to sell meat water over 2 million USD in the last three and a half years. And within the program, we've been able to also train more than 200 community-based entrepreneurs who are providing various, you know, you know, you know, the degree of services as artificial intelligence technicians, vets, community-based animal, housebounded service providers. These, I think, you know, has created a unique business pathway within communities and, you know, helping farmers to really, you know, increase income. Just to highlight what that is looking like in terms of income diversification for women, we can see some two women groups here that I highlighted in both Kanu and Adamawa and Nigeria with income diversification training. They're beginning to really explore, you know, poultry businesses. And we're beginning to see that these businesses are becoming sustainable because they've not just done it one-off, they continue to reinvest, you know, their profit and plough back into actually doing more. This, for us, we believe, is a success story that if we support these kind of initiatives, we definitely can do more in dry lands. The other one is around nutrition, education, vegetable gardening, and how training women and men on the principles of diversity and supporting them to actually create guidance have led to not just ensuring that they have food for their households, but they also have vegetables to sell and they're making money at the community level. It also just shows that if we scale several market-led initiatives like this one, we are likely going to be able to achieve a lot more in, you know, encouraging entrepreneurship in dry lands and ensuring food availability. This is my last slide. I just want to end by specifically highlighting some very practical steps that I think we need to consider in addition to those three initiatives. I think we need to support agri-food entrepreneurs to scale successful private sector-led initiatives. I talked about some backward integration models between private sector and farmers, service provision models as well. We need to leverage infrastructure to harness the dry land, some of the most important dry land resources, and I think, I mean, solar energy comes to mind. I mean, we can harness the power of solar energy in dry lands to power agriculture and power other sectors in Africa, and I think that will definitely bring a lot more development into the dry lands. And I think we need to support the creation of a pan-African policy platform for a coordinated voice on how to develop dry lands. I think that's become critical now more than ever before. We need to empower entrepreneurs to build resilience against climate shocks. With the little we can achieve embrace, I believe that with more education around climate and support, I believe that many entrepreneurs would emerge from within the dry lands. And of course, the final one would be the creation of a knowledge sharing hub. I think data is extremely important and knowledge exchange, information exchange is very critical for business decision making and evidence program design and implementation. I will stop there and wait for the question and answer session. Thank you so much. Thank you very much, Temi, for sharing your experience on this. And nice to see how this entrepreneurship aspect in your work and in Sub-Sahara Africa. In view of time, I will move on to our final presenters. I would like to invite Marcela Lemus de Roje, who is from FAO El Salvador. She will be talking about climate change, building climate resilient landscapes through local knowledge and innovation in Central America's dry corridor. And in the world. Marcela, over to you. Thank you very much, Jordi. And hello to all the audience that is joining us today from all over the world. My name is Marcela Lemus and I am a specialist in resilient agriculture for the Green Climate Fund project in FAO El Salvador. And I'm very grateful to share on behalf of the Reclima team our experience in building climate resilient landscapes through sustainable agriculture measures. So to start with our presentation, I will talk a little bit about the dry corridor in Central America, which covers 44% of Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador and Nicaragua. And as you can see, we are located in El Salvador and the country is within the region. However, the Reclima project is on 108 districts which were selected through those territories having high and severe drought. Communities within the dry corridor are severely affected by climate change events, mainly for long periods of drought followed by intense rains and also land degradation. And we have talked also and other panelists have talked also about water scarcity in the region affecting crops, animal production and human consumption. Unfortunately, we still have unsustainable management practices in agricultural production, which leads to an inadequate management of natural resources, especially soil and water. So under this context, we have the upscaling climate resilient measures in the dry corridor agroecosystems of El Salvador, better known as Reclima project, which was formulated in 2018. And it is financed by the Green Climate Fund and the Salvadorian government and FIAES for a total of $127.6 million. The project aims to increase the resilience of the livelihoods of the population living in the dry corridor to climate change. And this is aligned with the objective of the global program on sustainable dry land agriculture, which aims to empower small scale producers by building technical capacities to protect natural resources under and the changing climate. And the project has three main outputs. The first one aims to improve the resilience of the livelihoods and production systems in family farms. The second one is more related with the restoration processes of critical areas such as water recharge zones, riparian zones, buffer zones of natural protected areas in order to increase the resilience of flows of environmental services at landscape levels. And finally, we have output number three, which aims to improve the governance and information flow in support of sustainability and scaling up. Basically, these output is the foundation of the sustainability of outputs one and two. But for today's presentation, we will focus on output number one, where we are applying an innovative approach in terms of capacity building and agricultural extension methodology. We are working with farmers field schools, but using a figure of a community promoter who is a leader farmer within their communities and they are selected under certain criteria. We have technical staff facilitating these farmer field schools with these community promoters. After that, community promoters replicate the knowledge with a group of farmers within their communities. In average, each community promoters have 35 farmers. And that's why, as you can see, by 2024, we have achieved more than 46,000 farmers already, because I think that we all or mainly in the in in the old countries, we have a lack of human resources. However, we are creating capacities of these people, not just building capacities, but also to provide technical assistance within the farmers, we have the participation of women, youth and indigenous people. And we have achieved already more than 41,000 hectares where farmers are applying at least two sustainable practices. So which are the key implemented strategies that we are implementing to transform dry land agriculture, where first of all, we have the traditional knowledge, we have a validation of the sustainable practices with indigenous peoples and other key actors. And actually, indigenous peoples were very happy that we were rescuing some of these practices, as we will see, they are not new, and people stopped doing them, obviously, for the use of products or other technology that is not that are not environmentally friendly, and but facilitates the work for them. Another important strategy is the governance and institutional strengthening. And here we are working with local committees that are integrated by local governments and use a community based organization among another key actors. And this is actually one of the things that have motivated producers to implement the practices as well. Because, for example, in some territories, we have local governments supporting producers with additional inputs or technical assistance. And at the same time, local governments can comply with environmental regulations within their territories, for example, with the not burning in the agricultural areas. Another important thing is technology and the use of digital tools. Community promoters have compiled baseline information of producers on the ground using cobalt collect tool. And they also have been following up the implementation of the practices of their group of farmers using these a tool. As I said, the capacity building through the farmer field schools, it's an innovative approach within the project, and we are leaving a human capital in the territories, not only for this initiative, but for some of the future initiatives in the country. And even when capacity building is very important, we cannot forget about technical assistance. And this has been also a key factor of success for the implementation of practices, because farmers can have access to this service. And they also are more motivated for the implementation of the sustainable measures. So which are the sustainable agricultural practices? As I mentioned, these are not new. As I mentioned, these are not new. And we are working with no burning, no tillage, stable management, contour line planting, live barriers, infiltration ditches, infiltration pits, death barriers, the establishment of further bank with varieties tolerant to droughts and floods, and the production of organic fertilizers, the establishment of agroforestry and silvopasture systems, and the production of organic fertilizers. As I mentioned earlier, these are the use of local varieties that are resistant, resilient to the conditions of the dry corridor and implementation of drip irrigation systems. As I mentioned earlier, these are the main areas where it is in some areas where water is available. And even when we are not working with the concept of get-sung-wild systems, all the activities we are promoting among the farmers include this important element of traditional knowledge. including also an integrated pest management, the use of the biomass as a result of the prong of the trees to fertilize and improve the soil. In all these practices also we are using the exact tool for the estimation of carbon sequestration and we already have 590,000 tons of carbon dioxide equivalent captured at this stage of the project that is the 70% of the goal we have. And this is directly linked to the soil conservation, soil fertility and moisture retention that impacts and improve the productivity and livelihoods of our people. And I think that this is very key because some of our producers, obviously they are aware about taking care of the resources, but they also are experiencing by themselves the benefits of implementing these practices in the cost reductions and the improvement of yields. So to sum up, I just want to mention that it is very important, as other panelists have mentioned as well, to focus on an integrated approach. It is very important to rescue the local knowledge, including innovative technologies, processes, capacity building, technical assistance in order to reach better and sustainable dry land farming. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Marcela, for sharing FAO's experience. Let's say, you know, how FAO is in action in this dry corridor. I think it's very interesting. And I also link it back to what Makiko, Beth and Jackie said, you know, action at scale. I think through Green Climate Fund, although, you know, there is a sizable amount of funding. But to increase it at scale, it really, you know, required government commitment and other stakeholder commitment to support the dry corridor program in the region where you are working. So thank you very much for that, Marcela. Colleagues, now we have time, a bit of time, not much for answering questions that are not yet very, you know, answers. There have been Q&A in the chat, and I can see that some of the panels, you know, have start answering these questions, but not all of them, but let me have a quick look on these. Perhaps I can go to first to Makiko. There is a question, I think, from Mr. Alex Nyarko, who is the FAO representative in Djibouti. He is asking about, you know, where to get the cuttings of cactus because Djibouti is also dry. If you can attend to that question quickly, Makiko, over to you. Thank you very much, Yurdi. I think I just answered that question in the chat too, but just quickly answering that. Cactus does exist already in the country. So first and foremost, Wade is to best make use of the species that are available, the Puntia species. But the cactus net can also facilitate different genetic resources to be shared from gene banks and other entities through appropriate means. So please contact me for further information. Thank you. Thank you, Makiko and Alex. This is an internal discussion that you will not. You will need to follow up with Makiko. Now we have this question from Sergio Torres. What is the percentage of smallholders that could have access to digital agriculture or even data that is understandable to all and not dependent on the international or government cooperation? Perhaps Tomoko, you can shed some light on this if you have any idea. I that's that's a, you know, very difficult question. I think, you know, one is that I think there are a lot of different stakeholders in different digital programs, and you know, they are working with different scales. You know, in theory, I think they are like I think there are different ways of reaching farmers. One is directly trying to reach farmers through their mobile phones. But I think there are a lot of programs that are also just leveraging, you know, availability of mobile mobile phones in the community. So you can go through extension workers. If you know provide more real time information through extension workers, you may be able to reach farmers who don't actually have mobile phone access or in remote areas. You know, perhaps other dealers and other kind of lead farmers in other points of contact within communities. So that you can target in order to increase access to information. They're indirectly as well. So I don't have a specific person number that I can, you know, I can share. But I think that the probably that the proportion is very, very high at this point. Okay. Is there any panel members who want to add to that? I think it's also depends on the context, you know, and the condition in different countries, right? Any of you want to add to that? I don't see any hand from the panels. I also see quite a few of other question. For example, you know, Derek, Makiko, please, how can we find you? Okay, very interesting questions. I leave it to you later, Makiko, to explain to Derek where you are hiding in Rome. Okay. I see that. Okay. Alejandro Gomes, the problem of dry land is that they are dry. Climate change will intensify this condition, particularly in hot countries. Can you expand FAO suggested strategy to overcome this huge challenge, for instance, in Middle East or Mesoamerica? Some comments on water energy nexus in rural zones. I think this is not only for FAO. I think it's also open to all panelists, right? So perhaps I use my power to perhaps ask Jackie, what is your perspective on this, Jackie? How to, you know, to overcome this huge challenge, especially taking into account water energy nexus in the rural zone. Thank you. I was just thinking about water dry lands, because there is water. There is, you can condense water in the desert in the mornings. You can find groundwater. But what's happening is that when you get sudden rains like we're getting with climate change, it runs off. And we're not, it's not going into the water table. And so, yes, technically you're losing it. And I think that, again, this is a huge regional approach, because you can't fix the dry lands by fixing one corner of it. And then greening across the Sahel with trees and other vegetation. That's a good start, because if we can get it green, it will retain water. So decent crops that are not wasting water are not a bad way to start as well. And can I pass it to someone else now, Yodi? Yeah. Thank you, Jackie. That is helpful. Any other panel members want to contribute to that? If not, then I have a question also. Digital agriculture and new business models have a lot of potential to promote more resilient dry land systems. What are key bottlenecks to developing and scaling up successful model? Perhaps I would like to ask Temi or Tomoko to respond to that. Maybe start with Temi. No, thanks. Thanks very much, Yodi. I would say maybe two things. The first bottleneck would be that, you know, many, many of those business models are implemented by small and medium scale businesses on the continent. Many of those businesses struggle a lot. Struggle to access information, struggle to, you know, understand the political dynamics and how it affects their businesses, you know, struggle to access the right resources. Right. So I think one of the things we need to do is to encourage, you know, the creation of, you know, communities that encourage these businesses to be able to come together, work together and really support each other, learn from each other. Maybe that's just what they need to be able to scale, you know, unique innovative business models. And I've seen that in practice with the work we're doing. I mean, I'm also the executive chair at African Food Changemakers, which is a, you know, a hub or a community of entrepreneurs across the continent. And I'm beginning to see a lot of impacts on businesses that are within the hub. Currently, hub has members across more than 43 countries in Africa. And, you know, it keeps growing every day and it shows that it's just one of those critical things that is needed. The other second point would be every innovative business model, no matter how innovative it is. And I think we need to rethink, you know, the concept of financing for, you know, agricultural innovations or business innovations in Africa and ensure that those businesses have access to the right, you know, financing that is not expensive and that is, you know, competitive. Thank you, Temi. Tomoko, any addition from you briefly? Maybe just quickly kind of adding to Temi's last point about financing model. I think one thing, you know, that that's difficult is, you know, when you're building a service for like a small scale pilot, you know, time bound pilot. The things that you need to figure out to be successful there may not be the same as things, the questions that you need to figure out to create a long term sustainable model at scale. You know, it's about technology needs, the data security, quality maintenance, and, you know, of course, importantly, resourcing as well. So I think, I think that's kind of bringing in how, you know, the vision of how the service would really look like and what you need to figure out from the beginning, I think is something really important, but challenging because of the way a lot of the funding is structured. Yeah, thank you very much. Now, last question, and I hope the answer will be brief. I would like to direct it to Shami and Marcela for you to, you know, to answer. What are some of the key technologies and innovation that you think have potential to truly impact dryland ecosystems and market systems in the coming years? Marcela, you might want to reflect, you know, from your, you know, GCF experience and Shami from your own experience in Africa. Maybe Shami, you can start first. Yes, thank you very much. Yeah, I just want to speak from the context of addressing the key patent and challenges from a technological perspective, water, carbon and nutrients. And we need integrated solutions that help to conserve water and then ensure that we are adding sufficient and balanced nutrients and then as well as carbon. So there's a whole range of technologies that need to be fit into specific context. And conservation agriculture is one technology that, yes, great potential because it addresses all the three, you know, essential components. But we have to pay more attention to water harvesting, water conservation, and then combine that with nutrient inputs from organic resources and mineral fertilizers. But more importantly, also invest in the right crops and plant species that are adapted to the poor swales and low rainfall situations as well. And I want to highlight the role of legumes in the system where they can add high quality biomass for improving nitrogen supply that can actually add more nutrients through more sustainable processes. So, thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you, Shami. And Marcela? Yes, I think that it is very important to have technology in order to provide a weather forecast for farmers in terms of decision making. In El Salvador, for example, the big question every year is when should I plant? Yes. But still, we also need, for example, technical recommendations about how to prepare during the dry season just to face any event that can come within the rainy season. And sometimes farmers just harvest their crops and they forget about the plot. But in the meantime, they can still implement sustainable practices just to minimize the impacts. And so I think that that's very important. That's why I really was interested in what Tomoko shared about the app they already have. We are still working on how to provide this information to farmers. Thank you. Thank you very much, Marcela. Very useful. Colleagues, I know that there are many questions, you know, because drylands are so huge problems, so big opportunities are so big, you know, potential, you know, immense. I don't think we can solve all the questions at this webinar. Certainly from FAO part, what I can say is that we will continue, you know, to use this platform, you know, to advance the discussion. But because of time, you know, I really would like to end the webinar and it is my great honor to invite my colleagues, Mr. Abdul Hakim El-Wyer, the Assistant Director General and Regional Representative for North Africa, RNE, who is here with us. Thank you very much, Hakim El-Wyer, for your time. I know you are very busy. And with that, you know, we give the closing to you. Over to you, Hakim. Thank you. Hakim El- Yordi, thank you very much. And thank you to, I see Beth Bechtol here and all the colleagues. I'm really, really grateful for this opportunity. What a great pleasure that we have here today. Hakim El- It's indeed a very important webinar. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished guests, as we come to the close of this enlightening seminar on resilient dry lands innovating for sustainable agriculture, landscapes and livelihoods. Hakim El- I would like to express my deepest thanks gratitude to all our speakers for sharing their expertise and all to all participants for your active engagement throughout the day. Hakim El- I think this is a very important subject and I'm really grateful for everybody. Hakim El- I represent the Near East and North Africa region, which is one of the driest region and we'll hear more about it. Hakim El- It has been a privilege to learn about the innovative approaches that are being implemented in dry land regions across the globe. Hakim El- From Africa to Central America to everywhere else in the world, each contributing to the creation of more resilient agricultural landscapes and livelihoods. Hakim El- Indeed, dry land does not mean wasteland and does not mean wasteland. Hakim El- So the urgency for ecosystem restoration is very evident with nearly three quarters of the regions, rain fed cropland degraded and water scarcity projected to cause substantial Hakim El- economic loss by 2050. Hakim El- In the Near East and North Africa region alone, one of the driest regions in the world, we face similar challenges, including water scarcity, drought, desertification, land use rather land misuse, land use changes and degradation. Hakim El- All of which are exacerbated by the impact of climate change, leading to significant economic losses amounting to about $9 billion a year. Hakim El- Or up to about 7% of the national GDPs of our member countries. Hakim El- These issues have serious ramifications on the food security livelihoods and overall wellbeing of the populations, mainly living in dry lands. Hakim El- Yet these challenges are not insurmountable. Hakim El- The inspiring solutions that we've discussed and heard today, ranging from integrating traditional knowledge with cutting edge technologies to enhancing soil health and promoting agri-food entrepreneurship. Hakim El- Prove that there are clear pathways and hopes and opportunities to sustainable development in dry land areas. Hakim El- One key takeaway. Hakim El- From this webinar is that resilience in dry lands must be multifaceted. Hakim El- It cannot be a single direction. Hakim El- It is not just about increasing productivity, but also about preserving ecosystems, fostering innovation and building local capacities to adapt to shocks and stresses. Hakim El- Most importantly, it is about empowering the farmers and communities who are at the heart of these very challenging landscapes. Hakim El- Selfo pastoral strategies are particularly relevant to dry land areas with forests, woodlands, and mosaic of different land uses and tenor ecosystems. Hakim El- Trees in dry land forests and wooded areas provide essential ecosystems services, including animal feed, timber, fruits, shade, and regulation of soil and water cycles. Hakim El- Equally, livestock production is considered a key activity for food security. Hakim El- Local knowledge enhanced by research and innovation can create nature based solutions that improve food security. Hakim El- Support livelihoods and restore dry land ecosystems. Hakim El- All while safeguarding ecosystem services and achieving land degradation neutrality. Hakim El- I would like to highlight here in particular. Hakim El- The region from the nearest importance of the oasis regions. Hakim El- Most of the oasis that we have are in the middle of the dry lands and deserts. Hakim El- And there are key initiatives of creating alliances on oasis development that we'd like to focus on as we go in the future as one of the most fragile communities within dry lands. Hakim El- As we conclude the seminar, I urge each of you to take decisive actions. Hakim El- These are there are several key action areas that I wish to highlight as a result of today's discussion. Hakim El- Notably, as a development community, we must one invest in research and innovation. Hakim El- Let us intensify our efforts to develop and scale up technologies tailored to dry land conditions. Hakim El- This includes not only agricultural innovations, but also digital solutions that can empower farmers and real time information, big data analytics and improved market access. Hakim El- To promote policy integration. Hakim El- I urge policymakers to ensure that dry land agriculture. Hakim El- Is mainstream into net national development structures, climate action plans and food security policies. Hakim El- We need holistic approaches that recognize the interconnectedness of land, water and biodiversity management. Hakim El- Three foster partnerships. Hakim El- The complex challenges of dry land require collaborative solutions. Hakim El- Let us strengthen partnerships between governments, research institutions, the private sector, the local communities. Hakim El- If you all stand ready to facilitate these connections and provide technical support and guidance. Hakim El- Three. Hakim El- Sorry for empower local communities. Hakim El- We must ensure that the custodians of dry land ecosystems farmers, pastorals and indigenous people are at the heart of our interventions. Hakim El- Their knowledge and active participation are crucial for sustainable outcomes. Hakim El- Five scale up successful models. Hakim El- Many of the solutions presented today are ripe for scaling up. Hakim El- I challenge all stakeholders to identify successful initiatives that can be adapted and expanded in your respective regions. Hakim El- Six and last enhance knowledge sharing. Hakim El- The insights gained from this seminar webinar should not remain within these virtual worlds. Hakim El- I encourage you to disseminate this knowledge widely initiate follow up discussions and contribute to global platforms focused on dry land agriculture. Hakim El- Focusing more on local communities. Hakim El- The United Nations Decade for on ecosystem restoration which if I was co leading unit provides an excellent platform and an opportunity to disseminate. Hakim El- The best practices across regions. Hakim El- Ladies and gentlemen, and all participants to this webinar as we look ahead. Hakim El- To the 29th session of the F.O. committee on agriculture and the ongoing implementation of the global program on sustainable dry land agriculture. Hakim El- Your active engagement will be crucial. Hakim El- I would also like to acknowledge the collaboration between the committee on agriculture called and the committee on forestry. Hakim El- On cross sector matters. Hakim El- And the cooperation with members on scale up actions on agriculture and forestry linkages. Hakim El- In the Near East and North Africa region, we have reflected this collaboration on dry land restoration through our regional conference of the ministers of agriculture within our nearest region. Hakim El- The transformation of dry land agri food systems is not just an environmental necessity. Hakim El- It is a pathway to achieving multiple sustainable development goals, especially that we're approaching our target for 2030 and we know that we are 75% off track of all the sdgs. Hakim El- In closing, I want to express my heartfelt gratitude to all speakers participants and organizers of the community. Hakim El- who have made this seminar a success. Hakim El- It's indeed a lesson and a school to learn from for you know one single day. Hakim El- Your dedication to this cause is truly inspiring. Hakim El- Let us leave here today, not just with new knowledge, but with a renewed commitment for action. Hakim El- Together, we can build a resilient dry lands that sustain both people and the planet for generations to come. Hakim El- I really thank you, your D and the whole division for for for for organizing the seminar bringing people from different aspects and we at the Near Eastern North Africa region have learned a lot. Hakim El- That is64th, many people. Hakim El- One is a skill to build a proper concept we thank you all for trying to eradicate theanimity of LK. Hakim El- Thank you for being one of the driest regions in the world. Hakim El- Of how do we sustain our ecosystem's, especially in dry lands. Hakim El- so I'm really, really grateful for this opportunity and look forward for, will continue to lead to learn lessons from from such interactions. continue to learn lessons from such interactions. Thank you. Thank you very much, Hakim, for your really, really excellent summaries with six accent points that you urge all of us to come. We promise we'll follow up. The team with me will not just stop in this, let's say, you know, online webinar. We will go into action together. Colleagues, esteemed panel members, participants, you know, I noticed at some point we are more than 230 and now until now we are still close to 140. Allow me on behalf of FAO also and to second the point of Hakim to thank all of you for making this webinar really, a truly, you know, a platform for sharing, inspirational and also educational as Hakim said. Colleagues, with that, thank you so much. I wish you a nice evening, nice day and stay tuned. We will come back with more high quality webinar like this one. Thank you so much, colleagues, and bye bye.