Easiest Way to Tell if Your Soil is Healthy in Your Garden
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tiLQfCNkf7w
Education
 Alright, this is John Kohler with growingyourgreens.com coming at you from my front yard garden. And today's going to be one of my quickest episodes ever. And it's a way that everybody can use to find out the health of your garden. You know the health of your garden is only as healthy as the soil, much like us. We need to eat a healthy diet rich in fruits and vegetables so that we can be healthy. If we live on junk food, fast food, well you know what happens. Many people may be overweight, may get things like diabetes and other killer diseases of this day and age. So we want to know if our soil is healthy. What's one easy way to tell if your soil is healthy if you're not a soil agronomist and know all about this stuff or getting tests? Very simple. What we're doing is we're at the end of my season, I'm pulling out all my pepper plants. I've actually already harvested them all and you can see the little sticks coming out the ground. So just wait and tell if you're doing really good. You want to just pull out the root zone at the end of the season and you're going to look in there and check it out. We got lots of earthworms in there. There's one there, there's one there. If we just, oh here's another one. This is like a gray one. These are red wigglers. I mean if we just go through the soil and in the hole I just dug up, I mean, you know, there's worms, worms and more worms. I mean here's two right here. I mean, my soil is full of worms. This is a good sign. You might be thinking, John, don't the worms eat your roots man? No, the worms work on decayed matter in there. So like I add compost each and every year. The compost is not fully broken down. So the worms chow on that stuff and then they make worm castings. So literally all the worms inside here, probably the, I don't even know, thousands or millions of worms inside this raised bed that you're looking at are working for me and I don't even have to pay them. Because they're breaking down the organic matter and they're making worm castings which is really a good nutritious natural fertilizer which is how nature would work. Now worms are just a sign that your system in your soil is working appropriately. It's called the food soil web. So the food soil web starts with the, you know, the bacteria, the fungi, the arthropods, all the little creatures in there and then it also contains the worms. So we want to make sure we have a nice biologic system and active and living soil. In standard chemical agriculture, they want to kill everything in the soil man and just give the plants what it needs. No, I'm trying to model nature and put back organic input such as standard thermal based compost, fungal based compost, rock dust minerals, adding mycorrhizal fungi so that they colonize the roots. Actually you can kind of look through here and see that too, the mycorrhizal fungi. This is a piece of decayed wood and if you look very closely on there, I don't know if the camera can pick that up, it's kind of like white and then you can see a little fibrous hair right there. That's like fungi growing. And I see these white little like strands like all through my garden. So this is a good sign. These are some things you want to look for to tell if you have some really healthy soil and if you're up for the next growing season. I always encourage you guys to build your soil because the healthier plants are no better than the healthier soil. Hopefully you guys enjoyed this quick episode. Once again, my name is John Kohler with growingyourgreens.com. We'll see you next time. And remember, keep on growing.