Growing Tomatoes Earlier and Faster: One Idea (Alternative to Low Tunnels)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TJ8ua_EWBIc
Howto & Style
 Today we're going to talk about a strategy that I'm using to grow tomatoes earlier and faster. So stay tuned. So based on my research, there's basically two ways to make something grow faster. Give it more light, increase the temperature, particularly the soil temperature. And so that's what we're doing here with the soil temperature. We've had some freezing nights normally that would have killed off tomatoes, but I just have some 3 mil plastic here with some, I think, 12 or 14 gauge wire bent over. And then actually I have a little hole dug down there. I don't know if you can see it. And then at the bottom of the hole is the tomato. So what I'm going to do now, the problem with this is it raises the temperature like 20 degrees soil temperature. Basically it's the same strategy used for solarization of soil, but just with cooler weather. And we're about having an 82 degree day. And I'm just worried that it's going to fry them if it pushes it much above 100 in there. And so I'm going to cut some holes in there and we'll, you'll see how that works. Okay. Okay. So my hope is that these little vent holes are going to, and by the way, can you see the tomato at the, let me see if you can see the tomato down there. Hopefully you can see the tomato in there and that, those vent holes are going to keep that little tomato plant happy. And then, um, the heat of the soil around it is going to keep it from freezing during the cold parts of the night. Um, we'll see how that works. All right. Yep. It's a bit scary. I mean... I mean... It's a bit scary. Not so... Especially when you imagine a tomato, like this is an egg. Is this it? Yeah. Yeah. It's not... It's not... It's not in the water. It's a bit scary. It's not... It's not a fake medic. It's not a fake medic. And it's not fifty-five. It's not a fake medic. It's a fake. It's not too font. It's a fake medic. It's not a fake medic. I mean...