Employee Training: Johnson Tractor 2012 Dealership of the Year
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TpC1CE1XlGM
Autos & Vehicles
 In a small community in the Pacific Northwest, a dynamic company is growing. This company has served the equipment dealer market for 30 years. They did it by following their principles, by being the best and by being honest to their customers. DIS. Technology Driven. People Focused. We do a great deal of training. We talked about this earlier with our technicians in particular, product updates. Things are always changing. We spend a great deal of time and money on training to make sure they have the latest knowledge on what's going on with the machinery, any updates, what have you. We're fortunate that we are close to Racine, where there is a great deal of case training available as well as Iowa. But our salespeople as well. They need to learn about the new products every year. So they're going. And in our parts and other areas, we look for opportunities. If someone has an interest in something that they might like to attend, we're certainly willing to support that as well. But we see it mostly in our technician area. We try to keep a good handle on the classes they have had and classes that they might be interested in taking. We want to make sure that a technician has the service level one before they move to a service level two. That's just the simple bookkeeping part of it. But it also tells us areas, make sure we have certified technicians in all areas. You don't want to sell a piece of equipment if you don't have the people there to service it and support it. So Case is good about tracking it for us, but we like to do that as well. To make sure we're covering all the bases of the products that we sell. In a small community in the Pacific Northwest, a dynamic company is growing. This company has served the equipment dealer market for 30 years. They did it by following their principles, by being the best and by being honest to their customers. DIS Technology Driven, People Focused.