Upgrading Ranch with Free-Choice Minerals & Paddock Rotation with Just 1 Strand of High-Tensile Wire
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ts189q0v-1Q
People & Blogs
 Ben got a new free choice mineral feeder. Pretty snazzy. I think it comes with, let's see, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 18 different minerals, vitamins and minerals. Pretty cool. He's going to move the cows into this field right here just for one single day and have them just kind of eat the remains before we let it grow for about a month and a half. Then we're going to burn that huge brush pile this fall. We had a bunch of walnut trees removed off the property last year, was it? Yeah, last year. Then these are the remains of those. That's one pile. There are several remaining piles around the property. We've burned one already. I think we've burned two actually. We've burned two. But I don't think I can see any more from here. But these free choice mineral feeders, they come with a skid on the bottom of them. So that's pretty cool. So if you have a winch or if you have something to tow it with. I say a winch, that's not really what I meant. I think the winch is in the front. But if you have a tow hitch, then you can hook it up. I think it's supposed to hook up to a four-wheeler too. Seems like it would get kind of heavy hooked up to a four-wheeler, but maybe not. So the idea behind free choice minerals, if you've never heard of them or never used them, is that each mineral is in its own individual box. And the animal can go and choose the mineral that it needs from the box and leave the others that it doesn't. And it has to do with the intelligence of the animal and knowing what it wants much better than we do. You know, they do it for sheep, they do it for goats, they do it for cattle, horses. So we finally got ourselves a free choice mineral feeder. I'm so stoked about that. And we're going to see what our animals go to the most. It has a little, I say little, it has a thin black, I guess I can zoom in for you. It has a thin black piece that lays over the top and the animals can just lift it up. And underneath lies all of their nutrients. Recognize sodium. But, so they can just choose potassium if they're low on potassium, you know. Or iron if they're low on iron. Or zinc. It's just all up to the animal's needs and what the animal's body wants at that time. Maybe I'll do some sort of a free choice mineral feeder for the ducks too, right? I don't know what they would choose. I think they would choose everything and you would never be left with anything. Because they would just eat everything. They do like to eat. There's Ben. There's Ben. Are you getting my nails? Hopefully not. Got a few of them. Did you see them break? Yeah. I'm going to get my log chain now. Okay. That ain't going to break. The side by side will break first. So that's what was going on. His rope kept breaking on him. So he's going to go get the log chain. But what's nice about these free choice feeders is that you can really see maybe what exactly your land is lacking. You know. So they used to say, what's that old saying? If you've got brooms hedge then it's a lime issue. I think is what they said. Because they're talking about the pH balance in the soil being too acidic. You need some lime to make it more alkaline. Well the same can be said that if I guess your animals are eating all, you know, I don't even know, iron or zinc or something, then your field is lacking in that. So you need some more plants that provide hardy minerals like that. But we haven't tried it yet so we don't know what ours is lacking or is not lacking. I think it would be a riot to get the ducks up in there, you know. I just think it would be funny. Make their own little feeder and eh. That would be funny. Well Ben's back. He's going to hook up the free choice. Little mineral feeder. You know this is the same one that Greg Judy uses. And one time we were at his, Greg Judy's farm at their grazing school and we asked, you know, have you ever lost, you know, he allows sheep I think to use it and goats and stuff like that. And he has a modified covering for it. But I said, have you ever lost a sheep or a goat inside? And he said, yeah, because the animals, I think it wasn't a sheep. I think he lost a calf or something because a sheep got up on top of it and then crushed its neck as it was feeding. So there's definitely some hazards you got to be aware of with the top since it does come down. But I think Greg Judy modified it somehow. You can post in the comments if you remember that Greg Judy modification that he did. But it's pretty nice. I mean, it is the little skids that it comes on. You know, they are just straight wood. So I would say that we should put some sort of like rubber and metal on the bottom of the skids just so that they don't deteriorate as quickly as they would if we don't do that. So that's what I told Ben when I saw it is, hey, let's add some metal and rubber. Rubber first then metal on the bottom so it slides easier. It was pretty cool watching him get it out. He lifted it out with his tractor from the, I think it was like a 28 foot trailer that it came on. He did a good job. I've been enjoying Rancher Ben. He's a lot of fun. Alright, let's see if we can get this pulled out. Because before Ben was Rancher Ben, Ben was Cableman Ben. So he used to do all sorts of cabling and fiber splicing. I think I've said that in a few different videos. But he always wanted to do this and be a farmer and we always wanted land. And I especially just wanted my own place. And I picture myself owning thousands of acres one day. Never say never, right? Why not me? And yeah, it's been about heaven ever since. We moved here. We're in Fair Play, Missouri. We moved here in February of, what was it? 2022? 2022 I believe. Yep, we've pretty much been in heaven ever since. Pretty nice area. So Ben's hooking up that chain. And like I said, they say you can pull these Free Choice Mineral Feeders with a four-wheeler. I just, I don't know. I don't know. It's gotta be one... 34-wheeler. They weigh like 800 pounds or so, probably more than that. It's probably a huge underestimation. There we go. Now it's on the move. And stopped. I actually don't know where he's moving it to. It's kind of funny. Let me zoom out and show you. Like I said, this whole field... So we finally got it. What he was trying to do. I guess just move it to a specific low-lying spot. Put my phone up and see if you see it any better. I'm a little short at 5'3". I think it can't get up as far. Well that's perfect. But like I was saying, this little tiny paddock here extends from right over there in the corner. All along here. There's that fencing. All along that fencing, that is a waterer right there. All along that fencing to this corner right here. And then it's also got a... So this is where we normally keep the bowls in the paddock. So it's got a hard-lined hotline, hotwire. What am I trying to think? Shocking wire for bowls. And then it continues on this fence line here. Right here, right here, right here. All the way over. Down, around, over here. And to the tree line. And back over. So it's a small little paddock. Oh, looks like he's... So he was pulling it off of... What is that called again? Why can't I think of that? I should know exactly what that's called. Rather a large one. But anyways, pulling off a box crate, whatever the heck it is. I can't remember what that's called. Someone's going to put it in the comment as I can't remember a normal word that I say often. But, uh, sweet. So anyways, they'll be in this little field for about a day. And then they'll get to experience their little Free Choice Mineral Feeder. And then they're going to move to the far back field. Way back there. See those trees? Way far back there. There's a field behind that. Actually, I think there's a field right in front of those way back there. That they're going to. So it should be good for them. Lots of new grass back that way. Um, we don't hay our fields generally. Uh, generally we like to bring in fertilizer that others have already paid for and laid it on our fields that way. Um, if you hay your fields, you have to add back fertilizer or you have to burn the field. Um, so we did have two hay field this year. And that's because we could not find any hay. It was crazy. We just could not find any hay bales. For sale or otherwise. So we purchased some. Always lifting the flap up for you now. So that's the inside of the minerals. Like I said, they're little boxes. We'll get up closer a little bit later once he starts moving. Actually, maybe I'll do it before he starts moving. But uh, sure. Let's walk over. And I can't remember what I was talking to you guys about, but. Obviously, we're supposed to keep going. He's cutting it now. So I'm gonna go over there. Kind of check it out a little bit before. Gates already open since they're gonna be driven in later. They're gonna be driven across this field from this gate. Across the road to this open gate. The grass is pretty good here. Pretty good grass in this field. Since been mowed, the number of grasshoppers has gone down drastically. It was pretty crazy earlier this year. And this is horse nettle. See this? See this horse nettle here? Blooming everywhere right now. Looks like a tomato. It's a nightshade. So it's like a potato family, tomato family. Here's a flower. I'm just gonna see if I can find a flower real quick. See how it looks a ton like a potato flower. If you know anything about your plants, this looks exactly like a tomato or a potato flower. But it's got a lot of solanine in it. So it's toxic as well. But it's super medicinal. It can be used medicinally. But it's toxic. I kind of snuck up on him. What are you doing? Oh. I just got to cut down some of these really thick weeds that are really spiky. I was gonna check it out. Pretty sweet. Yeah. If it's so spiky. Oh my gosh. It's so heavy. Yeah. How do they get their head in there? Oh my gosh. Wow. There it is. Pretty sweet. Smells like wood. Cut wood. Cool. See the other side. When are you letting him in? Seems pretty sweet. If they get up over here, they'll go over there and take the drops over, they'll follow the top. Yeah. Goodness, this is so cool. We will see which ones they choose. Fix. Isn't it poly braid? Yeah. I don't know. Hard to say, really. So poly braid is super expensive and I used it as regular rope and cut it like I would regular rope to fence in the ducks as a temporary cage before I sold all the drakes. That's what he's referring to. It's expensive because you can make it electric, electrify it. It's a very nice braid, braided wire. If you've never seen it, get closer. It's not electric right now. But it looks like this. Braided little pieces. Pretty cool. Poly wire. Just tie it easily. It can come off easily. Nice stuff. Nice. Nice. Puttin' in little like plastic T-post things. What are these even called? They're timeless. Uh, they're not timeless. They're just little, uh, insulator, insulator posts. What's insulator posts? Temporary posts. Temporary insulator posts. They have just like a prong at the bottom like you would and just throw them in there. Attach your wire about, what, a foot or two off the ground. One wire. And that's enough. This one's long enough. Okay. Oh, on the spool? They're pretty trained to it. That's for sure. Cows. It's all you need and they won't touch it. Not even a bull. Not gonna touch it. But maybe if you have sheep or something, make it a little lower. Not long enough? No. I'd say it might be if I tie some sheep together or something. It's a nice easy jaunt from field to field though. The fence is opening up over here. And I'll come running through there later on. I do have some funny footage of the cows hanging out in here from last night that I didn't know what to do with. Maybe I'll put that in here right now. I'm going to go. I don't know. I don't know if it's in the coil. It'll show it, man. Oh, they all cough from time to time. Look at these little calves. They're so cute. They're so cute. We still got the other one over here. Just eating away at that spinach. Mm-hmm. Wild spinach. They're loving that. Oops. Now they're eating the wild lettuce. They're loving that too. Uh-huh. Nice. I wonder what... It looks like 17 in there. What is that 17? Inside there. Eating with the calves. Can't tell. I can't tell. This calf was born like in February, right? Or March? Uh-huh. Probably March or April. No cat. Big cat. You're four or five months old. Yeah. Good looking cat. Let's check on our... dude. Here. Get right by her side. I can't tell. It's the way. I can't tell. It's the way. I can't tell. I can't tell. I can't tell. Oh. Whoa. He's going to fade her. I don't know. There's no bummer. Get inside now. There. There. Whoa. Staying right there. Don't you fucking know. Yeah. How number? Ooh. What number was that? Oh, I can't tell. It's a little T-blade. He is right beside her. Psych it off. Yep. Just cows hanging out in that wild lettuce over there. Pretty funny. But there's a huge paddock behind here. There. And it goes... Let's see. It starts all the way over here at the driveway. In that corner. It goes all the way back. All the way, all the way, all the way. I think it's about a 20-acre paddock. Straight back there to the far westerly line of the property. Past the little hay barn back there. So there's the... Let's see. I guess that's not the hay barn. Oops. Sorry. It's the dairy barn. So past the dairy barn. Then past the hay barn. All the way back there. And it goes down... I don't know how far. Like I said, about 20 acres. And that's the part that we hayed this year. This field. You can see the real tall grass over there is Johnson grass. This looks like blue grass. Maybe not. Crap grass. We'll see. Is it long enough? Oh. I'm going to have to improvise. Why don't you tie it to the chain over on the door? On the side of the door. Yeah. Make it a tiny bit longer. I'll bring it up too high though. Bring it up too high. Yeah. A little cadmage underneath it. What are we going to do here? Improv with regular string? Improv with regular string? Yeah. I'm going to keep all the trunking back here for some reason. Me too. Yeah. I'm going to keep it up too. Yeah. They won't be able to tell the difference. I say that. That'll be the one spot they jump through. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Weak spot. How long do you think it'll take them to come up from where they are? Hopefully they'll come up here pretty soon. It's getting cooler. Maybe coming out. We'll find out. Looks like the cows were ready for Ben before Ben was ready for the cows. Because they are all over by the fence. Ready to go through their little area right here. And then they just heard him coming in way over there. That's him. And side by side. And now they're all running. Little do they know they're about to turn around and go exactly back where they came from. They're psycho. They are so psycho. One little straggler. They're all over by Ben. And then he's going to be walking them all back over here. I don't know if you can hear my kids wrestling inside. Oh got a little straggler. So that's the plan. He's going to take them from all the way over here all the way around around around around around around back here through the open gates where we just saw him do the tinsel wire. Poly wire. Poly I think it's like high tinsel wire over here. And then they're going to end up in that field right there. Let's go see what progress he's made. I hear him revving up. I hear the girls kind of being psycho nearby. Yep. He's on the move. I have a feeling they're on the move. Let's see if we can get him. As they start falling him over here. Although they're definitely moving quick behind him. You'll see it in just a second. Any sec he's going to come around the corner. There he is being led by a cow. Here they come. They are running fast. So we'll see them a lot better right here. And we'll kind of watch them as they run through. Pretty easy to move these girls. And boys. I think he's got about 30 head right now. He said. New ones popping out every day. We are going to be selling quarter cow, half cow, full cow. So if you're interested we'll be posting about that soon. And if you're interested in any of the products you make here. Check out grandfamfarm.com All of our products are listed up there on the website. Here comes the first group. Those are little, not even yearlings. Those are little heifer calves. Heifer and bull calves. They don't get it. They don't know for sure where they're going. This is what Ben's worried about. They're going to go through the wrong way. But let's see. Make for some great YouTube videos, right? Here they come right beside him. What are they going to do when they get to the end? Do they know where they're going? How are they going? He hasn't opened it yet. It looks like they are more than ready. All right. So he's going to open up the fence and they should just run right through. Got a little beater stick. It's not a beater stick, just kind of like a paddle stick. You ever had a paddle back in the day? My mom used to have a paddle. I didn't paddle a time or two. But just for pure safety. I love my husband, don't want him to lose his life. These are very calm girls, but you never know. So having a paddle is not a bad thing. Well, the gate is open, folks. So let's see if they go through there or what they're going to do. We've got these two little polytensile wires right here. See them just strung across the drive. So Ben's hoping they just follow him right across. Let's see. Got the feeders. Ooh, I don't like that sound. All right. It's working. Even the little ones made it. Oh, so I say. Yep. Everybody made a cross. Awesome. It's a success. I'm excited to see how they react to the minerals. They smell it all right. Oh, they figured it out. That's awesome. They just figured it out. They're so smart. Yes, they just went in there and lifted their head up. They just lifted it up with their head. So Ben's unhooking their feeders. Because he likes to give them a little bit of treats. And they know what's coming. Aw. So they give them some corn and beans. Pouettes. Yeah, pampered cows. Call them pampered cows. Call them large dogs. Here is what it is. As long as he doesn't get trampled in the process, we're good. I don't know if you can tell from some of the videos, but I'm a little nervous around cows. Not just cows. Cattle. In general. I don't know why. At our old house, we had this cow named Reba. And she had bright red hair. She was so funny. And Reba really liked kids. And really liked people. And that scared the crap out of me. One time I was out in the woods with the kids. And we were just walking through. I think it was snowing. And we were just kind of hanging out in the snow. And I smelled a stench. And I looked behind me. And Reba is six inches away from my face. She's just a huge... What was she? She was a... She was a red cow. She wasn't a Hereford. Well, I should know what she was. But she wasn't anything pure, what we have right now. But... Big old girl. And yeah, she was six inches from my face. Never did anything. But then Ben's dad scared me with a lot of horror stories about cows becoming enraged and just killing their owners for seemingly no reason. I wasn't there. I can't blame the cow. Maybe the owner had a reason. But... I don't know. I'm cautious around them. Look at those udders. Goodness mama. She must be the... Newest mama of them all, I would imagine. There's one happy little crew. And then... Got this little straggler over here. Trying to figure out what is in this mineral feeder. Seems like it's going to be some really good stuff. I think you're right about that. Oh. Oh, gosh. Tiramisu. Tiramisu. Alright. I'm going to show you what Ben's doing real quick. Because I saw he got out his sprayer. He's got vegetable oil in there. He sprays the cows with vegetable oil to keep the flies off. If you've never tried vegetable oil, it works just as well as any of the other commercial fly sprayers. And it's a whole lot cheaper. And it's great. And especially if you haven't gotten rained. I mean, it's going to last... We haven't gotten rain in Missouri. Well, Missouri's gotten rain. But where we happen to be located... Has not. We're located in a rare little gem area. And the lake just seems to lately just want to split that rain right up. And so we haven't gotten a lot of rain. But it's good for the fly spray. I say that. Because it'll last a whole lot longer. But just like any other commercial fly spray. If it rains, then it's going to wear off. And you have to reapply. So that's the one nice thing about no rain. You don't have to reapply the cow spray. Fly spray is often. All right. All right. Folks. Oh, look at that little baby. That is the newest little calf. He or she is adorable. Got that coffer over there. Tiramisu coffer. All right. It's an office quote. Don't want the office you have a scenario I'm talking about. But all right. That's one cute little calf. And one handsome dude. All right. I think that is it for the video for me tonight. It was a successful move of the cattle. Now they're going to stay in this field for, like I said, one day. We do rotational grazing. So they do not stay in a field. For more than large fields, they'll stay in there for up to two weeks at a time. But in smaller fields like this, where it's a little bit over an acre, barely an acre, they're only going to be in the field for about a day. They're going to trample everything down. Eat the tops off of the grass. And then get out of there for a month and a half or more. And they'll be moved around the other six paddocks here. I think there used to be eight paddocks, but then enlarged them or changed their shape. So there are six of them now. And they range in size. I don't know. From 40 acres to 60 acres to 30. I mean, they're all kind of in that area. And then you've got little ones like this. This was to hold bulls, like I said before. So you've got that hot wire around the edge. I think I talked about it in another video, but Ben is building his registered Angus, Black Angus herd. So he's got some embryos in his commercial herd, his girls that aren't registered. And he's got five of them in there. And he believes, oh goodness, careful girl. He believes that one of them didn't take. Because we saw the bull up on her. But the other one should have taken. And we'll have ourselves a growing registered herd in the spring. Because I think all of them are due in the spring. We like to calve out in the spring and in the fall. Keep it with the deer when they like to calve out. We don't calve out in the winter. It's hard to keep animals alive then. And it's not safe for them sometimes. That's how we feel. But to each their own. Alright folks, that is it for me for today. Actually, I keep saying that. And then Ben goes and does something interesting. That's not it for me. He's going to lift it up and show them what's in here. And they like it. Alright guys. Have a great night. Good luck and good health.