How to Grow Vegetables in Containers // Container Gardening
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tsrBSD7l7i4
Howto & Style
 Hey guys. So I've been working on setting up my small space garden and what that means is mostly containers. And because I've had some issues with bindweed and bermudagrass in the vegetable garden, I'm actually going to be expanding my small space garden. Not by size, but I'm going to try to be fitting even more containers into it while I figure out and deal with the weed issue in the main vegetable garden. And working with all the pots, it got me thinking of a question that I'm asked very, very often. And that is what size pot is best for what vegetable crop. And so I thought today I would go through all of that with you and just finally nail that down. And I know container gardening, especially if you're new to it, it can get a bit overwhelming, especially when you're figuring out what size pot do I put all these crops in. But I promise you, once you get it figured out and you will after today, it's going to be really rewarding. Now, before we get started, I just wanted to mention that we are doing a big giveaway at the end of this video. In fact, Grassroots, who I got most of these containers from and some of the fabric raised beds that are in my vegetable garden, they're going to be giving away $175 gift card to one of you, but we'll get into that at the end of the video. So stick around. All right, let's start with tomatoes, probably the biggest diva of a container garden. As you can see, this tomato plant has more tomatoes on it than it's cut leaves almost, because I have it in the right size pot, and I'm not over fertilizing it. Now, if you want to know all the tips on fertilizing, I'll put a link down in the video description from last week's video about fertilizer mistakes. You can grow a tomato in a five gallon bucket. However, and this is kind of the idea with all of these that I'm going to be giving you, there are minimum size containers, and then there are ideal size containers. Now, an ideal size for a tomato plant is 15 to 20 gallons, which is what this pot is. It's just a pot that I got a tree in from a nursery. And the reason I say there are minimum requirements, and then there are ideal requirements, is because the more soil you have in a pot, the easier it is to regulate the moisture and the nutrients in that pot. Small pots dry out faster, and they leach nutrients faster. Plus, when you're growing something that needs a stake or a cage, you just want enough soil in there to be able to put the stake in and have it be anchored to something, right? A little tiny pot's not going to do that. And a little pot is not going to have the weight with the soil in it to be able to keep it from getting top heavy when these plants get big. All right, next up is peppers. And peppers are not as big of divas as tomatoes when it comes to growing them in containers. In fact, you can get away with three to five gallons. Now, I've got two peppers here in a seven gallon grow bag or fabric pot, depending on what you call it. I grow peppers in pairs, pretty close together. In fact, if you've got two in one little plug that you started seeds from, both seeds came up, you can go ahead and put that in a pot together. They seem to enjoy growing like that. No more than two. But when they're close together, the leaves help to shade each other's fruit, which prevents sun scald. And they also seem to kind of help hold each other up that way. If you're in a hot climate, that's great. Peppers love the heat, but they also need to hold on to moisture. So again, bigger pots are better. And they also need room for their roots to spread out and to breathe. They don't want to be in something super tight, or they're going to get cranky and their growth might get stunted. Now, this is not the time of year for us here in Southern California to grow almost any type of greens. Chard, maybe kale, those would be fine. But any lettuces or arugula or anything like that, they're going to bolt very quickly coming up here soon. The heat's coming and it's just not a good match. But if you have a cooler summer, or if you're watching this right now and it's fall and you're getting ready to plant greens and you want to do it in containers, let's go over it. Other than regular size kale and Swiss chard, those are two greens that get pretty big and they are going to need at least a seven gallon container, especially kale that grows tall. You need that weight of that container to keep it from flopping over. But for most greens like arugula, lettuces, some of the smaller Asian greens, you can get away with a really small pot. Now, again, a really small pot, you're going to have to pay more attention to the moisture and the fertilization schedule. But if you want to grow them in a small pot, you can do that. Most of those types of crops only need about six to eight inches of soil. So a small bowl, a trough, reusing gallon size pots from the nursery or something like this. Those would all be great for those type of greens. But you also want to remember if you're working on size and not necessarily budget, a bigger pot is going to be able to grow more lettuce than many small pots because you've got the space between the pots that isn't accounted for with small pots. Whereas a 20 gallon size pot like this, you can grow a lot of lettuce in there. Greens like cool weather, consistent moisture. So if you're growing in small pots, again, you got to keep an eye on those during hot weather and you might want to move them more into the afternoon shade to just keep them going a little bit longer. And if you harvest them right, you can grow several rounds of lettuce in a small pot. You want to use the cut and come again method, which means don't cut it off at the base. You can either pluck the leaves around the edge or you can leave about an inch and just cut the whole thing off. And then that will grow back and you'll have another cutting from it later. And you can get two to three harvests out of one lettuce plant that way. Now, root vegetables like carrots and beets, you've really got to pay attention to the depth of the pot that you're growing them in. You're going to want something from, for the most part, about 12 to 14 inches deep. So we're not talking in gallons necessarily. But you want deeper pots because guess what? Carrots have long roots. They grow deep. Now, if you're growing little short stubby carrots like Parisian or Littlefinger, you don't necessarily have to worry about that so much. But longer varieties like Danvers and Nantis, you want to make sure that you read the seed package or the description on the website or wherever you get it in the catalog and see how long those carrots are and just make sure that your pot is a couple inches deeper than that. Also, you don't want to add too much nitrogen to the pots of carrots especially and no manure in those pots at all. Those two things can make carrot roots fork and get twisted and weird and sometimes obscene. And always use loose, well-draining soil, no rocks, no little stones. Those will also make carrots fork. All right, next is cucumbers. I've got my cucumbers growing in my green stock. I've got lots of things growing in this green stock actually. But don't be fooled by the small looking nature of the pockets on the green stock. That's not the only soil they have. In fact, the entire center of the green stock all the way down is full of soil. That's why you can get away with growing so much in such a small space other than the fact that it's also stacked into a tower. But you can also grow them in a pot like this. You can grow them up a teepee and they'll do great. Cucumbers are very prolific in pots. You can just, I mean, if you have the space, you can just let them ramble out of the pot onto the ground or into a path. You could get away with five gallons if you watch the watering, but again, bigger is better. And I think 10 gallons would let you be a little more hands-off and you get a better harvest that way. One mistake I made the first couple of times that I grew cucumbers in pots is not realizing once they're fruiting, how much water they need. And they're typically fruiting in the warmest part of the year. So those two factors, a bigger pot is better or keep an eye on the watering. In this seven gallon pot is zucchini. Now zucchinis do get big. They tend to want to trail through the garden. So if you're growing them in a raised bed or in the ground, you're going to notice they kind of snake through the bed eventually as the season goes on. Now in the ground and in pots, you might've noticed in this pot, I've got it planted against a stake at the edge of the pot. And you might never have seen a zucchini growing on a stake. We're not talking about like climbing winter squash. We're talking about a zucchini. If from the very beginning you train them and you tie them to that stake as they grow, you can grow a zucchini vertically. I'll put a link to a video I did all about this in the description. So for the reason that they take up a lot of water and nutrients and are big plants, you want as big of a pot as you can manage. This is a minimum. Seven is a minimum. You also want the weight of that pot if you're going to be growing them up a stake. Because guess what? When they're three feet tall and they got fruit on them, they're pretty heavy. The other great thing about growing zucchini vertically is it tends to attract more pollinators. You've got the flowers kind of more up in the air. They're not covered by all the leaves of the garden. And it also gets the fruit off the ground. So if you have any critters eating your fruit, if it's up growing on a stake, they tend to leave it alone. It's also great for helping control powdery mildew, which at least here my zucchini get every year. But if you're growing them up a stake, it improves the airflow of the leaves and it can push that powdery mildew off by at least a month or two. Now, just so you know, you don't have to remember all this. So if you're taking notes, that's great, but you don't have to. All you have to do is go to our free growing guide and you put in whatever plant you're growing and it will tell you what size pot. It'll tell you everything about how to grow that plant, including how much water to give it, depending on how you water. Soaker hose, hose, drip system. It's just a no brainer. So gardenguide.com, totally free. So we've got some herbs growing here in the green stock. I've got some parsley and some basil. And for the most part, herbs can be grown in smaller containers, one gallon, two gallon for the annual herbs, parsley and basil. When you get into the perennial herbs like mint, rosemary, those are going to keep growing for you. If you live in a climate where you can do that, I think probably zone eight and up. And so it's better to have those in bigger pots so they can grow into that pot and you're not going to have to be repotting them. Now, if you live in a climate that gets too cold, you can grow all of them in small pots. In fact, a lot of the Mediterranean herbs like rosemary and thyme, they're very drought tolerant. So you don't have to be quite as worried about watering a small container with those herbs as you would, let's say, basil. And while we're speaking of herbs and containers, one herb that you will always want to grow in a container, even if you have five acres of garden space, is mint. Mint, as soon as it gets into the ground, it will take over and you will be sorry that you ever planted mint. So keep it in a container, keep it contained. Now we just spoke about beans and I'm growing my beans in this green stock. They're actually just new plants and they're already pretty productive. Now this green stock has a lot of soil in it. As I mentioned, it's not just the little pocket that you see the plant coming out of. So beans would be great in a seven gallon pot. If they're bush beans, you could probably fit three bush beans in a seven gallon pot. If they are pole beans, meaning they need a trellis, you want to probably go to about a 10 or more gallon pot again to have some space for that trellis to be put in and also to keep it from being top heavy. How about strawberries? Strawberries have shallow roots. I've got mine here and I've got a whole tower in this green stock of strawberries and they've been pretty productive this year. Now the green stock is actually great for strawberries. When I had my strawberries in the ground, they were always attacked by pests. The pests would get every single one before I could. I have a much better chance of harvesting these without the pests getting on them when they're not laying on the ground and they're here up in the air. Just keep strawberries damp at all times and containers are also great if you live in a cold climate. I think zone five and below and they're going to freeze in a container. You won't be able to keep them like you would in the ground, but a container you can take into a garage or a greenhouse in the winter. So if you're feeling unsure about pot sizes, use this video or use gardenguide.com and you're not going to have to feel unsure anymore. It's all spelled out right here for you. Just remember water leaves containers faster and nutrients leave containers faster. So just keep an eye on that. Put your finger in the soil two inches deep. If you feel moisture, you don't need to water. If it's dry, water. The best way to fertilize containers is to use a organic liquid fertilizer. I use Neptune's harvest. I have discounts on that. I'll leave them down below in the video description, but just feed that half strength on a weekly basis. That way you get kind of a habit, a pattern that you get used to every week, every Monday or fertilizer Fridays. I heard someone say just half strength, water all of your plants that way, and you're going to keep them hydrated and you're going to keep them fed throughout the growing season. All right. I hope this gave you some real world guidance on pot sizes. If it did consider subscribing, give the video a thumbs up. And now let's talk about our giveaway. Grassroots is the creator of these, uh, grow bags or fabric pots that you see here. Now I have never been able to grow in grow bags. We live in a hot, dry climate and grow bags always dried out. I would have to water them two to three times a day in the summer. And that's not feasible, but these grow bags have the living soil technology, meaning they have this liner here that is food safe, of course. And that liner goes about three quarters down the pot. It stops right here. And this is just fabric that allows these fabric containers to do best what people get grow bags for. And that is root pruning. When roots touch the edge of the pot and they feel that oxygen there from the outside world, rather than in a regular pot, the roots just kind of coil around and strangle the plant. Eventually, if you've been to the garden center and got an old plant, so you know what that looks like. It prunes the roots, meaning it cuts them off and makes them branch. And just like when we're pinching back plants, it causes a better root system, just like pinching back plants causes a bushier plant. And so that's what you want these pots to do. And that's mostly done in the bottom quarter of the container. And the top three quarters of the container, you don't really need that as much. And so this liner helps hold the moisture in. And I literally cannot grow in any other type of fabric container or grow bag than these type of pots. And they're really affordable and they last, I know not forever, but I've been here four years this year and I brought my two raised beds and some pots from our last house. So they're at least five years old and they have no signs of slowing down. They have no signs of needing to be replaced. So I think that's probably one of grassroots problems is they make their pots last too long, but that's good for us. All right. So how do you enter the giveaway? First of all, I want to say that I haven't done a giveaway in a long time because every time we do a giveaway scammers show up in the comments and they say you've won to almost everybody call this number. It's usually a WhatsApp number. And then they will try to scam you out of money by charging you some kind of high shipping charge to send you your prize. That's not how it works. When we have a sponsor, the sponsor pays for the shipping. They, they, they pay for everything. You don't pay for anything. So just to make it easier, we're going to do this a little bit differently. So there's two things to do if you want to enter for the $175 gift card to grassroots one comment on this video and let me know why you grow in containers or why you want to grow in containers. The second thing is there's a link in the video description, click on that link, give us your email so that we will be able to contact you directly by email. If you win, we will not be giving your email to anybody else that stays with us. So that's all you have to do. Good luck. We're giving you seven days. So on July 5th, this, this giveaway runs through July 5th. So if you're not seeing this on the day it comes out, that's okay. You've got a week, but on July 5th, we're going to randomly pick a winner and we'll contact you by email to let you know you've won. All right. Good luck guys. I'll see you next time. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye.