caution with cover crops as dry hay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TTNUOQS6jds
People & Blogs
 Look at that big beautiful stand. That is all volunteer. That's all volunteer. I haven't seen these weeds in a long time and then the one time I roll this field over now we got it like this. We're going to make cattle feed out of it but look at that. Look at that compaction fighting root. That is just awesome. That is just awesome. Remember a lot of these brassicas do not promote micro rhizal fungi life. That's why the roots come up clean as they don't really produce or they don't really partnership that symbiotic relationship with much soil life. At least that's what my research has led. If I'm wrong let me know. But I'll spin the camera around and we'll talk a little bit about using this as cattle feed quick and some cautions. Okay guys just a super quick video. If you are whatever the scenario is you seeded a cover crop, a neighbor seeded a cover crop, you or him or somebody's going to bale it up for some dry hay. If that's the plan do some thinking and some research before you even seed the cover crop mix. Whether we call this mustard, canola, yellow rocket, whatever we want to call this is a great recycler of sulfur. That's awesome because next year there's going to be sulfur breaking down in this plant matter if we just leave it out here to die. If we bale this up a high sulfur content in dry hay can lead to a sickness in the cattle. A pretty serious sickness. So if we're going to bale this up which I'm going to do. We're then going to do a feed quality test and where you just drill that tube just like you drill into the soil. You drill the tube into a bale. Send a bunch of samples out and get it back from the lab and then talk to a feed guy. Talk to an actual cattle feed guy and see what his see what he sees or maybe your lab if you tell them it's going for cattle feed or sheep, goat, whatever. Let them know what it's going for and and maybe they can on their recommendations just like soil might have a high low medium very high very low on there. But we want to watch that sulfur because that can be a real serious bug for irritant to them cows. So we don't want to go into it just blind to be like well I'm going to seed this cover crop species because Albert Lee Seed House had a sale or Brandon Besser had a good buy on a bunch of seed and and I bought all this seed from him but I'm in Missouri where I don't have much for winter kill or or the it ends up being an uncontrollable weed in your area or turns out to be a noxious plant for cattle when your whole intent intent was for cattle. So just quickly guys just do some research in the spring this is just another great example of why we need to just do a little bit of research on these cover crops before we just start diving into it. It's another great example of why we do small acre test plots of it and and whatnot but I will leave I'm just going to leave at that I think we can set a record for today that I talked for less than three minutes and uh but yeah guys thanks for watching like always hit the subscribe button like always let's have a good conversation below I enjoy your guys's advice and comments and so all right guys I'm gonna leave it there I'm gonna get back to cutting some hay you