Unknown Title
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TuOx0u5Q2GA
Unknown Category
 Let's go. Let's go. We can walk over here after we leave. Mommy wants water. Mommy, look. Look what I'm looking, water. So we just arrived to the farm and I left my tripod so I get to hold the phone the whole time. Brooklyn! Where are you going? Did I have a campus key? That's my mouth. That's my mouth. Oh. I got it real. I got it real. I got it real. I got it real. Oh. And the way I got it real. I got it real. Yeah, it's so cool. I got it real. Thank you. Thank you. To the slot right across on the smashed pumpkin. So, we need to walk further into here. That does not really look like it. So, this is basically like a pumpkin graveyard. It's like a poopy yard. Well, it's not poop. It's been raining. It's muddy. I can't pick it up. That one is huge, girl. I'm strong. Stop before you drop that pumpkin. You break it, you buy it, Brooklyn. There's a little baby one over there, but it's probably rotten. You see any good ones yet? Let's see. There's a ton up in here. So, we're probably going to have to walk up in here. Oh, they're all the way in the back. Maybe we should have walked back there, too. Yeah, because he's going to leave when they come back. Look at this big old pumpkin. Okay. So, let's go, go, go, go on an adventure. Well, who's going to carry these pumpkins back? If that was not rotten, that could be a little bit rotten. Ew. Alright, so we're looking for a pumpkin. The ones we've seen so far have kind of been smashed or like a bit rotten. So, we are trying to walk a bit further. And hopefully, we can find a big pumpkin that's not like freaking huge. So, yeah, hopefully, we can get a good pumpkin before the hay rot comes back to pick us up. I don't know what you call these. The pumpkins with like the little crustaceans on there. But there's like a ton. And then some that's not quite ripe. A bunch of carvallers. The last time I carved one, they died before it was even home. Oh, yeah. That one probably will die. You see any you like, baby? Here you got a tiny one. Come here. This little super tiny one. That can be at least pumpkin. How big of a pumpkin you're getting? Girl. Oh, it's rotten. I feel like I'm getting bit by something. I feel like a big enough pumpkin. Oh, look at this one. That one's like all green. Some of these are nice over here. Nice and orange. That's a good one over there. Brooklyn, why are you going to those corn stalks? Oh, I told her to grab that pumpkin. Oh. I do. Don't you go over there. Look at this one. Well, you can roll them back. Oh, I found a pumpkin. That white one is cute, too. I'm going to go over here. Oh, look at all the corn. Reminds me of Children of the Corn. Oh, what's that one movie on Netflix right now? Or was it on Hulu where, like, the people got stuck in the corn? Like, the girl and her brother and somebody else. It was, like, in a weird time, warped in the corn. I watch way too many horror movies. Oh, I may have found you one, Brooklyn. I don't know. Be careful. Oh. I think this is a good one. Do you want a green one? Oh, let me come see. It's over there. No, I was looking at this orange one because this one is a nice orange one. Yeah. Come this way. Where are you going, child? The green one is over here. Straight ahead. This? Yeah, the green one that's right there. Is it Rotten? That looks like an orange one. Let me see it. Hey, lady. I found the bigger one that you might like. You don't like this one, Welton? Is it Smash? This one. That one's nice. It's big. Yeah, it is. It's a tent. Yeah, let's hurry up. Oh, be careful. What's this one? That one's huge. I don't know about that one. This one? Yeah. That one looks okay. There's a lot of dirt. Yeah. There's a lot of dirt on it, but I mean. Clean it. Yeah. You want to get that one? Let's look right here right quick because I think they are about to load up the hayride. I don't think they'll leave us out here. Don't clean that. Because we're going to have to walk. Who is that? Oh, I'm not walking. They're going to come back and get us. I'm not walking all the way back to the main farm. What time is it? Um, 4.53. We need to hurry up because the place is all over. What about? That one. This one? That's a huge pumpkin. I feel like we barely made it. Back to the last ride. We had people. What about? She made all nice. That's a huge umaffler. That's kind of appinaечant. This one. This one. Have fun. A fast one. It's fun. The first one. T collectunky food a lowtailnya wallet. And soon. Why? The third one. Take what it is. We need a solo emissions. You need its hard to get the same. We need to make this waste. You need theENTS to protect the being. I. Team. You need to put that money on. Our federal stump is on. We'll be right back. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Yes. These are some nice pumpkins. We just got cookies. Alright, so we're back home from the farm and pumpkin patch, which the pumpkin patch was at the farm and Miss Brookiebrook wanted to go ahead and carve the pumpkin. Show them your kit that came from Dollar Tree. We went to Dollar Tree the other day and got like the little pumpkin kit, but that's the only thing that came with this. So I will help her. I don't even know if she knows what design she's going to carve her pumpkin, but she's going to go ahead and carve it. But the sad thing is that the farm actually closes at five instead of six. It closed. It closed. Yeah. And we got there at like four or something. So we were very late there and it was a nice hayride and we had a lot to go through to pick a pumpkin and get on the ride. The man had to help us with the pumpkins because we had a lot of pumpkins. But we finally picked that pumpkin and went back and then drove back home and got that pumpkin. Which side of the knife should I use? Okay, I'm going to go ahead and press record because it's not recorded. I'm going to cry. I'm just playing it. It is recording. Oh my God. Gotcha. Okay. Okay, so maybe you should just stand in your stool to cut the top of that. Oh, you got it. You can see on top. Like right here. I think it's good to cut. I can't cut. Okay, let me start it off for you. So, cuz we're just going to cut the top right? Yeah. Oh, it did just kind of like go in there. Well guys, I agree. Okay. You got a count. Let me scoot the chair. Wait, hold on. You get down and get right in the middle. Yeah. Yeah. I'm not the fuck? I'm not the fuck? I'm not the fuck? You got a count. I'm not the fuck. You got a count. Let me scoot the chair. Wait, hold on. You get down and get right in the middle. Yeah. I'm not the fuck. That's what I'm talking about. about to fall you get down so you can get right in the middle okay how'd you do that i'm stuck in the same place i'm getting someone going out the back of our pumpkin we thought it was dirt but that one kind of looks a little moldy i hope it's not well we're not gonna actually eat the pumpkin anyway so i guess it doesn't matter but i don't want it to start like stinking or anything you got it baby yeah it's hurting my hand this part is better than my hand let me know if you need me to help it's kind of cutting out good you need to take a break i gotta hold on you got like the paper on one that was that part's already cut yeah make sure and get it all like opened well you have a whole other side to do so so do you know like what design you're going to carve like an angry pumpkin a angry why a pumpkin have to be angry i had some little like the little tea light candles to stick in there but i don't know where they are i thought i had some like the wrong side no wonder why do you want me to hold the pumpkin it be careful yeah hold the pump ready be careful now okay okay yeah it's not a knife however i need you to be careful please why did you start off with like drooping i think i'm just going to start off right here i mean no you can just do it no this way well yeah so it can be wider because you see how this runs into that part that's why so you can doesn't have to be a perfect circle i know because it's really hot i'm almost there be careful good thing the edge of that isn't like sticky but look it's literally like right there like two of my index fingers so move your thumb yeah okay i was about to say did you just slap on me piece of pumpkin i was about to say did you just slap on me does it have a bit of guts in here it doesn't have a lot of guts you want me to show it don't yeah it does not have a whole lot of guts put that bond in there okay okay so she's going to figure out how she wants to carve it in the meantime i'm going to um scoop i'm afraid it's gonna be like disgusting or something probably so i'm so lazy i need to finish my water they didn't because i'm gonna try it sooner or later look at my hand we can make something you have like a whole lot of room and you're just like throwing it all right here in this corner there's like a whole other oh be careful so i'm all about to try the pumpkin guts so i'm gonna get like a good piece okay i'm not gonna like bite it away ew not delicious at all not delicious nor nutritious stop flinging those seeds girl maybe nutritious but not delicious do you want me to get some of that out for you do you want me to get some out for you i don't want to get it all out because it's almost done let me see this full corner left in here because i got it all cornered to this side i don't want your shirt to rub up against that part yep time to try some more because it's delicious and nutritious you know some people say the pumpkin seeds like dry them out and like chew on them like sunflower seeds really yeah but they kind of like dry them out put them in the oven and like salt them they don't just you you girl disgusting this booklet corner has so fast owner has so much to get. Okay, so she has abandoned her little shop, but this is everything that was inside the pumpkin and she pretty much gutted it out. So she pretty much gutted out her pumpkin. This is everything I did. And this is everything. Alright, so we're trying to make this. So this is what we have so far. I'm just trying to draw out the eyes. This is basically what we're trying to make. Yeah, we'll see how it turns out. So this is what we're trying to make. So this is what we're trying to make. So this is what we're trying to make. So this is what we're trying to make. So this is what we're trying to make. We're trying to make. So this is what we're trying to make. If you have a question from us. To be continued... I promise I won't be a hero anymore. But I'm still the leader of the heroics. I promise you're out of there. Take a look here. It's by example. I'm sorry. Wait. I don't know. Look for this. Good. You got it, Emma? Mm-hmm. These muscles. Look at that. Flexing. Flexing. oh i'm not even going shaking the table it's these muscles okay so this is our little evil pumpkin she wants to make an evil pumpkin g