Drip irrigation system in spinach farming
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U045D7ILFww
People & Blogs
 Hello, this is Jendrob farm where we do things related to farming and in our continuing series of farming today I just want to show you how we do farming of spinach under drip irrigation. So as you can see our spinach are doing well, they are healthy and we have taken precaution as far as management of this spinach are concerned. So drip irrigation just work something marvelous as far as farming is concerned. What you just need to do is to take the necessary precaution and then you can be able to harvest much as far as spinach production is concerned. So our cropping here we've just done, this one is purely, purely, purely organic farming where we are using rabbit manure that is slurry from biogas and the slurry basically is the digested kind of rabbit manure that is from biogas and then we just pour it here. So maybe I'll be showing you in one of our videos how it's done. We shall have biogas production in our farm. So in one of the videos I'll be able to show you how it's done. So basically you just need to keep your spinach healthy in a way that we're just using that slurry and then we have a formulated foliar that is from rabbit urine. It's formulated and we usually sell it in our farm. So that one is a very, very working well organic foliar fertilizer that we have, that we are manufacturing here in our farm. So maybe I'll be also be showing you that foliar fertilizer. So it's organic, we just usually spray to our farms. So basically everything here is under drip irrigation as you can see. So we are utilizing it so much as in it saves a lot of time and it's efficient in a way that all the water that you use, it's very, very well utilized. So as you can see our spinach are doing well. So as you can see them and we already started to harvest them. We are selling them at the market price that is from wholesalers and also from retailers that is from households that consume. So spinach production is very, very important factor in farming. So spinach as you can see it has a lot of vitamins and most of the people, most of the household prefer to use spinach to mix it with other vegetables like manago, like kunde, like kel, that is kumawiki. So we can see it with all other traditional vegetables. You can be able to mix them. It softens also those traditional vegetables. So we encourage you to visit our farm if you want more of spinach and we'll be able to supply it to you. So thank you for listening to me. Thank you for your time and hope you subscribe to our channel if you haven't subscribed to it. Also you like our videos for us to make these videos to reach so many people. So like our videos and share our videos as much as you can. Also you can always comment and we'll be able to engage you. So thank you. Thank you and God bless you.