Research About New England's Organic Wheat Crop
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uBX2Oy38S24
Education
 Ellen Mallory, University of Maine Well, hi. My name is Ellen Mallory and I'm an agronomist with Cooperative Extension at the University of Maine. And I'm going to be talking to you a bit about a project that I'm leading in Maine and Vermont to help farmers produce high-quality organic bread wheat for our region. In the last few years, there's been a surge of interest in locally grown food, and that includes bread, a staple of our diet. Many consumers want to be able to buy bread that's made from flour that's milled locally, from wheat that's grown locally. But unfortunately, millers and bakers in our region haven't been able to find enough locally grown wheat. The increasing demand for bread wheat in our region represents a real economic opportunity for farmers. Unfortunately, the farmers who have started to grow bread wheat have found there's very little information that currently exists on how to grow bread wheat in our region and under organic conditions. And now the current demand is for organic. In response to this lack of information about how to grow bread wheat and meet those quality standards, a group of researchers in the region partnered with farmers, millers, and bakers to develop a project that is addressing key production and quality issues for bread wheat. One of our major research areas is variety evaluation. We're looking at 25 to 30 varieties of each spring and winter wheat. We'll be looking at how well varieties grow, do they survive the winter, do they have early season vigor, and when they flower and for how long. But ultimately, we'll also be evaluating how the varieties bake and taste, because ultimately consumers will decide if a variety is suitable for bread wheat. One of the unique aspects of this project is that we're involving key players all along the bread wheat food chain. That means farmers, millers, and bakers, as well as researchers. Working together, we will contribute to the economic opportunities for Maine and Vermont farmers, as well as respond to the increasing demand for local foods. Thank you.