Welcome to The Farmers Accountant
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UjoClde3Dq8
People & Blogs
 Hi my name is Stephen Malcolm, founder of the Farmers Accountant. I'm glad you found your way through here to our website. Do you know that very few accountants in the country are focused just on the needs of farmers and graziers, yet the agricultural industry is a very different industry to all others and the needs of farmers and graziers is also different. Income is seasonal, expenses are seasonal, prices can vary greatly too from year to year, the weather can vary greatly from year to year and this makes reporting difficult. So all this is just to say that the agricultural business is a different business to others and to be a good agricultural accountant this needs to be reported in a meaningful way for you the farmer. So we've called ourselves the Farmers Accountant and we hope that we can provide to you a service that both helps you understand your business and meets your needs. If you need end of year financial work done and taxation work done we do plenty of those. If you're wanting to navigate through the pitfalls of buying and selling land and capital gains tax we can advise you on that. If you're looking to do budgeting for the purposes of refinancing or for the household allowance or for any other business plan purposes that you that you have we're set up to do all of those. If you want to know the real profit you're making from your individual enterprises on a year-by-year basis and a production year basis we we do those. I've been in this game for about 30 years now we work with large clients and small clients and we've been in industry long enough to have dealt with most issues that come up with farmers and graziers and and I'm sure some of those issues you're going through right now. So look if all this feels right to you complete the details below and we'd love to have a chat with you and perhaps we can help you on your way with achieving your goals for the future. Hope to talk with you soon. Thank you.