36 Implements for Your Equipment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ukoxwAUOZNw
Autos & Vehicles
 Neil from Messick's here to show you a whole bunch of attachments that could go onto your tractor. Think what a tractor is at the end of the day, right? It's a tool carrier. In and of itself, a tractor doesn't do a whole lot but drive around. But between the three-point hitch and the skid-steer coupler, there's a lot of different implements that can go onto that tractor to do a very wide range of chores. So today, we're going to go around machine gun style. We're going to go around and very quickly highlight what is sitting out here on the lot today. Not an exhaustive list but maybe a list that piques your interest a little bit. Maybe you'll see something that's going to be a perfect fit to get a chore done on your property. We're going to start out with a front loader. Front loader is an implement that's on probably 90% of the tractors that we sell. It's absolutely instrumental in being able to move material around. But when equipped with a skid-steer coupler is instrumental in being a tool carrier for a number of other attachments that you're going to find here out on the front of the tractor. Backhoes are going to give you a way to do trenching for foundations and drainage ditches, maybe shaping swales and grading dirt. But when equipped with a thumb can also give you the ability to move rocks, grasp logs and do a variety of work on the back of your tractor. This four in one combination bucket is going to give you one implement on the front of your tractor that can do a lot of different things. Using a bucket like this you can scoop like a traditional bucket. You can grade by back dragging. You can spread things out the opening or you can use the gap in order to pinch and carry things like a grapple all with one attachment that can be carried around at most times on the front of your tractor. This is grapple land. If you live in a wooded property you're going to thank yourself for buying a grapple. They can be really handy for moving trees and brush around residential properties. The more durable ones like these Vernigs over here are also used in construction applications for cleaning up job site debris. These skeleton buckets are handy for jobs where you want loose debris to be able to fall through the bucket and not get carried along. Really handy for cleaning up things like rocks or trash that you might find around your property. Boom mowers are available for mid-sized tractors on up and they're going to give you a way to reach a mowing head over guard rails or pond banks to have a way in order to keep grass trimmed and areas maintained and tricky to reach places. This big rotary cutter is the most heavy duty of mowing implements meant for going and mowing high grass but also being durable enough to cut through thick woody debris and small trees that you may manage to drive over. Finish mowers are going to be available for your tractor in both the mid-mount under the tractor or the three-point hitch variety behind the machine. That finished mower is going to allow you to maintain those manicured lawns around your houses, barns, and properties. These flail mowers have become a really popular attachment down here at Messick's. We sell a lot of these to people who are looking to maintain fields and pastures and do that long grass-type mowing. A really reasonable horsepower requirement are going to give you a nicer finish out the back of your tractor than a rotary cutter will. These sickle bar mowers are a little bit older technology but still find their place behind some modern tractors today. They're preferred for mowing places where you need to have the reach of this bar out beyond your tractor or something that's going to give you a really clean cut, especially if you're trying to cut at long lengths. One of the newer concepts in mowing is an offset mower that attaches onto the loader of your tractor. These are a little on the dangerous side, but they do give you a way to be able to reach a mower deck out into those tricky-to-reach areas, be it reaching down over a pond bank or maintaining, say, a higher wall of brush along the sides of your trails or properties. Disc and forestry mulchers are the most aggressive implements that we sell when it comes to land clearing. If you need to make quick work of acres of trees and brush, these are the fastest ways to get it done. It does take a little bit more machine, generally compact tract loaders, to really put these things to work. Your tractor is the perfect power plant for powering a wood chipper from about 4 to 8 inches or so, depending on the capacity of your tractor. It could be a great way to use that diesel power in order to clean up the yard debris that you have lying around. You can reduce the maintenance costs of your equipment and eliminate a gas engine from a self-contained log splitter by running run off of your tractor. These are going to be available on either skid steer or three-point hitch mount, simply taking that hydraulic flow from your machine and operating the cylinder to split your firewood. At the end of many of these jobs, you've got stumps left over, and your tractor can help grind them down as well with a stump grinder on your three-point hitch. This uniquely shaped bucket is called a stump bucket. Now, if you think of your loader bucket as a shovel, that five, six, seven-foot cutting edge is hard to push down into the ground. But by having this small point on the front of your bucket, you're able to penetrate the ground really easily. We like seeing people to use these for, say, getting under stumps and popping them up out of the ground, breaking their roots, or carrying around tree balls and stuff on a landscape job. This disc is a soil preparation tool. Usually, these are pooled across a field after crops have been done growing and you're preparing for the next year's planting. But we would also see these used in preparation for putting in food plots. Rototillers are available for prepping your spring gardens and are going to fit behind just about any tractor that we sell, sized from about four foot on up. The preparator is my personal choice when it comes to lawn preparation equipment. This spinning drum on the front is going to break up clods of dirt, loosen about that top two inches of soil, and kick any rocks and debris back into a bucket to be quickly removed. A box blade is a really versatile grading implement that uses these scarifiers to rip hard pack and then collects the remaining soils in the box as you drive along. You can then feather your three-point hitch up in order to spread that material out, allowing you to regrade areas as you go. A second variant of this is called a grading scraper that's not closed across the back. That's really the best suited to road maintenance. Rear blades are an inexpensive and popular implement found behind a lot of tractors, most commonly used for clearing snow and grating dirt. A landscape rake functions a lot like a blade, but its teeth give it a lot different behavior when you actually get out and start using it. It's going to do a little bit better job of grabbing loose materials, allowing you to rake up things like leaves and pine straw, but also can be used for some light grating by allowing some of that dirt material to slip out between the tines and pull along and top dress some of the areas that you might be trying to smooth out. Harley rakes are a little bit more aggressive lawn prep attachment that are going to prepare an area for seating. Being a little bit more aggressive can also do some reshaping and smoothing at the same time. After you've driven all of this heavy equipment all over your lawn, your grass might be a little bit compacted. We've got an attachment for that too. Head on out with an aerator and you'll be able to get that grass growing like new again. Here in the Northeast, we take our snow removal seriously and have a long list of snow weapons, but one of the best among them is going to be the snowblower, which is one of the most efficient ways to clear high volumes of snow from your property. You would see push boxes like this used in big commercial parking lots in order to, say, mound up the snow with the mall, but you might not suspect that they're also available in small sizes for use around residential properties. If you have a driveway that has many parking spaces or open areas in it, you're going to find push boxes like this being a very good way in order to clean your snow out of those areas. Many of these are also available with rubber and plastic cutting edges on the bottom to keep from scraping up your driveway in the way that your loader bucket will. We're also going to do snow using plows, but these plows are usually heavy-duty enough to move a little bit of dirt at the same time if you need to do some contouring and shaping on a job site or property. This cone spreader is an inexpensive implement used for broadcasting things on the ground. Most commonly used for salt, we do also see people go out and spread things like grass seed and other loose materials onto the ground. These rubber tire scrapers are most commonly found in dairy barns for clearing manure out from an aisle of cows, but they have some other interesting applications as well. If you need to, say, push snow off of areas where you're concerned about marring up asphalt or concrete, they give you a way to be able to move that kind of loose material without harsh metal cutting edges. This is a side shooter bucket to go onto your loader. It's going to allow you to take that loader bucket, scoop up light materials, and then run a belt in the bottom of this to carry that material and shoot it out the side. We see a lot of these used for feeding cows in dairy barns or distributing mulch by landscapers. I use pallet forks on the front of my tractor more than I do my dirt bucket. You wouldn't believe the amount of stuff that you will find that simply needs to be lifted and carried, right? Be it moving an actual pallet, but also doing things like lifting logs or manipulating your other implements. It's a really handy thing to have available. I save a lot of money at my property by doing my own application of herbicides, pesticides, and fertilizers using a sprayer behind my tractor. These large booms allow you to cover a lot of ground fast. You're going to be able to find tank capacities from about 25 gallons on up, allowing you to really efficiently take care of those things on your own and save some bucks. I think front brooms are a more versatile attachment than most people would give them credit for. They can be used for cleaning up debris and sticks and rocks and stuff that are on your driveways, streets, or sidewalks, but they can also be used for removing light snow and with a set of wheels in the back, actually even dethatch a lawn. This hammer is going to use this big heavy point right here to break concrete into itty bitty little pieces. Post augers are going to go on the front or the back of your tractor and have many different uses. We generally think of them as a quick way to set fence posts or put deck posts down into the ground, but with the right auger on the end can also be used for doing plantings of trees and other applications. When it comes to trenching long distances for water and electric lines, a trencher is going to be the fastest way to get it done. These can go either onto a three-point hitch or onto a front loader. They're going to make quick work of that job, disturbing as little soil as possible. There is almost unending amounts of options out there for attachments to go onto your machine. This is only a small subset of it, believe it or not. The things that we have sitting out here today that are for sale, but our catalog of attachments to go into your machine to do very specific chores is enormous. There's a lot of things available for these machines to be the most efficient as possible when there is work to be done. We pride ourselves in having the best solutions out there to help you do that. If you're shopping for a piece of equipment and we can help, or if you have parts of service needs for a machine you've already got, give us a call at Messick's. We're available at 800-222-3373 or online at messicks.com. Rototillers are available in all sizes, but what sizes are they? When it kept with a cramp, swales and... Alerts are available by one card at me at esejd字 feel free from another day, when ... debrisros are available for twois this year! Red Dead Dead Dead Dead tempers are available to release... ...