Qigong for you life-force cultivation. Qi as bio-electromagnetism. Taoist Master Mantak Chia
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=umpIg30hFn0
Entertainment
 Qigong means the work of breath and another meaning that means the breath of essence. When we're breathing, we only know that we're breathing oxygen in, but in the Tao, in the practice, like we call Qigong practice, we have to bring in another essence of life that are in the space. Now, the oxygen is only one thing, but the breath of life is another thing. There are electromagnetic power in the space and inside us also have electromagnetic power, but through the breathing, this electromagnetic power cannot come into us because electromagnetic power is very scattered around. The Qigong you practice inhale, exhale, you're gathering, you're condensing it, and you transform it and you condense them into energy. You gather the condensed Qi into the navel, so when the Qi go in, we can guide the Qi and store them below the navel. You bond with it, I am only tell you and teach you how to do it. You receive the light and you have the light move in orbit and I'll move to the five major organs and when you finish, you bring this energy stored below and you gather all the energy outside, inside and store them. Now, it becomes a storage energy for your life. Humans actually have electricity. We are electrical men. We have electricity inside our body. We call Qi, electromagnetic power. Outside here have electromagnetic power, inside us have electromagnetic power. The differences of outside electromagnetic power is the inside electromagnetic power have bio. Bio means life. Electromagnetic power, they have life. But when we learn how to gathering this electromagnetic power, condensing it, now you bring them into the navel. You're increasing your electromagnetic power. Electromagnetic power, we call life force. Energy inside you, you're increasing more life force, more energy. When you have more life force, more energy, you don't get sick. And the bacteria cannot get in you because you have much stronger defense. Electromagnetic power is our defense. And it's energy energy of the white blood cell. White blood cell is our soldier. If we don't give them energy, our soldier cannot fight the war.