Hay shortage leaves many feed stores with little to no supply
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Umzxkj4ZOb4
News & Politics
 A hay shortage has left feed stores across northern California with low inventory. Action News Now reporter Ryan Caney spoke with feed stores and customers to see how it's impacting them. Where I'm standing, there's normally giant stacks of hay filling this entire barn. But what you see behind me is all the supply Haas Ranch and Farm Supply has right now. I spoke with several different feed stores around the area, and Haas was one of the only stores that said they had enough hay for their customers. Greg Haas is a co-owner at Haas Ranch. He told me while hay shortages typically happen around this time of year, this is the worst one he's seen in his lifetime. I think a lot of it was production was down up north. The rainfall was real lacking in the spring and the summer. And then the prices are up. So the supply is down, the prices are not quite double, but approaching double what they were a year ago. Haas told me he prides himself on offering good deals. But with the rising operation costs, he may not be able to do that anymore. That's what I feel so bad. You know, a bale of hay we used to sell for $10 and now $17 now. You know, maybe a little bit of inflation. I know fuel's gone up and our input costs have gone up. Fertilizer's almost doubled from last year. So, you know, this next year I don't see a lot different because the input costs are up 30 to 40 percent. One customer I talked to told me he went to three different feed stores before finding one with enough hay. He told me people should be able to get what they need, even if it takes some extra searching. You just kind of got to go and do what you got to do. Try to find it. Whether you got to drive for it or not, but, I mean, you'll find it, potentially. Haas told me people should be prepared to get through this current shortage until they can stock up in May and June when more hay has grown. In Anderson, Ryan Caney, Action News Now. Coverage you can count on. Now, one customer told Action News Now they had to travel over an hour from Orland to Anderson to get the hay that they needed.