Types of Crops
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Uo4SDQ46S5Q
Film & Animation
 Hi, I'm Alyssa Beauchamp and I am a crop consultant with Nutrient Ag Solutions. My job is to help farmers make decisions about their crops and manage their crops, as well as testing their soil for different nutrients, which helps the plants grow. And we spread fertilizer as well as spraying the weeds in their fields. We are kind of like doctors for plants and the way that we diagnose their diseases, deficiencies, insect damage and things like that, just like a doctor would do for you if you went to see your doctor. So we have a lot of crops to show you today to help you guys learn how we do this. In this bag over here we have alfalfa. So this is used to help feed animals. It supplements their usual feed. It goes to horses, cattle, sheep, pretty much every animal eats alfalfa. And then over here we have a wheat plant. And then I also have some wheat seed. So both of these go into making cereal, bread and things like that. And then I have some corn seed, which is used for corn syrup, cereal, animal feed, a lot of different things. This isn't like the sweet corn that you guys eat. Now the sweet corn is what they grow for us and it looks a little bit different. And then this is corn silage, which is also for dairy cattle towards feed. Another different variety of corn we have. And then I have this soybean seed. This goes towards soybean oil, plastics, different things like that. We also have some more silage. And then these are a couple samples of our fertilizer. This is what we would spread on the fields when it comes time to fertilize for the different farmers. As you can see, these crops do a variety of different things. This presentation has been brought to you by the farmers of Lenawee County and Nutrient Ag Solutions. This Color Initiative is used as a thing that takes a lot of water to socializing. So we're going to takeifie County and then어서 meng enmies down in the office, so they are going to pet the most before being women. To make sure they're localized and treated how to boil those as well. So we royally are going to pass over to our farms and Teraz One Cookie is a comes of different noise Peroacina's base to refinish. Not a count, so we've gone for more energy bases so that'll find one time of tomorrow or row. It's nice, ersten Souls is already phased and the main distribution.