WEBINAR - Huy Tran -RAS Components and Design Principles  - (Recirculating Aquaculture Systems)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UpskMNcVN4g
People & Blogs
 Tell me when. All right. Welcome, everyone, and thank you for joining us today in this webinar sponsored by the United States Aquaculture Society, the National Aquaculture Association, and the Alabama Cooperative Extension System. We're happy to have Hui Tran with us today, who's going to talk to us a little bit about the basics of recirculating aquaculture systems. Hui's a senior biologist with a company called Aquatic Equipment and Design, and he's got over 30 years of experience in the aquaculture industry. So we're happy to have him. He's been a farm manager and a system designer and worked with about 29 different species, designing systems for both commercial producers as well as educators. And he is going to talk to us about the basics of recirculating system design, and he has lots of experience because he worked for Aquatic Ecosystems and the catalog company for over 17 years. So we're happy to have him. Just a couple of housekeeping items. If you will, please make sure your microphones are muted. And remember that we will post these recordings after today on the Aquaculture Education and More YouTube channel, as well as the United States Aquaculture Association YouTube channel, or Aquaculture Society channel. And then there'll probably be a link from the National Aquaculture Association channel as well. So with that, I will turn it over to Hui, and we will go ahead and get started. And if you have questions, feel free to type them in the chat box, and we will try and answer them. I'll try and record them, and we'll try and get to some of those at the end. All right. Hui, take it away. All right. Hello, everyone. Thank you for having me, and we'll get started here. I'm just going to cover the basic components and basic principles in design. There's many ways to do it, but I'll cover the majority or the most common ways that's done. RAS, a recirculating aquaculture technology, the reason why we do it, it increases control, minimize water usage. We can go with a much higher density. Biosecurity is a very important aspect of it. We can have year-round growing, and there's not a limit in the species that we can do. We just have to understand their biology first and how to reproduce them. The problem is, the reason why I have that asterisk on there is just because we can do the species does not necessarily make it a good candidate. Just because of the cost of doing it or the market. We probably wouldn't want to grow salmon here in Florida, which we do have a farm that's doing that. Does it make economic and financial sense, first of all? And then, RAS is really important because it gives us a much more controlled environment in which to culture our species. Again, minimize water usage, conserves heat if we have to heat or cool the system. It really decreases water demand because I can culture at a much higher, much greater density, and I can filter and treat that water. Definitely increase biosecurity for escapes and introduction of other species. I can deal with controlled environment, and it gives me a lot of control, and it can control the animal growth, where I can dictate the volume in which I do based on the market needs. One of the things that we should probably look at more in RAS is the sustainability of RAS. Maybe lower head application, lower energy system, zero or near zero discharge, and lower trophic species. We tend to do a lot higher trophic species, kind of like tuna or salmonids. We don't tend to do like tilapia or other species like that. In other parts of the world where milkfish, tilapia, lower trophic species tend to do quite well in their markets. We can also add in aquaponics or do a biofloc system or green water system. It can be incorporated or part of RAS. The difference between some of the species that we talk about, every time we talk about RAS, all it is is just a recirculating aquaculture system. So most time people think about it as just commercial size, but hobby, education system, basic entry level, small scale system, and vertically integrated system. All of these are a recirculating system. These are some of the basic components that we'll be talking about. The fish culture tank, the aeration or oxygen, oxygenation input, disinfection, waste, solid removal, biological filtration, and removal of CO2 as our density goes up. And then some of the other components that we'll barely touch on is the, what we do with that waste process. Mineralize it, go into other systems like aquaponics or a biofloc type system. Some minor stuff that we do tend to overlook sometimes is monitor control. And then we also have to deal with biosecurity. Production systems really should be supported by credible design. I've seen so many systems that is trying to reinvent the wheel or, or, you know, haven't done the research and they're making the same mistakes that I see year after year after year. Also when designing our RAS system or before purchasing an existing system, you should undertake a really comprehensive financial analysis to identify acceptable level of investment. So you're doing basically a, a, a kind of a walkthrough due diligence on the system. And which is very commonly overlooked. I'm not sure why that is. It's just like any other investment, any other business, you kind of have to do that due diligence. Again, don't recreate the wheel work on some existing technology. You know, learn on the mistakes of others that will help so much financially and not repeat some of the, the more common mistakes. And then also how and when to best integrate certain components. Detail is definitely in the proper design. I could probably do a book or a series of presentation just on incorrect designs. Be aware of awkward shikesters or paper engineer who sells you a design or pre-done system. That's really important. I see a lot of systems that are not suitable for certain species. One of the more common ones I've seen just recently is a Salmonid system sold for someone that is doing a marine warm water species. And the system failed after about a year and a half. Some really, really terrible design. If you look at this pipe, it's not supported except for these pieces of plastic that's under this cradle. So these, these small mistakes, they add up significantly. That's a 36 inch diameter pipe. That's a lot of weight on that little point loading. Here's another system. These are overflow or drains flowing. There's actually 14 of these things. I've only caught like 12 in the photo, but all going into a common drum filter. Originally, they didn't even have any type of label, so they didn't even know which drain was which. We finally had them label it, but it's still a nightmare to deal with. So just proper design will save you all kinds of headache and mortality. Basic components we'll touch on is culture tank, water movement, pumping, filtration, both mechanical and biological. Gas control, whether we are oxygenating, aerating, or degassing in the system. Disinfection, UV, ozone, and then basic monitor and controls. The crucial factors in a tank design is where the drain is located. The return manifold design, width to height ratio, optimal drain design is the same. The final drain design is so far is basically the Cornell dual drain system. The drain from the side receives the majority of the flow, and the bottom drain takes just a heavy effluent. And that way you can kind of divide up the flow and go with a smaller mechanical filtration, which is a pretty major cost. Tank design material. Material for tanks should be constructed in something that's very durable, smooth, inert, and non-toxic, of course. Tank construction that we see out there most common are fiberglass, HDPE, which is the high density polyethylene. Concrete that has a treated or coating on it. Steel with epoxy or with a glass coating, which is very common also. And then a corrugated steel with a liner. A corrugated steel is usually grain silos, pieces, and then it has a liner to protect it and to maintain water volume. Some basic design for return manifold. And this design is very simple. It gives a good water distribution. In the old days we just had a pipe come into a tank, and that was it. But as the tank size grew, and as the dimensions and volume and density grew, we had to make better designs in order to get the correct flow and help flush that waste out of that system much faster and get it into filtration. Water movement. So pumps are very common device sizing is very dependent on system volume and your turnover rate. Standard turnover rate is anywhere from 30 every 30 to 60 minutes. Most of the time we deal with is mostly in the 60 minute range. One turnover every 60 minute or every hour. Types of pump can include centrifugal pump, which are kind of the more common swing pull pump like the very bottom here. The vertical turbine, which are very large pumps, the bright red one in the upper right hand corner. Basic submersible pump, upper left hand corner. Be careful with the submersible pump. You got to understand that there's electricity in the water and also oils that are usually used to cool and lubricate the pump. So make sure you get this suitable pumps. The magnetic driven pumps tend to be a little bit smaller, maybe not for huge commercial system, but that's, they're pretty nice and they're good for saltwater environment. Instead of have a shaft running through it, it has magnetics to drive the impeller. Filtration, we're going to talk about mechanical filtration first. So mechanical filtration is designed to remove the solids in a recircling aquaculture system. RAS really should incorporate separate treatment stream, double drain for settlements, for settable solids of a hundred, greater than a hundred micron. That will help reduce some of the back washing mechanical filters should treat all water. There shouldn't be any type of side stream to mechanical filtration. All the water that's in your system are recirculating should go through some type of mechanical filtration. And then the maximum size of mechanical filtration should probably be greater than 60 micron for aquaponics, because we don't want to filter out some of the trace nutrients. But for aquaculture, they're tending to go much finer. 40 is pretty standard, but more and more systems are going down to 20 microns. And sizing of these size particle filtration is based on flow rate and loading. So milligrams per liter, so parts per million, basically. Mechanical filters should be able to be cleaned easily, backwash. And it should have a minimum or minimize the amount of water it takes to clean them. In the old days, we use a lot of sand filter that channeled and stuff like that. And take, it took quite a volume just to backwash your mechanical filtration. Basic rule of thumb for every pound or every kilo of feed, you're going to end up with 0.3 pounds or 0.3 kilos of feed. So basically a third of your solid is going to come from your amount of feed that you put in. These are some basic particle size that each type of filter is able to filter out, the ranges of it. And then the drum screen filter is probably the most common and most prolific used for the larger system for sure. And they're nice because they actually remove the waste continuously out of the system. So they're not trapping and holding that waste so it leaches out. It's actually removing it from the system as it collects it. And the variety of screens sizes is excellent. They go as low as 19 micron and as high as 150. And they can be used in a gravity fed or low pressure system. And again, it is self-cleaning, which is very important. This is the basic mechanics of how a drum filter works. There's a technology that's more, you're seeing more and more of it now is the disc filter. It works on the same principle, but is in disc and has a lot more surface area. There is a significant price increase with a disc filter, but it's usually for much larger size system, a large high, greater flow rate and loading. Here are some of the drum filters that are most prevalent in the industry. And I would use a credible or a well-known brand. There are some off brands or some that's been developed in the koi industry. They don't tend to be as robust and they don't tend to have the technical support or the parts as in replacement parts. Bead filters and sand filter. Sand filter is a free-to-bead medium. It can be backwash with either increased flow or some type of blower or drop mechanism. That creates a stirring of the media. There are medium bead filters are usually medium pressure and then sand filter or glass media filter are high pressure. And they're very common, very readily available. Here are some examples of bead filters. If you see the one on the far left, it has a prop wash. It helps with the agitation of the media. So during backwash, that prop kicks on and it helps agitate and breaks up that waste media a little bit better. The second one from the left, it has a drop action where it helps agitate that medium and separates the waste. The one in the middle has a blower. They're jacuzzi type blowers. The same blowers used to make jacuzzi tubs. It agitates that fixed bed in there and it helps facilitate the cleaning of that bed. The last one on the far right is a has a drop filter mechanism and it induces air into a bottom chamber. And then it's one that when that air becomes a certain volume. It trips the trigger and it creates a backwash. Swirl separators and settling filters are very passive, but they tend to only filter out much larger solids. The nice thing is there's very little or no energy is needed to run them. Excellent for removing large solids like I said, but it usually has to be combined with additional filtration, additional mechanical filtration. Here's an example of a swirl separator. And then there's some updated design of swirl separators that are radio flow separator. Example of the drawing on the far left is a radio flow separator. The one in the middle is actually a homemade one at University of Virgin Island. This is back in Jim Ricosi days for his aquaponics system. The one on the far right there is a homemade system that works quite well. It uses a bunch of swimming pool pond skimmer. It was also for an aquaponics facility. The hydrotech belt filters or just belt filters in general are phenomenal. They work really well at separating the solid waste from the water, but they are very, very expensive. And they tend to be used more in dewatering type of application. Very expensive and mechanically a little bit more to work service has to be needed for operation. The next filtration we're talking about is biological filtration or nitrifying filters. The biological filters are a central component of RES aquaponics. Anything to deal with living organism, we need to treat that nitrification cycle. Right? So the dimensions of biological filter can be determined through mass balance calculation. So based on the number or the volume or the weight of feed that you put in, you know how much ammonia you'll be producing. And then we can calculate on what's the actual size of biological filter we need. It's all based on surface area. And so the bacteria needs a certain amount of surface area to grow on. And then, you know, you need a certain amount of bacteria to treat a particular volume of ammonia. This is very important. Most people, when they size biological filters, they're just talking about surface area. You really should be talking about usable surface area. Here's a really simple rule of thumb is the process in nitrification. So ammonia, oxidizing bacteria, nitrosomonas, and then nitrite, oxidizing bacteria, nitrobacter. This is pretty common. So, the biofiltration unit process, really, you should go through a mechanical filtration first before you go through biological filtration. And in order to do that, you do that in order to maintain a better biological filter. You're not clogging it up with waste. So always go through mechanical filtration first. Nitrification, again, it's all about surface area, but usable surface area. So it's just an area or a place where the bacteria can live and be safe from competition. And these are aerobic process, so make sure they're well aerated or there's a certain amount of DO in the system. Basic rule of thumb for every kilogram or pound of feed you put in, 0.03 kilogram or pound, if you go either way, will be ammonia. So, you can see that. Biofiltration, the process, if you're looking at one gram of ammonia produced, you're producing 4.4 grams of nitrates and then 5.9 grams of carbon dioxide. So that's pretty significant. And it also consumes 4.34 grams of O2. So in reality, your biofilter is actually consuming more O2 than your fish at times. And then it's also consuming 7.15 grams of alkalinity. So, a lot of times I see this when customers or clients call me and they say, hey, our system is having a high nitrite problem. And that usually occurs in the beginning when they're starting up their system or someone else has undersized their biofilter. And most of the time when they undersize it, they look at total surface area and not looking at usable surface area. Or the, there's not enough oxygen or DO in their biofilter. Because remember, this is an aerobic process. Biofiltration. These are some low head biofilter design. The moving bed or the mixed bed bioreactor. That's that colonist media, the plastic media that tumbles that you see in many systems. The trickling or the downflow biofilter. RBC is another very common one. Although you don't see it as much anymore due to the weight gain over time. And then the submersed biofilter. This one I have to say with a amount of caution. The submersible biofilter or submersed biofilter has to be done correctly. They tend to be much harder to clean. And then they can run into problem. The moving bed. I guess I have some bias because that seems to be the most robust. And coming from Florida, we go through power outage a lot of time during hurricane season. And they tend to be much more robust than any other system that we've used. These are some mixed bed bioreactor or the moving bed bioreactor. All it is is media agitated. And water, your system water flows through it. So if you look at that system on the bottom left hand corner, it goes through the drum filter first. You can see the drum filter at the top right hand corner of that particular photo. Then it goes into the biofilter. This is the trickle down or down flow biofilter. It has a media in a container and then water is trickled down into it. They can be very efficient and relatively cheap. If you're talking about the microbeads, which is a polystyrene bead that you find in beanbag chair. There is a static charge on those and dealing with those things. They get everywhere. There is a big pressure on those and down flow. When you're pouring into your system. It is relatively cheap. The only drawback is over time, it does get compressed and it gets into your system. And we have found it in fish guts. RBC, or rotating biological contactor, they were popular at one time, not as much anymore. The older design had a shaft running through the center and it had a driving motor. Over time though, it got extremely heavy. The steel shaft of a two inch or three inch diameter would bend over time. The driving motor would burn out. Later on, they developed ones like the ones on the left there. They float and they had a weir in the center of the roller and it uses air. So it looks like a water wheel with air in reverse and it rotated them that way. Over time, what happened though is the bacteria did not build up evenly. So sometimes it wobble or it wouldn't rotate properly and then you had to clip on weights. It was still somewhat of a challenge, but they're pretty robust. I see them more now on smaller systems. The submersible filter, like a gravel bed biofilter or the trickling. They can be relatively cheap. The problem is the maintenance, keeping them clean over time. It's just not easy. And then the way you distribute the water is not always perfect. And it can go anaerobic pretty easily. Pressurized biofilter. We see that on certain design based on their requirements. It does require more energy and there is an additional cost. And also there's some problems with blowouts if you're not designed in some safe safety measures. So the bead filters can be also be used as biological filter, although I tend to recommend using them as either mechanical or biological. I wouldn't use one vessel to do both because as it clogs as a mechanical filter and you backwash it, you're losing some of your biological capacity because you're flushing out some of those bacteria. And over time, you're constantly doing that. So as the mechanical part of it's working well, it can go anaerobic and you know, you could cause problems for your bacteria. So I would use it as one or the other. There is, they do fluidize beads also. Just be aware that over time, the bacteria builds up on these media and it changes the displacement. And so sometimes these media can get out into your system because they they'll float out of their containment area because of displacement. So you make sure you have some contingency to catch that. Food to die sand filter. It's they're super nice when they're working. They do have some measure your sand blasting in your system, basically. So they do erode over time and then they do the sand gets out into your system so they can damage pumps and all kinds of other stuff. So over time, the bacteria film develops around the sand and it changes the displacement and the the the the density. So you make sure you have to have some contingency to catch that that sand. Every sand filter. I've not seen a sand filter has not lost sand. So every single design I've seen has have sand coming out of them. So over time, you definitely need to have contingency for that. Then we're going to move into oxygen provision for pure oxygen or liquid generated liquid or generated oxygen is recommended for higher stocking density for sure anything above. You know, 30 to 40 kilograms per liter. I would I would recommend you can go higher, but that's tend to be the the industry recommendation. I've seen as high as 50 before they go to pure oxygen. So one of the reasons why is is RAS requires that higher stocking density, higher growth rate to be economically viable, right? And O2 addition should be considered going design in the earlier stages. So you can take advantage of capital rate 80 economics of scale. This is where the oxygen process goes into the layout sources. O2 generation liquid ox or cylinder. O2 generation works well. The generators are, you know, they come in all sizes. One of the conditions, though, is they prefer cool, dry environment to generate oxygen. We work in aquaculture. So cool and dry is too luxury. We usually don't have liquid ox can be set up on site and they can come and fill it on a regular basis. Cylinder is more for backup. It's not a viable mainstay for systems. The application for these are downflow contactor, low head alternation devices or LHO, and then counterflow diffusion columns. Here are the different generators. I mean, they come in various, various size. They do need to be serviced. And again, they prefer dry, cool environment. These are the liquid ox. The nice thing about the liquid ox is, let's say you lose power, you will still always have oxygen in your system because the gas are constantly expanding. So if you have a backup plan into your system with a normally open solenoid or normally closed solenoid and then normally open when you lose power or open when you lose power, it's a great backup. And for higher density, absolutely. These are some of the downflow contactor or reverse flow. And these are super, super efficient. Commercial application, this is really kind of the way to go with higher density. So their efficiency is above 90%. LHOs are nice because they tend to use a lot less energy. Let me back up to that. These type of system, they prefer about 7 to 12 PSI. So there's definitely an increase in energy cost to increase the pressure to saturate that water with O2. LHO is basically a gravity feed into the top of the vessel and it trickles through a media or media to break up the water particle and then oxygen is injected towards the bottom or the middle there and it rises through that water that has been broken up. So it's pretty efficient. So it's pretty efficient. Not quite as efficient as the saturator, but they're quite good. And in certain application, they kind of win out just because it's a lower energy cost. And the designs have gotten better. Counterflow. Counterflow. These are some of the older YouTube type design or the DVC, the downward bubble contactor. It works in almost the same basic principle as the saturator, just not under as much pressure. Oxygen contactor. Oxygen contactor. There are some percentage of it. I'm pretty conservative there, saying the efficiency is about 80 to 90. It's tend to be 90 and a little bit higher now with the more efficient designs. Aeration should be used with a system that's less than 35 to 40 kilograms per cubic meter. Diffusers or air stones, mechanical agitator and pack column aerators are some of the choices for that. It is important to understand where your system is located because a lot of these, when using aeration, there is less air at altitude. So make sure you take that into consideration. We had a customer that kept on buying blowers and injecting as much air as he could, and he could never get to saturation. What he didn't realize was he could never get to that saturation level using air because the efficiency of these blowers also depend on percentage of oxygen in air at elevation. So just kind of be aware of that. These are some of the different air diffusers. This was the industry standard for the longest time. A medium glass bonded diffuser. It was originally invented by Bob Heideman, the founder of Aquatic Ecosystem back in 84. Actually, he founded it or made it much earlier, but I didn't really make it to market until about 84. He tested in swimming pools and most of the lakes and ponds around his home. Very low resistance, and it had a decent transfer rate for diffusers compared to others. The mechanical agitators or aerators, they work quite well, although there is electricity in the water, and there is a cost because you're actually moving and pumping water, and then you have an adductor which entrains air. The pack columns are very common technology, but it helps break up that water molecule and saturates with the air much easier. This is the same principle as degassing also. CO2 is definitely going to be a problem in your system when pure oxygen is used because your density is much greater, so you're producing CO2 at a much higher volume for a given system. RAS that uses pure oxygen should definitely incorporate some type of degassing device. And don't forget CO2 is a heavy gas. We had a client that was degassing quite well, but he couldn't understand why his CO2 level was still climbing. The problem was CO2 is a heavy gas. He had his blower, which was aerating the system down low, so the CO2 pool down low, and the blower was actually regassing CO2 instead of air. And these are some common degassing or treatment for CO2. Disease control is very, very important, because you can lose your whole crop due to disease. The best way to deal with disease control is to look for it early and not react. So if you can be proactive, it's much, much easier. And it should be incorporated not just in RAS, but in all fish system. Some of the common devices used is UV or ultraviolet light radiation, and ozone is used in most RAS system. Ozone is phenomenal. It is a very powerful oxidant. It can be used in aquaculture, improved water quality and clarity, and it works very well with many pathogen. And it treats, you can treat your system water, but also you can treat the effluent before you discharge that water. Or you can even treat incoming water if you're worried about pathogens. Ozone causes clumping or microflacculation of fine particles, and it facilitates a much better mechanical filtration removal of those particles. Due to the high oxidation potential, ozone is very, very reliable disinfectant. It's a non-selective though. So whatever is there is going to attack the easiest organism, and then it moves on to the next thing. If there's nothing else in the system, if you're not careful, the ozone can actually react with the organism that you're trying to culture. Ozone is very powerful. It's usually about 400 times stronger than chlorine bleach. So be careful with it, and make sure you have someone that knows what they're doing to size and destruct your ozone. Most times when we deal with ozone, we actually have an ambient air detection. If there's any type of leak. If you smell ozone, it's already too late. It's already doing damage to you. So just be very careful with ozone. It's a phenomenal disinfectant. It's almost too good. So just be aware of that. UV is another common one. At 254 nanometer wavelength, UV light penetrates cell walls of microorganism, and the amount of UV delivered to an organism is called the intensity. UV permanently alters the DNA structure of microorganism, and it renders it unable to reproduce or infect your culture species. UV triggers inactivation within seconds. Now, the thing with UV is it works based on how clear your water is. UV is a light. If your water looks like chocolate milk, don't even bother with UV because it's not going to transmit enough photos or light through that water to do any good. UV is a light. So it's very critical to understand how UV is used and what's needed to have your UV be effective. Monitoring and control. RAS systems should definitely be equipped with some type of monitoring. And at density, a system can crash within minutes. So you definitely want to have some type of monitoring. And any of you guys who've been farm manager, those system crashes are a problem. It always seems to be 2 to 4 a.m. and on the weekends and holidays. So have a monitoring control system, but have a reliable one. Nothing more annoying as a farm manager and you get these alarms all the time and they're false alarms. And then when the real problem comes, you're not ready for it. Some of the parameters that should be monitored is basically DO would say probably number one. But you can also monitor ammonia nitrite pH. These are the continuous monitor that I would say is crucial. DO temp, flow, and water levels. But also make sure your DO probe is located in the right area. I've seen farm where they have their DO probe located in the upper water column and they had a small leakage. And as the water was leaking out of their system, the DO was showing it was still good. But the water level got low enough that most of their fish perished. So just make sure it's located wherever you have your probe and monitor is located in the appropriate area. Other water parameters that you should be looking at, at least periodically, is pH and the rest of these. These can be done with a test kit versus a probe. Some of the probes can't really do ammonia nitrite nitrates all that well in the high levels, but not in, in, in, in alcohol, fine for wastewater, but in aquaculture, it wouldn't work. These are some examples of the simple control and monitor out there. Since the phone's been around forever, it's basically a contact switch. And it's started out as a household, a house alarm, basically. The YSI does, it's a simple off the shelf and it has a lot of capacity. If you want to go overboard, there is controls that can do everything. Flow, how much your pump amp is drawing, water quality. It can actually hook up to Doppler and warn you of impending storms. So these are pretty significant. Just make sure you need it before you put in. The costs on these are quite substantial. Absolutely have to have some type of water quality lab, whether it be a simple test kit or a full blown lab like this. You have to understand your base water quality before you can kind of troubleshoot some of the issues. Here's some simple water quality test kits. The Lamont fish farm or the Lamont aquaponics test kit. It's a color metric using a titration method, really simple. It does have some level of human error or consistency. So you should make sure that you understand and know how to use these first. Or you have one person consistently doing it. Because each person sees a color slightly different. So you don't want too much variation. Another one is the one on the right there, YSI 9500. It's a photo spectrometer, really. So those are super nice. Biosecurity. It's very important. A lot of farms and especially a lot of beginning farms where they're trying to find investors allow tours and stuff like that. I just cringe at that. And I don't know how many tours I've been where I see someone stick their hand in the water. It just drives me nuts. So be very careful of biosecurity. Most of the mishap or disease that come into the farm is due to the lack of biosecurity. Some essential component. Water supply, culture tank, mechanical filtration, all the stuff that we just covered are important. Some supporting components is, you know, structure for housing system, water quality, alarm, feeding systems, storage facilities, staff amenities like bathroom, change. And changing rooms, break room administration and workshop facility. Smaller facility. Every place is a workshop facility, basically. Because you're always repairing something. Additional components are nice to have. It's definitely a quarantine, some type of purging system. If you can produce your own frying, fringling, or someplace to house them so you can get them in at a lower price. Brute stock management, maybe a little bit higher level of skills needed for husbandry wise. And then some type of biosecurity program. Feeding and feed rates. You really should have some type of feeding and feed rate chart listed out your farm. Because feed is such a significant cost. Top five. So you want to make sure you manage that. I've seen so many places waste so much feed. And in turn, you're overworking your filtration system and you're throwing out feed, basically. Some pre-design system. They always tell you what kind of pipe size and, you know, design criteria. Just make sure it's suitable for your needs. A lot of these turnkey or pre-design system cookie cutters are not always suitable for certain species. Or your application. Basic nutrient that's coming out of a RAS system. And this is the reason why effluent come out of a drum filter of a RAS system. This is why we tend to do other. We either have to treat that water or deal with that nutrient or that waste coming out. Or we can use it in like an aquaponics application. It's important because it creates additional opportunity. And then you can get an aquaponics crop within seven to 14 days. Versus your six month to one year investment in your fish. It can generate a secondary crop while removing final waste product. System has ability to grow many different plant species. I myself have done over 300, 350 variety of plants in aquaponics. And it requires, it does require additional staff and knowledge and markets. Basic aquaponics system. This is just a deep water bed, DWC. And you can see how many different variety is growing in one system. And then you can see the difference in day one versus 18 days later, day 19, the growth. This is a small RAS system that uses aquaponics to treat their water tilapia facility. There are some consideration, especially when you're dealing with saltwater system. It's very similar to the freshwater that has the same stream of treatment, mechanical, biological, disinfection. But you just have to make sure the material you use in these components are compatible with saltwater. And then you do need addition from fractionate or protein skimmer in saltwater application. And then the selection of biofilter is very important for salt because saltwater reacts differently to certain materials used in media used in biofiltration. Okay, blew through that pretty quick. I think we have time for questions. A recirculating aquaculture system. Great, thank you. We have a couple of questions in the chat. So next question is about Vircon and whether or not that's the recommended disinfectant. And if so, what are the pros of it over other methods? Vircon, it works really well. Make sure you get the right Vircon. There's one for terrestrial animal and there's an aquatic Vircon. So make sure you get the right one. It's the easiest one. There are other methods. The nice thing about the Vircon, it's very stable versus other like peroxide or potassium permanganate or anything like that. So they're great for foot baths and stuff like that. Awesome. Next question actually came in before you talked about saltwater RIS, but are there any questions or any special considerations? For shrimp in an RIS system? Yeah, shrimp. You definitely want some type of protein skimmer infractionation. And depends on how you have your system set up. You just want to make sure you have the appropriate flow rate just to get the waste out of the system. Because the shrimp system in RIS tend to be larger surface area and more volume. So your water column, so the settling velocity, you have deposits of waste around the tank. So you just have to make sure you have good water circulation to get that waste to a drain. Right. Which kind of leads great segue into the next question. Can you talk a little bit more about the skimmer? The protein skimmer is a vessel that injects air in and it causes a foaming. And that foam has a charge that helps remove that nutrient or that waste. And it's much, much more effective in saltwater or as the salinity goes up, it's more effective. There are some protein skimmer designed for freshwater, but they don't tend to work as well because of the surfactant, the lack of surfactant in the freshwater. There are a bunch of designs out there. I tend to stick with a few brands that tend to work better and been around more. It is a little bit more intensive, energy intensive, because you're using a venturi or something to break up that bubble to much smaller in order to create that foam to remove that nutrient. But in saltwater, it's definitely a necessity. We see that time and time over again. You can't oversize the protein skimmer though. So if your protein skimmers oversized, you're wasting money on the cost of the unit, electricity, but also it's removing certain trace minerals in saltwater that you have to replenish. So be careful on how you size and deal with protein skimmers also. Great. And then the last question at the moment is, can you estimate a cost per cubic meter for a system? No. I would need a lot more information. What species, what density, what's your cost for electric per kilowatt. And so that, yeah, there's a whole host. If someone says they can, they're giving you some really rough rule of thumb. And I really hate doing my business plan based on really rough rule of thumb. I need to be very, a lot more specific to size the system correctly. Great. We actually have a couple more questions coming in, but Dave Klein had a couple of questions. So I'll turn it over to Dave for a few minutes. Yeah, I did. We, I did have a couple come in privately. And one was about role, the role of bioflocculants or probiotics in RAS. And then as well as, well, would you use a bioflocculants? Yes, that's the question. You can, if your system is done right, you don't need them. But you can use some bioflocculant, just make sure it's stable enough that it's not just going to overwhelm and just clog your system. Your screen filters, if it's super fine, you can clog the screen where you have to remove the screen and pressure wash with some real, you know, with a pressure washer, even acid to get rid of that bioflocculant. So just be, be aware. And if it's not needed, I prefer not to add any additional chemical if it's not necessary. Very good. And someone asked about if you would just re-explain where the blower was in relation to the CO2 and not being able to strip the CO2 from the system. Yeah. So the blower is also aeration, but most CO2 or degasser uses some type of positive air to blow out the CO2 or some type of vacuum or, you know, blower working in reverse to suck the CO2 out. I tend to recommend the latter where it's sucking the CO2 out instead of inducing air at the bottom of a degasser because you can actually saturate it with nitrogen because you're blowing air in to the bottom under pressure. And, you know, air is mostly nitrogen versus oxygen. I don't know if that answers the question or are they talking about blower in the system or versus CO2 degassing? Well, I think you were talking about CO2 being a heavy gas and if your blower is placed on the ground. Yeah. So some places, a lot of places have blowers on the ground because they're a big piece of equipment. And if you're degassing over or near a blower, that intake of that blower is sucking in that CO2 and is regassing CO2 into your system versus air. Does that make sense? I think that's what they're, I think that's what they're referring to. And then one last one. Let's see. If you were producing a thousand metric tons of product, how many individual life support systems would you suggest? What's your risk factor? And what kind of risk you're willing to take? The more redundant, the better, but it has to make financial sense, though. If you're so redundant that you lose out financially, you're not sustainable as a business. So I would say at least a few systems. For something like that, it really depends on the species and the market and the volume in which you're getting it to market. So let's say a hundred ton, a hundred metric ton. What's the volume of market each time? I would break it down to that. So when you're harvesting, you're not harvesting the same system over and over. You're harvesting a complete system would be nice. Less stress, less disease problem if you do it that way. Thanks, Wee. I guess there were a few more questions that came in. I'm going to let Dennis propose those. Okay, next up. How if someone wanted a system design, how can they get how can they get one? There's there's a bunch of really good designers out there. Make sure your designer asked the appropriate question. Make sure the designers actually give you some type of mass balance. So they understand how much fish that you want to produce, how much waste you're producing. That mass balance is your like your accounting of your system. They need to give you that. You know, I, we definitely do it as a company. We also review other designs too. So, but there's, there's a, there's, there's a lot of good designers out there. Just make sure they, you get their resume, make sure they have your, your, your species or your type of market in mind when they do it. If it's a cookie cutter or, you know, they have this one, one design to fix everything. Walk the other way right off the bat. Excellent. Thank you. Next question. Very specific. What should the capacity of a UV system be for a 10 ton seawater RAS system? Yeah, that really depends. I would need to understand what your transmittent rate is. I prefer like 95 plus transmittent and you're, you're, you should be talking somewhere of about 60,000 microwatts per second per centimeter square is the dosage rate that you need. If you have more questions, email me. I can give you a much more specific and also depends on what you're trying to control. If you're looking for keep, you know, dealing with fecal coliform or something simple like that. It's 80 or 8,000 microwatts per second per centimeter square, but you're dealing with molds or you're dealing with other pathogens. You could go as high as 300, 400,000 microwatts per second per centimeter square. So it varies depends on what you're having to deal with. Excellent. Our next question. How many times does, should the water circulate in a system of 40 kilograms per cubic meter? One time every hour should be more than enough at 40 kilograms. Okay. There was a general question about if you have any information on mass production of zooplankton and RAS. Um, no, I don't. Um, it depends on what kind of zooplankton you're looking to do there. There's my business partner has done quite a bit of mass production of rotifers in RAS. Um, but, uh, depends on what zooplankton, but if you want specifically a rotifer, whether it be the S or SS, um, you can definitely contact my business partner, Amy. She's done that for quite a bit of, uh, quite a while. Uh, two more questions at the moment. Um, how, what would the cost, what would be the cost of the most expensive system you have seen in terms of, you know, dollars per cubic meter? Um, I would probably have to say some of the, the more intricate, um, um, marine ornamental or the, the, uh, um, some of the tuna facilities in Japan. Uh, unfortunately I can't say the dollar amount for those because, uh, they have some proprietary stuff that unfortunately I signed something that I can't say, but they can get pretty significant. Um, for some of the, the, the tropical marine species that are ornamental, you're looking at, uh, over a thousand dollars per cubic meter. That's amazing to even comprehend. Yeah, that's, that's, that's pretty nice, but you know, their product, uh, is, is way beyond food fish price, right? For sure. For sure. Um, a couple more questions here if you've got time. Yeah. Um, how, someone asked again about a protein skimmer. I don't know if you can add any detail to the comments you made earlier or. Um, so there's, there's quite a few good protein skimmer out there. If you look up the RK2 website, it's a protein skimmer that's used, um, probably the most commercially used protein skimmer. They're made in California. It was designed by, um, Robert Crector. Um, uh, he took a design from Germany. Um, and those are probably the mainstay in our industry. Uh, and definitely the public aquarium. So if you look at every major aquarium in the U.S. Is the RK2 design protein skimmer. Um, I just as a note, I posted a link to the RK2 website and on their website, they have a kind of an explanation to write up about how the technology works. So folks are more are interested. They can go there and take a look at that. Get a little bit of background information. Yeah. Um, and then the last question we have at the moment for beginners who wish to add aquaponics. Can you give some things to avoid in terms of chemicals adding to the system? Um, for example, sodium bicarbonate or, you know, what are alternatives? Yeah. So you should minimize the amount of chemicals you add to the system. Really though, the top three chemicals you have to add to your system because it's not found in the fish feed. And when I say fish feed, I'm talking about commercial fish. Yeah, you want me to. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.