No more thinning and weeding an ingenious way to sow carrots
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UqeUND-8mQA
Howto & Style
 Hey friends, and in this video, I'm going to tell you about a really cool way to grow and sow carrots. There will be a few videos, they will be released throughout the season, and now I will demonstrate to you how to sow carrots. If you're planting carrots for the first time, I gotta warn you, carrot seeds are coated in some essential oils. And that means that carrot seeds don't absorb moisture very well and don't sprout very well. So irrespective of how you plant carrots, it is essential to soak the seeds beforehand. To accomplish this, we take a small container, add warm water to it, and place the seeds inside. And we leave the seeds to soak for about two hours. This will be enough. In two hours, you can see the next picture. If it's like mine, practically all the seeds have sunk. That means it has absorbed moisture, it's still fresh, and it will sprout. If your seed is still floating on the surface after two hours, then it is most likely old, completely dried out, and will germinate very poorly, or it may not germinate at all. Then we grab a container, we'll also need some paper towels, I fold them in two layers, or toilet paper. We put it in the bottom of the container, pour a little water from the seeds, and pour the remaining water and seeds into this container to moisten the paper towel so that it is very wet. If it is actually wet, you can drain the excess so the seeds don't float, but sit on the damp surface, avoiding water contact. Then we take some plastic wrap and tightly cover the container. We need to keep it moist. And we put the container itself in a warm, dark place for sprouting. If the air temperature in that place is somewhere around 20-25 degrees, then carrot seeds will sprout in just two days. Additionally, remember to create several openings in the film to allow for the evaporation of excess moisture. Furthermore, observe that within a mere 48 hours, you can observe the emergence of roots from my seed, indicating that it is now appropriate to proceed with planting. And in order to cultivate carrots without the need for weeding and thinning, I will utilize cardboard egg cartons for the process of growing. Those who have been watching me for a long time know that I've been using this method for quite a while now. And after a while I came to the conclusion that we need to sow carrot seeds a little differently in egg cartons. And now I'll show you everything. First of all, you gotta poke some holes in them egg cartons. And this is easier than anything to do with regular scissors piercing the bottom. And here's the main catch. I used to poke holes in all the cells of the egg trays and plant sprouted seeds in each one. However, when the carrot grew, it did not have a lot of space. And I reached the conclusion that we need to create openings in every alternate row. In the rear row, we create openings, then we omit one row, and in the center we also create openings. And then we skip the subsequent row, and create openings in the rear row once more. There will be enough room for carrots when they grow up. Then you gotta prepare a special soil mixture for planting carrot seeds, because carrots love loose and very moist soil. And make it very easy. We'll need coconut substrate, city soil, as well as sand in proportions of two parts soil, one part coconut substrate, and one part sand. We combine all of this mixture and fill the egg cartons. You have to compact the soil, and then utilize your finger to create holes in those compartments where we previously made the openings, going through one row at a time. And then with the help of tweezers, we take and plant the seeds, and the white part is the root, and it needs to be planted with the root down and the seed up, so that the carrot sprouts quickly. Yes, it is a bit of a hassle, but you will only have to do it once, and then you will not have to thin out your carrots or weed your carrots, because the cardboard from egg cartons will not let the weeds grow. This method saves time and effort in the long run. If you don't believe me, you can come to my channel and check out the videos from previous years, where I grew carrots using this method. The harvest really turns out equal and big, and carrots, besides watering and thinning, don't need any care. Then we fill each hole where we planted the seeds with soil. You can sprinkle it on top and fill in the gaps. And then you definitely need to have a good beverage, but you have to clean up the entire mess. I just showed you where I planted the seeds. We leave trays, for example, in the greenhouse or make a small greenhouse. Temperature in the greenhouse or hotbed is higher than outside, that's why carrots sprout faster. And then I'll take these trays out to the beds, but I'll show all of this in the next video. And soon I'll show you a really cool and easy way to sow carrots, where carrots sprout very quickly and also give a great harvest. Subscribe to my channel to not miss out on these videos. Wish you a successful day and we'll see you in the new videos.