NEW Fendt tractors forage harvester & more | Ten Hove Contracting | Spring 2024
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UqmE1xWizmw
Autos & Vehicles
 We'll be right back. Welcome to a new video about Dutch contracting company Tenhover. We follow the family and their employees during spring 2024 in the Netherlands. There is a lot of exciting new machinery to show you, so let's get straight to the action. It is late March and slurry is being applied to an arable farm. The Fent 927 and Harrant Cotter slurry tank you will have seen before. The injector on the back, however, is new this year. This Ava's Quadro disc injector replaces the older Kaweco model. It is fitted with single discs that measure 41.5cm in diameter. The tank's ability to crab steer is clearly visible here. This helps to spread its weight equally across the field. Spring tines on the back help to incorporate the slurry when injecting on arable fields, such as the ones here. The injector has a working width of 9m and allows for a high work rate. The fields that are being injected are behind the farm, so it is only a short distance across the farm track to the yard. Slurry is brought to the farm using lorries and a slurry container acts as a buffer. offer. It doesn't take long before the 22 cubic metre tank is full and driver Harone is soon back in the cab for another round. She opens up and gives you a light head left. Join us after a short break for more spring action in the polders, involving three fent tractors working together in one field. Welcome back. We join the farmer as he cultivates the field using a John Deere 6155R. On the back are a subsoiler and springtime cultivator, which allow for a one-pass system without the use of a plough before the following crop is planted. We stay in the Flavopolder for our next scene. No less than three fent tractors are working together to prepare this field for a following crop of maize. Tenhover is somewhat of a pioneer using this system, consisting of a subsoiler and overtop rotavator. Three new Low Disturbance Ava subsoilers have been bought this year. By now you will have spotted the new Fent 930 Generation 7. It is one of three new tractors that have joined the fleet. You will see the other two later in this video. With 300 horsepower on tap, the tractor has more than sufficient power for this 3 meter combination. If a cover crop is grown in the field, the flail mower in the front is also being used. Last but not least, we see the Fent 939 also working in the field. It is using a Strauch Rotavator, which works along a similar principle as the two Alpago Inversa machines. You might remember that we have filmed in this field before. It lies right beside a large dike that separates land from water. The dead straight lines of Flavor Land are clearly visible from the air. It is time for another short break with some ads. Welcome back. It's now early May, and May sowing is well underway. Due to the large amounts of rain that fell during the spring months, it wasn't always easy to get crops in the ground. Thanks to the 12-row Monosem Precision Drill, a lot of hectares can be covered in a short time. The Fent 718, which has already clocked up considerable hours, is still used frequently. This year, both drilling outfits have been fitted with new Allianz VF 480-80 R46 row crop tyres in a dual-wheel configuration. This means the seed is sown in soil that is not compacted by the tractor's tyres. A hub in the front rim lets the outer wheels run freely, which prevents the ringing of the tyres when turning. Driver Dirk Yon takes a trailer full of IBCs with him, so he doesn't have to drive back to home base for refilling. It can also be carried by him. in theban just doesn't have to drive back to home base, but when it addresses his anar of the oil Police Foundation Pvt used summeralia sold for fur and fl hör. Anyway, he knots about the ehrlich to be charged. The iron Directory br堂 phi and the steel have been used from that oven, though it doesn't have to inflow the air around the We'll be right back. The second drill combination is working not far away. This consists of a brand new Fent 718-1, which is one of a pair that Tenhover have hired from the Fent importer for this season. The 12-row Monosem drill was purchased last year, together with the Alpago front tank. This is used for traditional granular fertilizer. The two different drill combinations allow customers to decide what kind of fertilizer they prefer. It is also possible to add microgranules with the seed on this drill if required. The one control concept from Fent is by now well known, and this tractor, having only clocked 24 hours when filming, uses Fent's own RTK GPS. This avoids overlaps and gives dead straight rows. It is fitted with the same 48cm wide tires, and with its silver-stroke grey dual wheels, it looks distinctively like a North American Fent tractor, which the manufacturer previously also sold in this color scheme. We'll be right back after this short break with more impressive new machinery that is involved in the first cut of grass silage for the year. hasta el paso convergings coreific multi- Zone Not only three new tractors have been hired for this year, this Fent Katana 650 also joins the fleet. You will remember that Tenhover were looking for a new forage harvester last year. In the end a deal was struck with Fent and this year the 650hp Katana will join the Krona Big X after their aging class Jaguar was sold earlier in the year. The Fent 724 is also towing something new. This Stroutman Magnum 11470 forage wagon is literally brand new, as it is its first job today. It is the latest generation of forage wagons from German manufacturer Stroutman and it can be used both to pick up silage or, as seen here, carting from the forage harvester. Fent introduced themselves onto the forage harvester market back in 2012 with the launch of the Katana. Its latest generation machine was presented in 2019 for Harvest 2020 and they have gained a small but steady foothold in the Netherlands. Its six-cylinder MTU engine has a variable cooling fan and 25 extra horsepower compared to previous models. Tenhover's Fent 720 S4 is pulling another Stroutman forage wagon from their fleet of five machines. The Yungby L11 loading shovel is using a Hilaris grass spreader to evenly spread the silage across the clamp and then packs it down with its 11.5 tonnes. For the fields which are located further from the farm, the company's Fent 927 along with a three-axle Stroutman wagon and the second new Fent 718 help the Katana forage harvester out. It is a beautiful spring evening, early May and as the sun sets, the employees from Tenhover are still harder work. It is a beautiful, harder work. It is a beautiful, harder work. It is a beautiful, hour windsoron head towards the pastas to reach the Fent 650 from Deus. It is a beautiful church for all kinds of people while they are physically working together, and the earth will be special. It is bad for many people from the surface at the Saskatchewan's distance from there at the battleground. For most of the fun, you will find a wonderful人. For the sense of attraction of L11 moments of terryol, the light fields have is beautiful inaudible frames, but it is a great a beautiful day average in couvert to the Allez幅 camping. So the next week you're staying at the dear wear with the lenghts and you can pay for more than a laser so generous. Before we see our final motive, it is time for one more short advertisement break. We will be back soon. Welcome back. It's a day later from where we left off and we're still following the grass harvest. Here the farmer is raking with his Steyr 4085 Compact and Fela rake. Tenhover's Fendt 724 and Stroutman wagon are soon to follow and the tractor is utilizing all of its 240 horsepower in this tough first cut. The wagon is the first 11 series in the Netherlands. The original Magnum was launched in 2019 and what is special about the new series is that it can cut grass with up to 84 knives, delivering a theoretical cutting distance of 22mm. The cutting rotor has been overhauled by the manufacturer to be able to fit in an additional 40 knives compared to the 10 series. Its massive VF850-45 R30.5 tires are another special feature. They were ordered by Tenhover to work with a tire pressure of one bar so they have a large footprint. This is essential for work in low-line fields such as these. The hydraulically driven pickup uses plastic tines which are said to wear less compared to steel ones. red device. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. It uses a movable front, which is now a common feature on forage wagons. With these final aerial shots on a fine May day, we finish this video about spring 2024 at contracting company Tenhover. We hope that you have enjoyed this thorough update. Please let us know what you think of the video, and if you do have any questions, don't hesitate to ask them in the comments section below. See you next time. Goodbye.