Agronomy Revision | Raj Pre PG 2025 | JNKVV & RVSKVV JET | ICAR PG | Class 1/10 | Abhishek Sir
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UrxeRzFC-8s
Education
 Thank you. Thank you. Hello, welcome to unique agriculture classes. We have informed you that we will start a new routine and revision classes. So, today is our first class. We will talk about the previous questions. We will talk about the last class. We will talk about the last class. We will talk about the last class. We will talk about the last class. We will talk about the last class. We will talk about the last class. And if you are a last class. You will be sure to choose your first class. If you are new to subscribe and like this video. So, let's go ahead and do this. First question. It will talk about the last class class. So, do you think about yourself? Best. Please tell me.blic soft We will talk about those times. Wow, we will talk about because yourAC tin isPor Gua lonely by his wife. Yeah, yeah, My My Earth You We C Search If okay other 7 äh you you Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Of Dabei 몇 100 Be software 9 language So if we talk about micro watershed, we have different classification, we have different classification, we have different information, so if we talk about the explanation, so first we write first, macro, I don't know, second, third, third, milling, fourth, micro, top, fourth, literally whatever is called which we call. That is newspapers, Praise and fertig n sites such as my everything So a lot of lessons here, as I mentioned before, which may require many messages and then which mayasses and Then by. So the most in this question is micro Micro's it is If we could call our watershed We call it to be Biennale Seizing Lets size and size, shape and patterns divided by the size. If we talk about macro, more than 50,000 hectares. Then we talk about sub macro, then we talk about 10,000 to 50,000. Then we go to mini. Mini is 1000 to 10,000. If you go to mini, you will get to the mini. Now, less than 100, what is mini? What is micro, sub macro, mini, micro and mini? Mini is small, then less than 100 hectares. Then micro, 100 to 1000 hectares. Mini is 1000 to 100 hectares. Then micro, sub macro, then micro is 50,000 hectares. If we talk about micro, more than 50,000. Okay, let's go. Then we go to next question. Next question. If, one second. If an irrigation of 5 cm depth is applied to the wheat and the CPE cumulative pan operation value is 5.55 cm. What is the billions or four points? First of all, what is the bottom and the CEF for wheat? What is the terms given now? In the same way, we ask the right answer within the wheat. We ask the right answer. What is the root for wheat? Take it. Take it. Take it. Take it. Take it. Take it. Take it. Take it. Take it. Take it. Take it. Take it. Take it. Take it. Take it. Take it. Take it. Take it. Take it. Take it. Take it. Take it. Take it. Take it. Take it. Take it. Take it. Take it. Take it. Take it. Take it. Take it. Take it. Take it. Take it. Take it. Take it. Take it. Take it. Take it. Take it. Take it. Take it. Take it. Take it. Take it. Take it. Take it. Take it. Take it. It's X. Take it. It's called Min ley. use it to make it. You have to implement the Q sample such and led Thomas She spoke of Me reference voltage so this is the panic rate of the watch is that yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah you can't see you did not go to know yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah Permulate Grain Content Fat Percentage First option is 1.5 Second option is 2.0 Third option is 3.0 D option is 5.0 What about the answer? Livy List Subscribe To Your Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Next. Browning or hollow stem of cauliflower is mainly caused by. If you're estasal, your skullأself will also worry that it might cause surgery to harm the damage and damage. Thank you. Tell me I can invite Premier colleague Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. By eating So, what is the C option? What is the C option? Water soak relations are made in leaf. This is the brown color of the area of water soak. This is the leaf. This is the brown color of water soak relations. And the stem is completely broken. That we can remove by water sociale due to the damage is done. In a settlement, it comes to pressure on water темпер 우 акos, we can use water Eduardo's veins and we can spray Monizada Arugue's here So, what is your lipf And it is quite simple. browning cauliflower more than you know it is a disease in cauliflower so what is the whip tail whip tail whip tail in cauliflower which is the molybdenum deficiency which is the nitogen deficiency this is the right this is the right right let's go further let's go and share next question next question plant takes most of phosphorus enough form of okay I will take here plant takes most of phosphorus enough form of but you can tell what the right answer will be okay okay okay okay okay okay Jen kevyb paper pattern and syllabus analysis full video I have told you that I have 3 live you can see that you will find the questions and the paper pattern 100 questions I will tell you answer let's talk here bead to imagineues Photoshop check 9 Centralいました 22 search No loads . . profit a me can be me me me me me Do not have a level right? So that decided to come to the right answer. Green đầuatti sub-p r Ka Little Is the highest scale A lot of 7ph Insains 7ph if we talk about phosphorus then we find neutral pH most of the neutral pH if you ask the exact pH then 7.2 we find H2PO4- if we talk about acidic then you find which is iron? if we talk about this then we find the male iron H2PO4- and then HPO4- so if you increase the acid condition then PO4- 3-I-N available and this plant doesn't take uptake and you all know that phosphorus is a nutrient which is the most likely available which is the most likely to be fixed form or the soil is fixed so this plant will not take uptake and if we talk about seed or fruit then phosphorus which form is phytin Your name is powerільş although you may get that your phytin does florida for certain seeds in Geri ID to 8 Sen and now next Next, which of the following is nitrification inhibitor? First option is thiourea, answer sulfur coated urea, neem coated urea. What type of answer is the right answer? Step 2 or now. Next, this is a perfect response. Are you kite READ FROM TRI obstinate? comment comment comment comment comment Kunta tops call nitudes by AstraZeneca combines Translation from l dates nitrogen requests is a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a we Mn plus 2 In this form, the plant will update the plant. And in supercane, the phalloplite is the same. The plant will also be the same. Okay? And you can also tell that photosynthesis is the same role. Okay? If we talk about magnesium, Mg. Mg is the central element. This is the central element of magnesium. Magnesium is the same. I am not the same. If you are confused, this is the magnesium. Okay? Let's go. Next question. Next question. Crop that produce highest amount of surplus residues. Residues left after any competing usage such as kettle feed, animal bedding, heating and cooking fuel, organic fertilizer in the country. So, you will know that the most residues in thari crops are the same. Crop that produce. But, you will know what the right answer is. No question. Thank you. Thank you. Let us know what the right answer is. Then we will talk about important topics. If you have questions about the exam, I will explain it well. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I am I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I and the water will be used. In addition, it adds to moisture retention and dry land farming. Dry land farming, we do not know, moisture is a better practice. In addition, in the widely practice, in the Maharashtra, we get more lakes oil, and in the MPA, we get more use in the use. Okay? Next. Yes, we have the question today. least FORriel. As forέρ-1 is in important topics. control the persistent effect of nutrients okay either I will nutrients and and and and and and and and and and and and nutrients excess nutrients 1 और यह इंपे इंपी की टेफिशेंसी से आप इनपी एक्षिस अमाउन बढ़ेगा या एंपे के जो है and when boomer舞i są does notH Despanners, when you use copper and zinc you now we have to get down on the way we find that now afterback frustration and theachte of you can Introduction is the position of copper zinc اَ Nosso p water we will talk about phosphorus, so you can talk about iron, zinc, copper, magnesium, what happens? Iron, zinc, copper, magnesium, so if you have a phosphorus content, then it will be antagonistic effect. Iron, zinc, copper, magnesium, next we will talk about the next. Important important thing about boron, boron antagonistic effect is Molybdenum, M-Boron. Okay, let's talk about calcium, magnesium, calcium, magnesium, potassium. Okay, so you have 4 antagonistic effects, which are the chances of you. So let's add to this First Tip. Okay. Good. Good. That is actually our session year 9. I hope you will have such a best session for you. with your blood in this spot fall have Thank you.