What is Sustainable Agriculture?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Usse6N3hgBU
Education
 I'm going to give you a brief presentation that we will call sort of a definitions of sustainability and a summary of actions of sustainability across agriculture in the U.S. And I'm giving you, I'm going to make it as brief as I can, so if I move it a little fast, you can ask our hosts for the slide deck, they'll be happy, they've got it, they'll be happy to share it with you, or you can email me, I'll share it with you. So the content of the slide deck, the slides isn't so important as the concepts that we're trying to communicate, which is that sustainability is nothing new for agriculture. The United States' agricultural producers, and I say agricultural producers for the last 10,000 years, have been refining our practices to be sustainable every day. This is not new to us, this is our thing, it's not their thing, it's our thing. And that's been my message since I got my PhD at Oklahoma State in 96, and the reason I got my PhD in biosystems engineering was to understand this process even then. So this has been my message since I, frankly, since I met Norman Borlaug in 1983. This has been a focus of mine. So let's talk about sustainability. First of all, three axioms of sustainability. Everything is connected. Now around 2000, the United Nations, Kofi Annan, convened a group of about 2,500 scientists worldwide to evaluate ecosystem services, the things we get from the planet that we need as a species. And what they discovered in this time, let's see if this works, it actually does, is that all the constituents of well-being, human security, basic materials for a good life, freedom of choice and action, the American way of life, all of the things that we value as people come from the land. 2,500 scientists, five years to tell us that everything we value comes from the land. My grandfather, Mennonite farmer, grew up in Oklahoma. He was a third generation Oklahoman. My dad's side of the family were six generations Oklahoman on the Cherokee side, formerly of northern Georgia. My grandfather had a ninth grade education, and he taught me that from the time I was this tall. So the point I'm making is these are these concepts that are considered to be groundbreaking, earth-shattering, are part of our fiber, part of our way of talking and understanding. And yet we somehow shy away from the debate. We somehow feel like I've seen in agricultural communities around the nation this sense that we shouldn't be engaged in the dialogue. Well, that's been our problem, hasn't it? We haven't told the story. I'm a scientist. I believe in objective facts, and sometimes there are good stories to tell, and sometimes there are bad stories to tell. And I don't judge them. I evaluate and I tell the story of the facts. But I can tell you there are great stories to tell in agriculture. Dr. Place gave you a story of beef earlier. We have to be better at telling the story because everything is connected and everything is changing, and that rate of change is greater than anything we've ever experienced as a species. This is a rate of change that we are still trying to get our hands around. So I'll talk to you a little bit about that change and its impact, and we're all in this together. You saw the rate. If you were at breakfast this morning, you saw the increase in population of Tennessee. Sarah talked about increased population in the United States. We're going to talk about the increased population in the world. Because we are a very successful species. Very successful. Because of our ability to prosper from the land. Starting about, my grandfather was born in 1908, so starting about this period we started seeing this incredible increase in population. Now if you were a beer brewer or a bread maker, this looks like the growth of yeast in a little vat of warm water with sugar. As long as there's water, as long as there's sugar, there's growth, right? And it foams up the top and it's time to put it in the bread or to mix it with the beer, which is even better. All of that, this is what the exponential growth looks like. It's no surprise. But think about the changes. I grew up in Oklahoma. I went to Oklahoma State University. I lived with my grandparents in Pawnee County about 25 miles from OSU. So I lived on their small farm while I was going to college. And so I would, on the weekends, I would work with my granddad. He just ran cattle at that point. One Saturday in October, we were out in the wood lot cutting firewood. And we were sitting down drinking coffee. But his grandpa didn't work that hard at that time. I was happy about that. But I did much, so we were sitting down drinking a cup of coffee. And he pointed to a red elm tree that had been struck by lightning a couple of years ago. And there was this fork in the red elm tree. And he said, my granddad taught me how to make an oxbow out of that. How many of you know what an oxbow is? All right. So I was getting a bachelor's degree in agronomy at the time. And I was taking a history of agriculture class. So I understood. He was talking about a 10,000 year old technology. The technology of using beast of burden to plow fields. An oxbow is that old. He was telling us, so he was explaining to me how to do something that has been part of human culture, well, for thousands of years, certainly. Then we went back to have bologna sandwiches for lunch. And we watched the space shuttle take off. Those are the kind of changes my grandfather's generation experienced. Transformational changes. Now, my daughter watched the last space shuttle hauled down a street in LA to become a museum. And she's an aerospace engineer at NASA right now. And what she's seeing and what she's working on, I don't think it's confidential, are autonomous space vehicles that can go into space and land without, and bring things back without pilots. And they're already doing that. So the autonomous vehicle systems are already in use in the space system. So that kind of change has happened in my lifetime, in your lifetime. That little clock I'm using up here is an example of this. And we'll come back to that in a minute because it affects us. So the time of our parents and grandparents, we saw dramatic changes in social economic issues too. The globe went from a planet dominated by kings, czars, emperors, to a relatively democratic place in the time of our parents and grandparents. World Wars I and II were really transitional for that. Now we're in this time of our children and grandchildren, which we're looking at for the 21st century. And we cannot anticipate the changes that are coming. Dr. Place talked a little bit about genetic technologies and biochemistry and biotechnologies that are emerging. That's just the cusp of it. Integrating that with information systems technologies. The human experience is going to be different in 50 years than it is today. But I can tell you what won't change. We'll still eat sunlight from the land. Now, let's focus in a little bit, by the way, this little decline up here, this is not some Mad Max apocalypse where everyone dies because of some disease. This is simply what happens when humans become prosperous. We have fewer children. How many of you have more than five siblings? How many of your parents had more than five siblings? What's the matter? You don't like kids? How many of you have more than five kids? More than five kids? See, you don't like kids, obviously. This is... No, having children is a human mechanism for prosperity if you have no other mechanism for prosperity. My mentor and colleague, Norman Borlaug, who was the father of the Green Revolution, said they set about not to feed the world but to reduce the population pressure on the planet by reducing humanity from the tyranny of hunger. Prosperity is the best birth control ever discovered by humans, according to Norm. So what we're about truly is a global endeavor, providing safe, nutritious, and affordable food to people. That's the...it's one of the most...it's the highest endeavor that humanity could engage in if you think that population pressure is a threat to our planet. Let me tell you, environmentalists are coming around to that way of thinking. Because without shifts in our current reproductive rates by 2050, we'll hit 12 billion. Median estimates about 2015 were that we were going to hit 9.25, 9.8 billion. But there's a lot of uncertainty about that. And uncertainty is dramatically connected to, directly connected to, the economics of the world. The economic downturn of 2008 increased this projection 250 million. That's how this matters. What that means is what we do today, what we do in the next 10 years, will determine the world our children live in, because demographics are destiny. It will determine what kind of world they live in. I can also tell you, and my grandfather would reinforce this, and my Cherokee ancestors as well, that when technologies and cultures collide, technology always, always wins. Despite what our European colleagues and cousins think. We already use 42 percent of earth's surface for agricultural production. When you consider rangeland and pasture, 42 percent of earth's surface is already being used, because we're very good at converting land from pasture, forest, to agriculture. We've been doing it for a while. Problem is, we've got another couple of billion people coming to dinner, and we've got no more land. We'll eat the planet if we don't find a way to feed 10 billion people. So this is our common challenge. Now for you, I know this is a familiar story. So consider this choir practice. Let's tune up our voices so that we tell this story more effectively. You are about feeding the world so that we don't eat the planet. That's what intensified production of agriculture does. Producing more on that one acre of land with the same amount of water, the same amount of fuel, same amount of other inputs. Producing more saves the planet for other living things. The challenge we also have is that where the population is going to grow ain't going to be from around here. Now the good news is it ain't going to be from around here, which means we'll still have land that we can produce in, but it means that we're going to have to be able to get it to where the food is needed, and they're going to have to figure out how to pay for it. Now just to remind you, because it's always worth saying all food comes from the sun, Dr. Place pointed this out with a better graphic than this. We eat sunlight, we cycle nutrients and water. Nutrient water and water aren't destroyed in our process. They're just cycled, and if we're not careful, they all go to the ocean, and we got to get them back. Water comes back from the ocean, naturally nutrients a little harder. I am not ever, ever, ever going to eat meat produced in a petri dish. I cannot, so we have environmentalists, yeah. It amazes me. So the State Department asked me to go to France a couple of years ago, so I spent a couple of weeks in France, and I am not a Francophile. I don't particularly like, but I came around. I fell in love with Paris. I hate to admit it, but I did, and I fell in love with the French people. So I'm sitting here talking to this environmentalist who's smoking a cigarette and saying, your genetic modified corn is going to kill us. I said, not you, buddy. So risk management is something. We've got to tell our story better about these processes. So the environmentalists who hate our genetically modified corn, which allows us to produce more with less inputs, with less fertilizers and pesticides, less fuel and tractor passes on the ground, those folks are going to eat meat grown in a petri dish? Again, it's irrational. I'm from Arkansas. We're the Razorbacks. We have an old adage, don't wrestle with a pig because it just gets you muddy and irritates the pig. Sometimes you just back away from some debates. Food security, knowing where your breakfast is coming from. Aldo Leopold, who sort of started the modern conservation movement with the Sand County Almanac, a recommended read for all of you, Sand County Almanac. He died in 1946 in Wisconsin fighting a little range fire. He had a heart attack. The book hadn't come out yet, but he was a wildlife manager at University of Wisconsin. He said in the opening statements, he said, we could little worry about these things natural until we didn't have to worry about where our breakfast comes from. Food security is a conservation issue. Food security is a humanitarian issue. Food security is a human rights issue. Food security, what you do, makes life better for people on this planet. Choir practice, folks, we've got to sing that verse better because if we don't sing it, no one will hear it because there ain't no one singing it for you. I guarantee it. I don't mean to be a little that combative, but I've been doing this for about 25 years and we're losing. We're losing the message. We're losing the message because we expect people to understand what you do. We expect them to understand why you do it without telling them. And those days are gone. All right, current status of food security. Our most food insecure places in the world are some of the most violent places in the world. I will tell you, one of the areas that gives me the greatest concern, and I'll be there in October working with a large group of people, is India. India is one of the largest, most populous democracies on the planet, and if we're not careful, it's going to go south on us. We need to be very supportive of our cousins in India. We need to be very supportive of their emerging experimented democracy, and we definitely need to be helping them with agricultural production. They can't afford to buy our stuff. They better learn to grow their own, and they better get better at it, or it's going to turn into Afghanistan. And they have nuclear weapons. So, happy thoughts. Food security is economic, not agronomic. So I went to meet Norman Borlaug. I was a young idealistic agronomist. I was following in Norm's footsteps, the only agronomist to ever win the Nobel Peace Prize. So I go to Texas A&M, go into his office in the agronomy department at Texas A&M, and sit down, and he says, and I can't do his accent. He has a still thick Norwegian accent. But he says, hunger is no longer an agronomic problem, it's an economic problem. You have to understand the human condition from the land up and from community in if you're going to solve the hunger problem. And my thought was, well, crap, because I'm getting here getting a degree in agronomy. How does that, what does that mean? And his response was, learn everything you can learn about how people live on the land, and how prosperity from the land drives the human condition. And then you can help address this complex challenge. So that's what we do. My Resiliency Center is about interdisciplinary engagement of all the disciplines, including historians and humanities, political scientists, even art, to understand these issues and bring them together to solve our complex problems. 1.2 billion people live on less than two bucks a day. That's the bottom billion. We have 850 million chronically malnourished brothers and sisters on the planet. Access to food is limited by purchasing power and social disruption. But we feed, we grow enough people to feed the population of the earth right now. Right now. Sarah talked about 20 percent food waste in beef. The average number of, according to the World Wildlife Fund, for food waste in the U.S. is about 45 percent. Most of that's fruit and vegetables. We waste food. So I was at a meeting last year on greenhouse gases and agriculture, and they're saying, what can we do to reduce greenhouse gas production in agriculture? It's a horrible, horrible thing. And my response is, as long as you waste 45 percent of it post-consumer, it doesn't matter what we do pre-consumer. It doesn't matter. You've got to solve the problem post-consumer before you're going to make any difference pre-consumer. I said, you're trying to fix a tube, a leak in a bicycle tire, and someone came in with a pair of shears and cut that tube in half. And you're patching the leak up here. And the tube's been cut in half. You've got to not, you've got to fix the big leaks before you can stop the small ones. So that means food waste is our, probably one of our biggest challenges from a sustainability perspective. We've made incredible strides, and we'll talk about those in just a minute, of the inefficiency in production across agricultural spectrums. But as long as we lose 45 percent of our production post-harvest, none of that matters. That's partially because we're a fat, prosperous society, and it's easy to throw things away because we don't value them. Look around my house, my neighbors think I'm a little bit junky because I don't throw things away because I grew up in Oklahoma. My grandparents and parents grew up in the Dust Bowl. Even a tin can has value because you can put bolts and nuts in it. So the problem with that is you accumulate a lot of crap that way. But that's kind of the farm mentality too. How many of you, you have an old tractor that's finally, you're tired of replacing the head gasket. Well, it's still good for parts. So that's, you're not going to get rid of it, are you? You know the, I know the story. We'll get off of that. All right. So here's the weird convergence that's happened in the last decade. And Sarah can give you story after story of this. Suddenly, the world's largest conservation organization, the World Wildlife Fund, the panda people, are embracing U.S. agriculture as the solution to global conservation of wildlife. Intensification of agriculture is the way we're going to not eat the planet. Freezing the footprint of food. And who does it better than us? Well, the Australians are a close second. But that's it. We got in trouble because we taught Brazil in the 90s how to grow soybeans and now they're competing with us. Well, I think that was a good thing. We're going to have to do more of it because we shouldn't be afraid of that competition. We're still better. And let me tell you, what do you think the future is going to be? That's a question. We'll answer that in a minute. Because I'm not going to answer it. I want your answer. What do you think the future of production, what are your grandkids going to be doing different than today? A lot. What Jason says, we're going to have to have a lot more research to solve this problem to freeze the footprint of agriculture. A lot more research. The other thing that Jason says, and Jason's a senior vice president of World Wildlife Fund in the U.S., says that we have persistent issues that always come up when you talk about sustainability in agriculture. Locally grown, GMO, organic and natural, and none of those matter. Those are not sustainability issues. Those are market differentiation issues. That's a way to get more money for your head of lettuce. That's all that is. Which is fine. I'm happy to pay more for organic, local, anything because I like our small scale local producers. But that's not making it more sustainable. Well, economically perhaps. What makes it more sustainable is it uses less water, erodes less soil, stores more organic carbon, and drives less land use change. Those are the important issues. Now why do the big companies care? I'm in Northwest Arkansas. We have, I wear a little blue badge that says, welcome to the University of Arkansas slash Walmart. We are very proud of our, of our small retail establishment to the north. They're incredibly, and they're doing some weird things trying to understand this. So we look at the supply chain, a simplified supply chain of global food systems from production to consumption, and even that's breaking down the whole direct market wholesale retail with technology shifting on us. Amazon thinks they're going to drop it from little helicopters onto your front porch. That's a nice myth, but still, autonomous vehicle deliveries already happening. So we're seeing those dramatic changes. Why do they care? Do they care because they have suddenly some love of warm and fuzzy creatures in Central and South America? No. They're concerned about safety of their products. Lee Scott, who was the senior VP, or senior, who was the chairman of, CEO of Walmart some iterations, three CEOs ago, at a big milestone meeting 10 years ago, said, it is bad for business, write this down, any business people in here, because it came from the CEO of Walmart. It is bad for business to kill your customers with your product. So remember that. It is bad for business to kill your customer with your product. Security, unintentional or intentional adulteration, recalls for all sorts of adulteration are becoming common, and stability. Ability to actually put products on the shelf. The ability to get the raw materials and be able to put your product on the shelf so your customer can buy it. Branded products, people who have Hilsher Farms or now Tyson or others on that who are now customer facing brands are General Mills, Kellogg's. They're terrified. Coca-Cola. They're terrified that they're going to be affiliated with or associated with a bad thing. And it doesn't matter if that bad thing is based on reality, because some young entrepreneurial woman from University of North Carolina with a degree in computer sciences can start a blog called The Food Babe and suddenly change the way retailers have to respond to food, even though she has no knowledge of food systems. She just has opinions. That's what we're up against. And that's what they're up against. So what do we have to provide? I'm a scientist. We'd better be providing solutions. So what we've been working on, and this gets down to it, is providing aligning the priorities in this discussion with U.S. Ag, providing focus for activities programs, amplifying impacts across all the things we do. So we're doing the same thing. We're talking the same language. We're working on the same process. This creates a common language of methods across all of our Ag sectors, expands opportunities for engagement, and enables sharing of technologies. Because here's what we're up to. If we consider the sort of soybean erosion, erosion of soybean fields, where this is the probability. And most of the soybean producers don't erode very much soil. So most of the soybean producers are down here. This is the average. If you're going to stop soybean erosion, do you give these folks awards? If you're going to reduce the soybean erosion, what do you do? How many extension people here in the room? What do you do? Do you work with these folks? No, you give these awards for being your highest producers, your most progressive early adopters. You work with these folks who have the highest eroding fields. And from what I heard this morning, it probably is going to be in western Arkansas, or western Tennessee with all the sand. I saw some really terrifying, look like Oklahoma in the Dust Bowl pictures of the challenges you have with that sandy soil. We have the same problems in Arkansas. So you work with highly eroding fields to move the curve, to make things better. And that's what continuous improvement is about, making things better. Making things better, not solving every problem every time, but moving the curve. Just making it a little bit better, then a little bit better, and a little bit better. We've been doing that for a long time. We wrote a standard, an ANSI standard, because that's what engineers do about this. The ANSI standard for continuous improvement framework with the American Society of Ag and Biological Engineering, my professional society, which simply says we define, we plan, and we implement. Which is what all of you do every season, and maybe every day. You define, you plan, you implement, and if it doesn't work, you do something different. You go back and you re-plan, plan again, and do it different. That's continuous improvement. We set goals, aspirational goals, strategic goals, which we do together with stakeholders. That's what we're doing around the country with stakeholders that are vision goals. And we have everyone in the room, including the conservation organizations and the Humane Society occasionally, or some of their representatives, or others. So we have multiple stakeholders here, but then we draw a line here, which is like a brick wall, and we say management goals, tactical and operational procedures, that belongs to the farmers. We never tell farmers how to farm, producers how to produce, processors how to process. We agree on our big goals together, and then the way we get there is ours, which is to say yours, though I do have a small orchard. So define. Let's talk about organizations. We say that if you're going to define an indicator of sustainability, it has to be outcomes-based, not practice-based. It has to drive change. It has to be science-driven. There are some wonderful, wonderful stories about wonderful soil amendments that make your crops grow 20 percent faster. And it's mostly sugar. Technology neutral and transparent. This is just a number of the organizations, many of you represented in the room, who are working together to implement this strategy. So we found alignment. Over the last decade, we've built alignment across our agricultural producer community on this process. I'm going to share a few minutes with you of Field to Market. This is the row crop producer sustainability initiative. I was one of the founding members and the board of directors. They're about 12-year-old organizations. The Alliance for Sustainable Ag focused on defining, measuring, and advancing sustainability of food and ag. Field to Market is a multidisciplinary organization. NCGA, National Corn Growers, USB, Soybean, Cotton Council, Cotton Incorporated, USEC, a number of our corn producer groups are members. It's row crop. It's not animal ag, even though dairy is in there. It's not animal ag typically focusing. But look at all the other supply chain and branded product companies who are paying to play, who are supporting the activities. So we defined what our environmental greenhouse gas or environmental key performance indicators were. Greenhouse gas emissions, energy use, water use, land use. Our first tier, then we're also looking at water quality, nutrient use, and habitat and biodiversity. And which, first of all, we ask how far have we come? Let's tell the story. And so we have a national report. You can go online and find this national report where we looked at for each of our major crops, land use, soil conservation, irrigation, water use, energy use, greenhouse gas emissions. And we all index those to 2000, year 2000. So what that means is if it goes this way, it's better. So we had five-year averages from 81 to 85 through, so from red to green. So this way is better. Look at soil conservation and corn. Look how much improvement we've seen. Now our yields plateaued from, we didn't see much yield difference really. In fact, we saw, uh, uh, moving down, we saw a little bit of a plateau on yield over the last 10 years. Greenhouse gas emissions have come down, energy use has come down, plateaued a little bit because of increase in irrigation in 2011. Uh, and irrigation water use, of course, came up a little bit. So that tells a story. So we've got it for corn. That's this, the interior space of this green line is called the field print. Now look at soybeans. Again, water use has gone up because we've had some dry, hot years. And irrigation capacity has gone up. But yield has gone up too. And that means land use has gone down. So when we talk about resiliency, the ability of our agriculture producers to still bring in the crop in spite of environmental change, this is a measure of resiliency. We had a major drought and we were able still to bring in crops because we have adaptive capacity. We had the capacity to irrigate. Not cheap, not free, but capacity to. And then cotton. Cotton, now part of this is because we don't grow cotton where we used to anymore. It's almost all dry land, West Texas cotton now, which is bizarre. But there's still, uh, cotton is, has a, has a mixed story to tell, but it's still very good from a greenhouse gas and energy perspective. And I'll tell you, they're, they're using this story. And I've got to, I'll be back here on, on the 20th of this month, which is just a couple of weeks, to have a follow-up meeting on, with Cotton Council on sustainability metrics and moving this into competing for global markets. Because this is an outward facing marketing program. Now the U.S. Roundtable for Sustainable Beef has been engaged in the same thing, multi-stakeholder group. You can ask Sarah about their, their approach, but basically stakeholders defined their six most important indicators and selected the process and metrics, starting with this approach, working with a group of, of, uh, producers and other stakeholders, uh, went through a process of discussion and debate, and went from 160 indicators to six. And that process, those high priority indicators are animal health and well-being, efficiency and yield, water resources, land resources, air and greenhouse gas emissions, workers' safety and well-being. And I would hazard to bet there's not an ag, there's not a beef producer in this room who would disagree that those aren't important things. That's the point. Let's tell our story. National Port Board has done the same thing. They're doing a, uh, we worked with them five years ago to develop their first list. Still too many. We said you need to narrow this down to fewer. They're working on that now. Now we've been using a process, and Dr. Place indicated, you know, a life cycle assessment to try to measure these things. Let me tell you the power of measurement. We get hammered in agriculture for using so much water. Well, it's the largest human endeavor on the planet. Of course we use a lot of water. Because there are 10 billion of us that eat at least once a day, sometimes three times a day or more. Of course we use a lot of water. So the question is, what is the impact of it? Well, we looked at pork water use, and we asked how much water does it take to produce a pound of boneless pork? It takes 19 gallons. 75 percent of that's from the feed. Only 20 percent from drinking water. That's, this bar looks at this like this is a pie chart. So the initial concept from the National Pork Board is they would go into some big cooling water or rearing barn technology innovation to reduce their water use. Dillinger, at least mythically said, when he was asked why he robbed banks. That's where the money is. Don't, don't rob my house. There ain't no money there. Don't, so don't try to fix a problem where it's not. Find out where the money is. Find out where the problem is and fix it. And that's what we're doing with our approach. We're helping to figure out how to move that curve by figuring out where the problems are. The other thing this allows us to do is to analyze the impacts of different production practices. For example, preventative use of antimicrobials would increase the water consumption of pork by 17 percent if we took the preventative use of antimicrobials out of pork production. It would dramatically increase greenhouse gas emissions and water use in pork production because of infant mortality, because of piglet mortality would go up and we'd lose more pigs. So environmentalists, consumer advocacy groups may be pushing for a technology, but if we don't have a counterpoint to say, you know, maybe you ought to reconsider that because if you do that, here's, you're squeezing the balloon. We take that away, it's going to increase the other. Those are some of our concerns. And I love this picture, the 1957 to 2005 broiler. Environmentalists get upset. Some of my environmentalist colleagues get upset when they see this because they think, well, this is the better bird. I grew up eating this bird. That's the better bird. So again, we're getting better at these things, but we have to tell the story of why it matters and how it matters. So planning and implementation is where we are now across these goals, working with our groups to set goals internally and with stakeholders. Because if you can have a conservation organization agreeing on your goals and then deferring to our producer communities to actually implement the goals and then report back with science-based metrics, then we can move the conversation away from blame and to the problem. And then we can implement strategies. Thank you.