Learn EXACTLY How Hybrids Crops Work! | Full Guide for Story of Seasons A Wonderful Life
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uWp-kkaVI3c
Gaming
 Hey y'all, PawServe here, and in this video, I want to go over hybrids. It is by far my most requested video, and for good reason, because it is what? Complicated! Cute Avril Lavigne. Okay, anyway, so grab a snack, sit back, and let's dive right into the video. First, what are hybrids? Hybrids are a combination of mixing two different crops, fruits, or flowers together. Hybrids typically sell for more, and some of them actually have special effects too. First, you need to get to year two, Spring First, where Takakura will invite you into his house. Here is where you will find Vinny. Vinny will stay here permanently and be roommates with Takakura. The next step is to befriend Vinny, and before you ask what does he like, he just likes some good old-fashioned talking. Yep, he won't accept any gifts at all, but he will accept you speaking with him over and over and over again. You can basically max out his friendship in a single day. You'll know you've reached a high enough friendship with him when he gives you the option to mix seeds. After Vinny gives you the option to mix seeds, you're going to want to head over to Vesta's farm. Vesta sells all the basic seeds all year round. There are eight basic crop seeds and five basic tree seeds for you to buy there, and these will be vital to jumpstart your hybrid journey. I started off by buying five of each crop and fruit seeds, but you can go at your own pace. After you buy all of your starter seeds, head on over to Vinny. What we are going to be making are called Tier 1 Hybrids. Tier 1 Hybrids are a combination between two basic seeds. So let's put a tomato seed first and a strawberry seed second. And after a cute little cutscene, Vinny is going to give you something called a berry tama. The names of Tier 1 Hybrids are going to be a combination between both seeds, which is berry for strawberry and tama for tomato. You can also mix, let's say, a tomato plus a melon, and that will give you a melatoma. It works the same way with fruits, so you can combine a banana with some apple seeds, and you will still get the proper outcome, assuming that RNG is on your side, and you'll be getting a ban apple. All right, next up is Tier 2 Crops and Fruit Trees. You get a Tier 2 crop or fruit tree by combining two hybridized Tier 1 crops. Tier 2 crops are extra special because they have a much different look than Tier 1. You're going to see very bizarre things like light bulbs, cookies, teacups, teapots, all kind of sports balls like soccer balls, fruit balls, and even star fruits and coconuts. There's so many. Another special thing is that they all come nameless, so you can custom name all of your Tier 2 crops and fruit trees. All right, let's make a Tier 2 crop together. First, I'm going to use a green tomato seed, which was a mixture of tomato and watermelon. In our second slot, I'm going to use a melatoma seed, which was a melon and tomato mixture. And after this really cute cutscene, Vinny will hand you what looks like to be peanuts, but you can name it whatever you want because Tier 2 crops are nameless. Unfortunately, these only grow in summer, but we can do something about this to make them grow all year round. There are four special flowers that Vinny will accept. First, we have the happy lamp flowers, which you can find in summer. Happy lamp flowers will create all year round crops, so you can plant them whenever you want and you can harvest them whenever you want. Second, we have sage soil flower, which you can find around the dig site in the fall. These will allow you to plant your seeds in any soil quality. Third is the upseed flower, which you can find on the way to the dig site in winter. This will allow you to make any crop or seed S rank. There is one big rule to flowers, though. All of these flowers are not compatible with fruit or fruit trees. You'll notice after you're done using all three flowers that the appearance of the seed has changed. The clear diamond icon is a happy lamp flower. The solid diamond is a sage soil flower. And the S rank of the light blue appearance to the seed bag is the uproot flower. There is one more flower that has its own special rules, and that is the trick blue flower. Trick blue flowers can be crossbred with basic crops and fruits in order to get blue versions of them. The other three flowers you cannot use as fruit, but blue trick flowers are special and you are able to use them with fruit. If you want a simple way to remember what can be used with a blue trick flower, it's anything Vesta sells. Let me give you all an example. Let's use a basic tomato seed and a blue trick flower. And once you combine them, you're going to get a blue tomato. They look just like the basic crop that you used, except blue. And their using recipes are going to be slightly different, so do not use a blue tomato in a tomato recipe because it can't mess up. If you need more blue trick flowers, Van sells them year-round for 100 gold apiece. I'm going to show you all a few more tier 1 and tier 2 combinations before we close out the video. This one is going to be a watermelon and a melon, and that's going to give you something called a mellow mellow. If you combine a carrot and a watermelon, that's going to give you a caramel. Like caramel? Oh my god, that is so cute. Another tier 1 hybrid is a strawberry and a potato, which will give you a po-berry-toe. It is so cute. Some of these names really crack me up. I'll show you a few examples of tier 2 crops as well. First is going to be the tomato plus a saw rod, and that's going to give you a teacup. Oh yeah, like an actual teacup. And it looks so cute. It's like a plant teacup. Like, I don't even know what to say, but I want that in real life because it's really cute. Another tier 2 hybrid is a berry mellow and a carberry. You put those together and you'll get a yellow light bulb. It's like an actual light bulb. They're so cool, and you can make four different ones too. So, I don't know. I love these so much. And these might be the ones that might influence your children. I want to guess that this one might influence Scholar, but don't quote me on that because I didn't get enough time to test it yet. If you know more information about some of these very special tier 2 crops, let me know in the comments below. Because there's different things like the tea set, light bulbs, soccer balls, footballs, basketballs. There's a lot of like very interesting crops that seem like they go along with career paths, but I'm not sure yet. I haven't tested it. I want to include a few final thoughts about hybrids and some things to keep in mind. The fertile field is going to be the best bet for planting all of your hybrids, but for trees, you don't have to plant them over here. Although between me and you, I'm probably going to plant some trees in the back of the fertile field because it's going to be nicer to look at first just looking at the hill the whole time. If you don't know how to unlock the final field or the amazing field, as it's called in this game, what you need to do is make one hybrid with Vinny, and then the next day, Takakura should offer to clear the back of the farm for you. It costs 60k, but it's really worth it. If your hybrid fails, Vinny will give you back some basic seeds. And it is possible to fail a hybrid even if the combination is correct. Definitely save your game as much as you can while experimenting with hybrids. Make sure you save all the special flowers like the Happy Limp flower, the Sage Soil flower, the Upsea flower, and the Blue Trick flower. I'm going to include a beautiful Google spreadsheet made by Kwatika, who contacted me over on Instagram and was ultra sweet. She made this beautiful spreadsheet to share with the community, and I am just so overwhelmed with the love. Like, I happy cried when I was talking with her. In the future, when I have more time, I wouldn't mind making a full video of all the hybrids, like a mega video, but I think for now, this is a great medium. I'm showcasing some of the hybrids, but also providing a really good resource as well, so you can have access to it earlier. Thank you so much again, Kwatika. Thank you all so much. We are now over 1,800 subscribers. If you have any other video suggestions or games you want me to play, leave them in the comments below. I have so many video ideas for this game, so don't worry, I'm not going anywhere. If you have not subscribed already, consider doing so, so you don't miss out on any of the videos that I'll be releasing. I also stream over on Twitch at 4pm EST. I am currently on day 460 of a two-year challenge, where I have taken no days off. That is absolutely no days off. I have streamed in some capacity every day for 560 days. I am mixed with being really proud about that, and also extraordinarily embarrassed. If you want to stay connected with me, I am most active on Twitter, Instagram, and Discord. But honestly, if you want to just stay on YouTube, that is totally fine as well. And that's it for me. I'll see you all in the next video. Take care and have a wonderful day.