Gardening Indoors- (mostly edible) Plant Tour
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uWVSMrQwM6k
Education
 Hello everyone. I've been sharing a few posts about some of the vegetables that I'm growing indoors during the winter here in Ohio and I've gotten some questions about my indoor growing setup. So today I'm going to do a mini indoor garden tour of sorts. My indoor growing setup is still pretty new, still growing. I'm still learning and changing a lot of things, but I'll show you what I have going on right now. Now this is my original grow light rack and this is what I use most for starting my seedlings. It has T12 fluorescent lights and it works great for seed starting, but not so great for growing plants to maturity. Out of desperation, I started putting plants under here because I really had nowhere else to go with them, but I soon found that this was just not an ideal setup. One of the posts that I had shared was lettuce that had been grown under full spectrum LED versus under these fluorescent lights. And you can really see the difference between the two. Again, fine for lettuce seedlings, but once those plants get a little larger, they really start stretching for light. And that was even with keeping the tops of these lights just inches away from the tops of the plants. So you can see here, I've moved pretty much everything out. I've still got one tomato under here because I want to see if this thing will actually set and ripen fruit under these fluorescent lights and what that fruit might taste like. I've got some herbs, some cilantro and parsley under here. And even there, you can see that those are stretching. And then some of this romaine lettuce. And then up here, I've got my onion seedlings. And in addition to this not being the best light option for mature plants, I had to get this thing cleared off because I'm going to be starting seed for spring very, very soon. And I need the space on this rack. Over here in this corner is my first legit indoor grow setup. This is what I first went with when I decided I wanted to start growing tomatoes and peppers indoors. And this is just a flimsy greenhouse from Amazon. This isn't necessarily what it's sold for, but I would be afraid to use this thing outside. I think it would fall apart or blow away, but it works well in here. And because we keep our house relatively cool, this helps to give my heat loving tomatoes just a little bit extra warmth. In this greenhouse, I'm using an optic LED G-Max 150 grow light with a combination of deep red and full spectrum white LEDs. And I found that it works really well, especially for trying to grow fruiting plants like tomatoes. I actually do have one little lettuce tucked in here and you can see how different that looks compared to the lettuce that was on that grow rack with the fluorescent lights. Same variety. This is just a bit smaller container. And I just think growing in these clear cups is so cool because you can get a clear view of that extensive root system. This is another thing that I posted on a while back. The tomatoes in this greenhouse, I decided to do a little experiment with. I don't use Miracle-Gro fertilizer and I have bad mouthed it in the past, but I wanted to see what would actually happen in a controlled environment like this using different fertilizers. So I had some Miracle-Gro tomato and vegetable fertilizer that I was given and never used. And to most of the tomatoes in the greenhouse, I applied that fertilizer and I actually used less than the recommended application rate on the Miracle-Gro application instructions. And you can see now what I have going on here is a lot of leaf curl. Now there are several causes for leaf curl in tomatoes, but one of them is an excess or imbalance of nitrogen. And in a controlled environment like this, it's the most likely culprit. Tomatoes given too much nitrogen will typically develop big lush plants and foliage at the expense of fruit production. In an outdoor setting, these plants can be more attractive to insect pests and therefore suffer more damage than their counterparts who have not been fed quite so richly. So it's not much of an issue in my indoor Microdorf tomatoes, but it's still worth noting. Now compare this to a plant fed with the natural fertilizer I typically use. This plant is a little younger, but it's growing and developing in just the way I'd like to see with my tomatoes. I fully expect the flavor of the fruit from this plant to be superior as well, but time will tell. I know a lot of people will argue with me and say that it doesn't matter that plants will utilize the nutrients in a fertilizer, whether it is synthetic or from a naturally derived source. But I find results like this really interesting. Now I am planning to do some additional testing. I want to actually do it outdoors in the soil this summer and kind of monitor my different results. But I have and always will stick with either naturally derived fertilizers or just completely natural products like animal manure, compost, earthworm castings, anything that's going to feed both the plants and the soil microbiome. Now off my little soapbox there, let's move on to my next setup. Over here I've converted an AeroGarden hydroponic system to this. I've grown in this several times and I just wasn't a big fan of the AeroGarden's hydroponic system. But this light works pretty well, so I've got a variety of compact globe basil planted in these pots now. And of course, one of the easiest greens to have indoors in the winter, microgreens. I try to keep a pretty consistent supply of these going. But I was gone last week and fell behind. So I'm starting a new batch here. Last time it was peas. This week it's daikon radish microgreens in this handy little kit from Knowing Nature. And once these sprout up, they'll get plenty of light sitting right next to my AeroGarden light. This one is my newest grow setup. So this is just an industrial wire shelving unit, relatively inexpensive. I like these because the shelf heights are adjustable and because they're all open, making it easier to attach whatever kind of grow lights you have. Now I attempted a similar setup to this down in my basement. My idea being that I would have another seed starting station down there. It ended up not working. It was just too cool. I had mice down there nibbling on the seedlings and then a rat snake that followed the mice in and found him basking in my grow lights one day. So I kind of gave up on that idea. But I had all these assorted lights down there that I was not using. So I have brought up some of them and I truly have a mishmash going on here. First are the T5 fluorescents. Now on their own, these wouldn't work well for these plants. But I'm hoping that in combination with some of these other lights, this might be enough for these tomatoes. These are CX home full spectrum LED lights featuring red, white, and blue, or cool lights. These were super easy to just attach up here with zip ties. They all link together so I can hook as many up as I'd like. They come in a pack of four. And these spotlight looking lights are from AeroGarden. These LEDs also feature the red, blue, and daylight white lights and have a clamp style attachment. The downside here is the spotlight style light doesn't have much coverage area. And on this top shelf are more tomatoes. So these I did have on my seed starting grow rack with the T12 fluorescents for most of their lives. I just moved them here recently so they're stretching a bit for light. And these are a little younger than most of the prior tomatoes I showed you. So a little later on the flower and fruit set. These were also fed with the natural fertilizer and otherwise looking healthy. I'm hoping they're happy under these new lights. But the thing I'm most excited about here are these little mini cucumbers in the back that I'm testing out. Now this is a new variety that I am trialing for the first time this year. This one is not released on the market yet, but I will be sharing updates of this when I get fruit and when the seed is actually released for sale. But these are so fun. Now I was actually instructed to pinch the main growth node when these started growing and that was to keep them ultra compact. I did not do that with this plant, but as you will see in a bit, I have a plant on another rack where I have done that and you'll be able to see the difference, but still stays pretty small. And I am just now starting to get some teeny tiny little baby cucumbers on here, which is really fun. And then on the bottom row, I've got my arugula. The arugula is under a hydro farm flora wing fluorescent light. And this one is a full daylight spectrum, super bright light, that brightness compounded by the reflective surface under this hood. This arugula is very happy under here. I'm growing these for cut and come again. So I'll let these get a smidge taller, cut them for salads, and let them regrow as many times as I can. My family has complained that my grow lights are taking over the house. And that's not entirely true. I still have several rooms that I could expand into, but they do seem to be creeping outward. Back here in our little reading room, I've got another setup. Now I liked my first little tomato grow tent with the optic LED light so much that I decided to recreate another one. My plan was to use this to grow all of my mini cucumbers initially. But unfortunately, when I went to get another G-Max 150 light, they were sold out on the optic LED site. So I grabbed this one from VivoSun, which looked very, very similar, had similar specs online. And it seems to be working all right so far. I will say that I do like the optic LED light better. It's more powerful. It had an easier attachment system. The difference on the dimmer switch was much more noticeable. This one, I can hardly tell any difference between the different strength settings, but the proof will be in the pudding. If my cucumbers turn out some good fruit back here, then the Vivo light will be just fine for future use. So I've got more of those mini cucumbers back here. As I mentioned, this is the one where I snipped off the main growth point. So this one has started maturing quicker. For any of you who top your tomato or pepper plants, this is the same concept. I just forced the plant into maturing fruit more quickly. So you can see this little guy here. This is the biggest cucumber I've got so far on any of these plants. And this plant, I must have actually not snipped off low enough because he's continuing to grow and a little slower to put on fruit, but there's some babies there. And in the back, I've got some more little mini romaines. I'm sure they're not entirely happy. This is a little warm in here for the preference of a lettuce, but I'll get some salad greens off of there nonetheless. And while they're not edibles, I will share with you guys quickly the house plants that I have growing. And I will forewarn you, house plants are not my strong point. Unlike my edibles, where I do all of this research on the best varieties and how to grow them and try to do everything perfectly, house plants, I kind of just grab things that look neat from the discount racks at the store. And if they survive, they survive. If not, I throw them in the compost. I don't like to spend a lot of time on growing things that I can't eat, but it is nice to have a constant source of greenery in the house through the winter. So we are lucky enough to have this big Southern exposure window back here in our living room. Don't mind the muddy paw and nose prints all over the door. I have this clean and then we kind of went through a super muddy spell and the dogs, well, they're dogs. So ignore that. I've got pretty standard house plants here. That was an umbrella plant back there, a few red edge Dracaena and a fiddle leaf fig and back down here, some King's Choice Ivy that refuses to die. And I forget what this one is an aloe, but not aloe vera. And tucked back in here, lettuce and this little lemon tree, which was on death's doorstep when I brought it in for the winter, but it sprouted new leaves and is even blooming. And these smell heavenly. I've become really reliant on pothos because it's so easy and great for lower light areas. And of course, snake plants and lucky bamboo, which is actually another Dracaena, not bamboo in this Eastern exposure bathroom. And I get a lot of questions about growing in windows. And what I will say from my own experience, even with this nice big Southern exposure, I don't get enough light here in Ohio through the winters to successfully grow much of anything in this window. Now it's enough to keep these house plants alive and that's about it. Typically when I try to start seeds or grow something like lettuce, they just stretch and stretch. Now there are little tricks and workarounds. I talked about starting seeds in this window in another video, but I use a little light reflector box trick to help with that. But the trouble is the short day length and we are so often overcast. I think I heard we had like five sunny days in all of December and January. If that's not entirely accurate, it's pretty close. Now starting this time of year, so starting in February, as the days get a little longer, we tend to get a little more sun. It's a lot easier to keep things alive and growing and thriving in these windows. But even then, come our frost free time, I take all of these plants and just put them outdoors. They're a lot happier out there anyway. And then of course, I'm always trying to expand my collection of lower light lovers to kind of scatter in other places throughout the house. So if anyone has any hard to kill house plant recommendations, definitely let me know. But don't say succulents because I always kill them. I, it must be overwatering, I'm not sure, but I am not good with those types of plants. Well, that wraps up pretty much what I've got growing indoors right now, uh, here at the beginning of February. And I'd love to hear from you. Tell me about your indoor growing setup. What has worked well for you? Are there certain lights that you love, certain racks or grow stands that you really like, um, even certain varieties that have done well for you indoors? Drop a line in the comments below and let me know. And be sure to stay tuned because next week I'll be sharing all about my indoor seed starting setup. Thanks for watching, and I'll see you next time.