Are you buying the right Coffee Beans? (Beginner's Guide to Coffee)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uWWVNq5GHp4
People & Blogs
 In this video, we are doing a deep dive into the world of coffee beans. And straight up, coffee is one of the most confusing items to purchase. For example, what is the difference between a $14 bag from Starbucks, a $20 bag from your local roaster, or a specialty coffee that somehow costs $75 for 10 ounces of beans? Also, how can two coffee beans say they are a medium roast in the bag? However, even though these both look like a medium roast, when I actually brew them side by side, one of them is literally one of my favorite coffees I've ever made at home. The other, I don't want to buy again. So over the past couple of weeks, I bought over 20 different varieties of coffee at different price points. I visited a local roaster, tried roasting my own coffee beans at home, and just tested a bunch of different types of coffee in order to come up with this coffee bean hierarchy that can explain the flavor and price differences in the coffee that is available for you to buy. And by the end of this video, I have three promises to deliver on. One, you will understand the flavor fundamentals of coffee, which weirdly enough will also make you a better home cook because there's a lot of the same fundamentals at play. Two, you will understand how the price of coffee changes. And lastly, using that information, you will be able to explore and buy coffee beans you love. And the beans that you end up buying are always the most important piece in creating a cup of coffee you enjoy. And in fact, when I first started drinking coffee, there were two big mistakes that I made. First, I was only focused on trying to perfect how I was brewing my coffee and not how I was buying my coffee beans. For example, one of my biggest takeaways in this video is that you should stop buying coffee based on light, medium, and dark roast. First, there is just no standardization or regulation when it comes to using those terms. And secondly, there are so many different varieties of green coffee that even if they are roasted to the same level, you will end up with two completely different tasting coffees. And we'll learn the food science behind why this is shortly, but it's kind of like buying a car and the only thing you're considering is the color of the car, not the make, model, or size. The second mistake I made is that I never tried different coffees side by side. And this is just silly because the Specialty Coffee Association literally grades coffee beans by doing a cupping, which is adding freshly ground coffee to a cup and pouring hot water over it. Everyone can replicate this at home, or you could just go to your local coffee shop where they likely could do a cupping for you. You don't need to be able to describe in words why you like a coffee when you taste it side by side. You'll just know. It's quite easy to pick out which one is which here. Like this is definitely that, I think the single origin from Mexico. Just completely different flavor profile than the others. Now, don't get me wrong. How you brew your coffee is very important too. And there are about 10,000 different variable tests that I think would be pretty interesting to try, maybe in a separate video. But we have to start with a bean that we actually like the flavor of and want to extract into our water, or else we're going to be optimizing for something we don't even like. So for today's video, let me tell you about the brewing method we will be using from today's sponsor, Aeropress. Here's my one-liner on why you should pick up an Aeropress. It's the best way to start playing with your coffee. Let me explain. For this video, the Aeropress made it exceptionally easy for me to test various coffee beans side by side with minimal cleanup. It uses a patented three-in-one brew technology where the beans and water are immersed together like a French press. But what makes Aeropress different is the use of air pressure to push the brew through the coffee grounds and filter into the cup. The pressure speeds up the extraction to create a cup of coffee that is incredibly smooth, almost velvety, and exceptionally delicious. Then you pop out the puck, give it a rinse, and you are ready for your next coffee. Additionally, the Aeropress lets you control all of the elements of a brew. So it's kind of in this unique spot where a beginner can make great tasting coffee right out of the box, but a coffee connoisseur can try hundreds of different recipes. Aside from hot coffee, I've actually been experimenting using room temperature water with a longer extraction to simulate a cold brew that doesn't need to be started overnight. So how much is it? Well, at $50, it's affordable, but we have a deal that makes it even better. You can head to aeropress.com slash Ethan and use code Ethan to save 20% off your order. So if you want to pick up an extra one to do some testing yourself or to gift a family or friend and you guys can do some testing together, take advantage, get your 20% off, and thank you again, Aeropress for sponsoring this video. But now let's learn how to find some great beans that are worth brewing. So you would think we're gonna start at the bottom of the hierarchy and work our way up, but it actually makes so much more sense to start at the top and work our way down. For example, this bag of Gesha coffee cost me $75, but what makes it expensive is not how it was roasted. What makes it expensive is how it was grown and the limited supply. Now, does it actually taste that much better than like a $15 or $20 bag? We'll find out at the end of this video, but first let's get in to roasting. So for each section of the coffee hierarchy, I'm gonna give my high level takeaways that you should know right up front. Then I'll give you the detailed context behind how I came to these conclusions because when it comes to coffee, it's so easy to get deep into the details and completely lose sight of the big picture. From a flavor perspective, every bag of roasted coffee beans has a unique chemical composition of solubles that we can extract into water to make coffee. And these solubles are what create the flavor profile of a cup of coffee. Some coffee beans will have soluble aroma compounds that remind us of berries and flowers. Others have notes of nougat and chocolate. Some solubles make our coffee taste bitter. Some taste acidic. Some make the color darker, some lighter. How does this actually work? Well, we'll get into it shortly. But secondly, from a price perspective, the roasting process is a constant price in the production cost of coffee. For example, one of these beans' cost of goods sold is $9.38 per pound. The other is $32.45 per pound. However, the production cost stayed constant at $5.45 per pound. The significant variable cost of the final bag that we buy from a roaster is really the green coffee that was used to make this coffee and any additional fees like transportation or a holding fee. And we'll understand why the cost of green coffee can fluctuate so much in the other areas of the hierarchy. And finally, from a buying perspective, my biggest unlock when it comes to browsing coffee to buy is this. Stop buying coffee beans based on light, medium, and dark roast. This is becoming, or I would argue, is an outdated way to buy coffee beans. The first problem is there's no standardization or regulation when it comes to listing light, medium, or dark roast on a bag of coffee beans. For example, the light roast at Starbucks tends to be much darker than the light roast from a different roaster. And this is why when it comes to buying and finding coffee, you'll have to understand this entire pyramid. And again, up until just two years ago, I would buy coffee purely on if it had light roast on the bag or not, and not pay attention to anything else, and never would have bothered to pick up what is now one of my favorite coffees ever. Like, this is so unique to me. It's like almost fruity and chocolatey. It's hard to describe, but for some reason, I love this, like, flavor profile in a cup of coffee. I also posted a poll to the community asking to guess the photo of a coffee bean with the aroma notes listed as berry, rose, and whiny, and showed three different beans with visually different roast levels. The results ended up being almost a perfect distribution to show that no one really knows what they're talking about when it comes to light, medium, dark from a visual perspective. So keep these takeaways in mind, but now let's get into roasting, and here are two big topics I want to cover. First, why do the prices of roasted coffee vary so much? And for this, we'll break down the cost between commercial coffee like Folgers, mass market roasters like Starbucks, and specialty roasters like the one that is local to you or maybe you can find online. And secondly, how does roasting create the flavor of coffee? And for this, I got to go in person to Medici Roasting and get footage of their process before trying to roast my own green coffee at home where I'll taste under-roasted and over-roasted coffee. Additionally, we'll explain why two different coffees, even if they are roasted exactly the same, can taste completely different. At its most basic, roasting is where heat is applied to green coffee in order to kick off several reactions that transform the green bean into a roasted one, and this is where the complexity of the flavor of coffee is created. These reactions include dehydration, the Maillard reaction, caramelization, Schrecker degradation, and pyrolysis. And we'll get into these shortly, but it's important to know that these reactions are not unique to coffee. When we caramelize onions, bake a loaf of bread, or sear a steak, these reactions are typically happening in some form. And to get started with roasting, we need some green coffee, so it's important to understand, where does processed green coffee come from? And there are a few different ways that a roaster will buy green coffee from a producer. First is fair trade, which basically guarantees to pay a price that is considered sustainable, or a small premium above the C price if the market rises above the fair trade's base price. Secondly is relationship trade, and this is where there's an ongoing relationship between the producer of the coffee and the roaster of the coffee. And then third is direct trade, which is just buying directly from a producer. And as Hoffman notes in the World Atlas of Coffee, the idea behind all of these buying models is for roasters to try to buy more traceably, to remove unnecessary middlemen from the supply chain, and to pay prices that incentivize the production of higher quality coffee. So what does higher quality green coffee even mean? Well, we'll get to that shortly, but the big takeaway here from a price perspective is that there is a direct linear relationship cost here for the roaster. So the lower the cost of the green coffee that was purchased, generally the lower cost of the final roasted coffee we buy. And on the other hand, the higher the green cost of the coffee, the higher the cost of the final roasted coffee. And in today's market, it feels like there's three pretty distinct price bands where we have the option to buy coffee. The lowest price is what I'll call commodity coffee. Think your Folgers, Maxwell, or Instant coffees. Secondly is medium price kind of mass market roasters. Think your Starbucks, Dunkin' Donuts, or maybe the grocery store brand of the whole beans. And the highest price is typically specialty roaster. So an example of this is going to your local roaster to buy the beans that they have roasted on site. Or today, a lot more specialty roasters are showing up in the grocery store regionally and nationally, or they can be bought online and sent to you. So to make a pound of roasted coffee, here's what that equation may look like across these various roasters. Now, these are not real numbers, but they're probably a reasonable estimate for educational purposes. And I want to point out a couple of things here. First, in order to make one pound of roasted coffee, you may be surprised to find out that it typically takes 1.3 pounds of green coffee due to the moisture loss that happens while in the roaster. It's kind of like a hidden cost in there. And just as we talked about, the big variable cost is the green coffee, and specialty coffee roasters are typically paying the most for a couple of reasons. First, they are buying higher quality green coffee. We'll learn what that means later. And secondly, they are buying lower volume of green coffee. For example, a mass market roaster who is buying 100,000 pounds at once is likely able to get a better price than a specialty roaster buying just a couple hundred or a thousand pounds. Additionally, the production costs include all the costs associated with getting the green coffee roasted and into the bags to sell. This includes things like the overhead of salaries and labor, the machines, the buildings, and the bag that holds the coffee. And of the three, specialty roasters likely do have a higher margin on their coffee beans, but they are selling a much, much, much lower volume than a mass market roaster like Dunkin' or Starbucks. Also, this is the margin on a bag of coffee, not a cup of coffee. There's a whole other range of costs associated with every cup of coffee from barista salaries to machines, the cups used to make it. A lot going on there. And as someone who has an accounting degree in a past life, this really reminds me of kind of a basic cost structure you would go through in accounting 101. And I'd say in general, the specialty coffee market is very transparent with how their coffee is priced. For example, one of the reasons this Gesha coffee costs so much money is because it's said to taste really good and it has a very limited supply. So the green cost of this coffee is much higher than this one. However, the cost to roast them is more or less the same. Now, is the flavor that much better than a $19 bag of coffee? Well, that's a completely different question we'll find out at the end of this video. But now let's cover this. How does roasting create the flavor of coffee, which will also help us answer why you should stop buying your coffee based on light, medium, and dark roasts? Now, before we get to my weird roasting test, let's take a look at how coffee is roasted behind the scenes at a specialty roaster. And thanks again to my friends at Medici for letting me film this process. They were super helpful in making this video. So the roasting process starts by choosing one of the green coffee varieties that were purchased from a producer. And I'll explain this graphic a bit later, but these are five varieties of green coffee on the left that were processed differently, grown in different origins and are different varieties of coffee trees that will all react differently during the roasting process to produce their unique flavor. In this case, we chose a natural Rwanda, which was a new green coffee that had recently been purchased and started loading a batch of 16 pounds into the hopper. Once filled, there's a vacuum that starts sucking up the beans into the roaster. And at the bottom, there's this little magnet separator that will remove any bits of debris, rocks, metal, or anything that's not coffee that may have been in a large bag of green coffee that was purchased. The green coffee beans are then dropped into the main roaster where we can see it through this little window. And Madison, the roaster at Medici, has a roasting software that is keeping track of various temperature points along the way. This includes the roaster itself, the bean temperature, and much more in order to create a roast profile for this bean that will be saved and used for future roasts. Now, we're going to get into the flavor science of what's going on as we see this coffee go from green to yellow and various shades of brown, but the two main variables that are being played with are temperature and time. In this case, the final roasting temperature was 416 degrees Fahrenheit, and the roast took 7 minutes and 40 seconds. And as we'll learn shortly, changing how much time or at what temperature can significantly change the flavor of the roasted bean. For example, you could go hot and fast like the caramelized onions or low and slow and gradually bring up the temperatures, leading you to quite different results. Anyways, once that roast is done, the beans are immediately dropped into a vented chamber with air that quickly cools down the bean to stop any carryover cooking and completely stop that roasting process. Once cooled, they are brushed out into a container and then sucked up into one more hopper where they can be transported into a container for storing before being ready to bag. And this was another batch of coffee roasted earlier that I got to bag up on the machine and send it along the line, which is now available for you to buy. Okay, so we generally understand how we go from a green coffee bean to a roasted one from a price and process perspective, but now let's switch gears a little bit and answer these three questions. First, how does roasting actually create the flavor of coffee? Two, why can two beans that are roasted to light or dark end up tasting so much different when they are brewed? And three, if you should not buy based on generic terms like light, medium, and dark, how do you find what flavor of coffee you enjoy? So in order to do that, we need to go a little deeper and let's start with a weird test. So did I need to try roasting my own coffee beans for this video? Probably not. However, did I think it would make a very interesting test to try roasting my own beans and pulling them off at various points as I'm roasting them and brewing them? Yes. So that's exactly what we're going to do. Now, while I get this set up, let me explain the theory of roasting coffee beans. So for this test, I started roasting a washed green coffee and then kept pulling off bean samples at various points in the roasting process to create this really satisfying profile of the roasted coffee beans. And I decided to brew a few of the samples, some that were completely under roasted, some in the middle and some at the far end. However, before I get to tasting them, let's take a look at how the flavor of coffee is created through roasting. There are five main reactions that are happening during the roasting process. Dehydration, the Maillard reaction, Strecker degradation, caramelization, and pyrolysis. And what makes roasting and the flavor of coffee complex is that these are happening throughout the process and often overlapping. Dehydration starts first as the bean starts to heat up and lose its moisture, but it will continue throughout the process. Now, as that bean continues to rise in temperature, this leads to the Maillard reaction where the browning will slowly start to occur at around 280 degrees Fahrenheit and continue rapidly up to 350 degrees as the amino acids in the coffee bean react with a reducing sugar. This reaction produces hundreds of new aroma compounds that help provide the unique color, aroma, and taste of all kinds of food. It's probably one of the most important reactions we use almost every time we cook. Next is Strecker degradation. And this is a much lesser-known reaction that, as noted by Barista Hustle, Strecker degradation is often considered to be a subset of the Maillard reactions. But with coffee in particular, it has a very specific and important role to play. It contributes to much of the characteristic aroma of fresh coffee and creates nearly all of the CO2 trapped in your beans. Now, as the heat of the bean continues to rise more, the sucrose molecules in the coffee beans will begin to caramelize starting at around 320 degrees Fahrenheit. And caramelization causes that sucrose to break down into simpler sugars and also generate more unique aroma compounds. Then lastly, pyrolysis may just start to occur in the coffee bean if it is being roasted for a long enough time at a high enough temperature. Now, full pyrolysis would literally be lighting a coffee bean on fire and completely breaking it down into carbon-like charcoal, but just a bit of pyrolysis can happen to provide a generic roasty aroma, especially in dark-colored beans that have been heated to a very high temperature. And at its most basic, the roaster is controlling the temperature and time of the roasted coffee, of which there are generally three phases where these reactions are happening multidimensionally. The drying phase, the Maillard phase, and the development phase. And I'm remaking this graphic from Modulating the Flavor of Coffee by Rob Hughes, where in the book he ran a bunch of experiments with the same green coffee, but he changed the amount of time in each phase to see how it affected the flavor of coffee. For example, less time in the Maillard phase typically resulted in lower body, less complex, and lighter flavors. And you may be wondering, how does a roaster decide what level to roast a particular coffee bean to? But before we get into that, let's give my weird coffee experiments a try. Let's taste the rainbow. Yeah, just kind of taste generically grassy and green. Not much going on there. This kind of reminds me of like a toasty green tea. I mean, it's not coffee, but it's not bad. This I would say is just not great. This feels like it wants to be coffee, but it's just like not quite there yet. Kind of tastes like a little watered down, underdeveloped in terms of flavor, which is surprising because when I just smelled the grounds, this one did actually smell like coffee. Yeah, you can tell this one's got a lot more development in terms of the roasting flavor going on. Yeah, that's like a nice level right there. Let's go to the final. Final. This one is like generically roasty. Not much else going on besides that. But I will say this is really cool to show like just how much that roasting process truly transforms in terms of colors, aromas, and tastes in a cup of coffee. And what would be really cool is if I could replicate this test with a bunch of different green coffee beans. So like we'd have a row here, a row here, a row here, a row here, a row here, but that's not really the point of this video. What we are going to answer next though is like how does a roaster decide what level to roast the coffee to and how do you find beans that you really like? Remember, every green coffee variety has its own chemical composition that will go through their unique roasting reactions to create a coffee bean with a very unique flavor profile. Now, as you raise the temperature and time you roast, the chemical compounds will break down into simpler and simpler components, eventually resulting in a completely carbonized coffee bean, which we see on the right, probably not one you want to ground up and drink. However, roasted beans are pulled off well before we get to that carbonization state, and this is why even if two beans look like they have been roasted the same, can potentially taste completely different. Now, in some cases, this difference in flavor can be small or quite large. For example, if you're comparing a Dunkin' medium roast versus a Starbucks one, they may have started with a fairly similar green coffee, so the resulting flavor is going to be fairly similar. But on the other hand, a medium roast from a java bean and an anaerobic process, when I brew them side by side to the Starbucks one, they could not be further apart in what they actually taste like. So even though these both say medium roast on the bag, could not be further apart in how different they taste. This is that anaerobic coffee. It's a java variety and it's just very, very delicious. It's fruity, whiny, kind of has this chocolatey note. And for me, what is great about this one is it stays really good tasting even as it cools because I'm one of those people who like to sit with a cup of coffee for a good 45 minutes. The Starbucks, on the other hand, just generic roastiness to it. Like I don't really get much else. Like it's coffee, it tastes okay. But for me, the complex flavors you get in this is just amazing. In the case of a specialty roaster, they're typically trying to optimize the flavor potential of the green coffee that they sourced and was paid for. And typically, if you buy a higher quality green coffee, you want to optimize and retain the flavor characteristics of the origin, the process, and harvest quality of the coffee you got. And here's a good quote from modulating the flavor profile of coffee. I like to think of a coffee like a color. Let's say blue. You can only do so much to a coffee by manipulating a roast. You can turn that blue into a teal or a navy blue or even a purple, but it will never be orange. You will never make it better or substantially different than its potential, but you can make it worse than its potential, as we kind of saw. If you wanted orange, you should have sourced coffee that was red, yellow, or orange. And this is fairly theoretical, but this is why buying coffee based on light, medium, and dark roast is a complete oversimplification of coffee flavor that I would argue does not help you find coffee you'll love. For example, here are six different varieties of coffee. Four of those, most people would call a light roasted coffee bean. Two of them are on the medium roasted side. However, these beans all have a wide range of flavor notes, and if I was personally ranking them, one of the medium roasts is my favorite, and the other medium roast is on the bottom. And from a flavor perspective, some light roasts may even have flavor qualities that would also be present in a darker roasted coffee. Now, at this point, we could go very deep trying to explain all the different chemical differences between these various coffees and how they affect the elements of flavor from a taste, aroma, texture, sight, physical, or human element, but until we start listing terms like chlorogenic acids or aldehydes or melanoidins and all these various terms that make up coffee from a chemical perspective, it's not all that useful for the average consumer. However, if that does start to change, I will gladly make that video. So, instead of worrying about all that in this video, let's answer how do you find coffee beans you'll love? And if I was starting today to just get into coffee, here is the advice that I would give myself. First, you do not need to be able to describe coffee in words to know which one you like better in a side-by-side test. I'll leave additional reading about scoring and grading coffee from the SCA because depending on how you learn, I think it can be very helpful, especially if you do become a complete coffee nerd like I have and want to know everything there is to know about coffee. But, I can throw two cups of coffee down in front of anybody and they will be able to tell me which one they prefer. You don't need to know the specific aroma notes or the difference between harmony and balance to know which coffee you like better and this brings me to point number two. Go try two coffees side-by-side and here's how I'd pick them. I'd go to your local roaster and ask for two of the most different tasting coffees they have because if you go to the far ends of coffee flavor, you'll learn so much faster than starting with two coffees that are fairly similar. This is one of the benefits of buying at a specialty roaster because since they are buying a wide variety of green coffee, they'll have a wider variety of aromas and tasty notes in the coffees they offer. And one thing I will say, more coffee shops should start offering coffee flights or coffee tastings. Like, give us three, four ounce cups of coffee from a wide spectrum of flavors or you can always just go with a friend or family member and split the cup. Now, once you find a coffee bean you like, we run into another problem. Now, if you remember back to the beginning of this video, I said the two biggest mistakes that I made when I first got into coffee is that I was overly focused trying to perfect how I was brewing and not paying any attention to what beans I was actually buying. And secondly, I never tried coffees side by side. Well, there was one more third mistake that I made and that was when I found a coffee I really enjoyed, I didn't know how to find similar coffees I may also like. So now, it's time to go through the rest of the hierarchy and talk about processing, harvesting, and growing coffee. At its most basic, coffee processing is how we go from a harvested coffee cherry to the final dried out green coffee bean that is sold to the coffee roaster. And a coffee cherry is made up of several different layers. The outer skin, the pulp, the mucilidra pectin, the parchment, the silver skin, and lastly, is the green coffee bean inside. Of which, there are typically two, but if there is just one, this is referred to as a pea berry. So why is how the coffee process an important piece of information that you should consider when buying coffee beans? Well, sometimes, when coffee cherries are processed, the skin, pulp, and mucilage are removed right away. Other times, the whole cherry is left to dry before it is removed, or sometimes, the coffee beans are left to ferment. And as we have mentioned earlier, this causes the green coffee to have a slightly different chemical composition, which could make a really large difference, or just a small difference, in your final cup of coffee. Commodity coffees, or most mass market coffee beans like Dunkin' or Starbucks, will typically not specify what process was used on the bag, but if you are buying from a specialty roaster, these are some of the common terms that you should know because you'll see them on the bags of coffee available to buy. The two main processes are natural and washed. Then, there are variations on these two, which include the honey process, the anaerobic process, and co-fermented coffees. Decaf, I'll also include here. And in theory, if you started with the same coffee cherry and processed it in these several different ways, you would end up with several different tasting cups of coffee. For example, washed coffee beans are processed by removing the outer layers of the coffee cherry, where there are then washed with water and left to dry. Natural coffee beans are processed by drying the whole coffee cherry in the sun until they are dry and then removing the outer layers. So, how different do these actually taste? Well, it's tough to say unless I literally had the same exact coffee cherry batch that was processed in two different ways. But, people typically say that a natural process will promote more fruity and wild aromas in a coffee, while a washed coffee bean leads to a cleaner and brighter tasting cup. Now, the honey process is where the skin or pulp is removed, but the mucilage or pectin is left on the green coffee bean as it dries. And this pectin is sticky and sweet, which is why it is referred to as the honey process. Again, some say that these coffees will be more complex than a washed one, but not as fruity as a natural coffee. Now, keep in mind, processing is one piece of this puzzle, and you'll need to start trying different coffees in order to put that full puzzle together of what you like. For example, two areas that I'm definitely interested in exploring more are anaerobic and co-fermented coffees. The anaerobic process is kind of a variation of the natural or washed process, where the coffee beans go through an extended fermentation without air, and this leads to a whole range of new flavor. They are typically known for their complexity with notes of fruit, floral, and wine-like flavors, a lower acidity, and a smooth mouthfeel. Now, co-fermenting is a relatively new way to process coffee, which again, is a variation on the natural or washed process, and as you can guess, the coffee is fermented alongside other ingredients. You can kind of think about this in similar to creating different flavors in wine, beer, or kombucha, which have a variety of ingredients that will affect the final flavor of the beverage. Typically with coffee, this is a fruit, but there is a ton of experimentation being done here. Now, as you can imagine, we could do a whole video just going into deep dives with each of the various processing methods and trying to figure out all the slight differences in that green coffee that actually comes out, but here's where I want to leave us today. One process is not better or worse, right or wrong, and how a coffee is processed is really just a way for you to explore the flavor of coffee. For example, I really like anaerobic coffees and want to explore them more, but you may taste this and be like, that is so different from what I'm used to. I actually want to avoid these completely, and that's perfectly fine. And for me, I like to keep different bags of coffee on hand for different preparations. For example, I like more fruity and complex aromas in my hot coffees, so I'll typically use a natural or anaerobic coffee for those use cases. But for an iced coffee preparation, I like cocoa, nutty, or brown spice aromas, which a lot of times ends up being a washed coffee. And I'm going to leave a bunch of additional reading if you guys want to dive into it. But now, let's move on to harvesting, where I've always wondered, what is the difference between a single origin coffee and a blend, and is one better than the other? From a price perspective, coffee harvesting can contribute significantly to the price of the green processed coffee that is sent to the roaster, and it's typically done in three ways. Handpicking, strip picking, or machine harvesting. And as you can guess, handpicked coffee cherries are going to cost the most, but this kind of begs the question, in our advanced day and age, why is a significant amount of coffee picked by hand? And we'll touch on this in more detail in a second, but from a growing perspective, Arabica coffee trees are grown at higher altitudes where it can be tough for machines to get to. But we also run into another problem. Coffee cherries ripen at different stages. So, a mechanical harvest will have a mix of ripe and unripe coffee cherries that then need to be sorted, and this is why Hoffman notes, for high quality coffee, handpicking remains the most effective way of harvesting. And like almost all jobs, depending on where you are in the world, there will be price differences in the labor force. So, a coffee that is handpicked in Hawaii will generally cost more than a handpicked coffee in a smaller country with different wages, regardless of how it tastes. So, from a flavor perspective, why is harvesting important? And you can really think about it just like any other piece of fruit. An underripe banana is acidic and generally has green vegetable aromas. However, over time, the starches turn into sugar and a ripe banana becomes sweet. And it's a similar idea with a ripe coffee cherry. They will generally have increased sugar content in the green seeds and a more developed set of aromatic compounds that can be processed, roasted, and extracted into our hot water. And as noted in the World Atlas of Coffee, many experts see the harvest as the point at which the quality of coffee peaks and every stage thereafter is about preserving the quality rather than improving it. Now, from a buying perspective, you're not going to see handpicked coffee cherries written anywhere on the bag, but an important concept to know is single origin versus a coffee blend. Barista Hustle defines single origin as coffee beans that come from a single estate, group of estate, or a cooperative. And typically, the term single origin is used as a way to communicate that this is a consistent, high-quality coffee bean in this bag. Now, on the other hand, there are two ways that a coffee can be blended. First, two or more coffees are mixed together after roasting. And I could literally mix a single origin with another single origin, and I now have a coffee blend. And if you see a blend from your local roaster, this is likely what they are doing. They want to highlight the best flavor qualities of the two beans in the resulting cup of coffee. However, some roasters will also say that you should never make a blend, and I'll leave an article from Barista Hustle where you can learn why that may be. The second way coffee can be blended is that two or more green coffees are mixed together before roasting. And this is typically done for mass-market roasters like Starbucks, who literally buy 5% of the world's coffee and have an insane commercial demand. For example, their Pike Place Roast is a blend of Latin American coffees, so they likely purchase green coffee from a variety of Latin American countries and farms in those countries. They then blended all the green coffee bags together and roasted it all together. Now, one challenge of this is that even though they may have purchased the same exact variety of coffee, there are likely some small differences in the chemical composition of the green bean. So, in order to make that difference smaller, they likely need to roast the beans for a longer time and temperature to break that compound down into simpler flavors in order to homogenize it so the coffee doesn't end up tasting completely different. And this is why in my experience, a lot of this coffee is less complex. And if you are new to exploring specialty coffee beans, I would recommend trying your single origins first because it's just one less variable that you need to figure out. For example, if I have a blend with two washed coffees from two different countries that I really like, I then need to figure out does it taste good specifically because these two coffees were blended together or do I actually like the flavor of one of the beans more than the other? And you can really see how each piece of the hierarchy is important in creating the terms that we see on our bags of coffee. So lastly, let's talk about how coffee is grown. From a buying perspective, there are several important terms that you will likely see on a bag of coffee as it relates to how the coffee was grown. And first is the origin. This can be as broad as the country, but also more specific to the region in that country, or if it is a single origin, the specific farm, estate, or co-op may be listed. Second is the variety of coffee. Now, a lot of mass market roasters will just say it's 100% Arabica coffee beans. However, a lot of specialty roasters will be more specific. For example, Gesha, Java, and Typica are all varieties of the Arabica coffee bean. And I find it helpful to think of the different coffee tree varieties just like there are different apple tree varieties. Just how Granny Smith, Honeycrisp, or Gala apples all have slightly different flavors due to their chemical compositions, there's going to be different varieties of coffee that all have slightly different chemical compositions too. This, again, will react differently during the processing and roasting of the coffee bean. And lastly, a newer addition you may see on a specialty bag of roasted coffee is the altitude at which the coffee was growing. And typically, this is expressed as MASL or meters above sea level. And my first question when I started to learn about all this was, well, how different would the same coffee variety taste if it was grown in a different country and at a different altitude? And unfortunately, that's not really a simple answer because the world of coffee beans is constantly evolving and it would be so hard to control all the variables over the several year process it takes to grow coffee from seed to tree. So a better question that we can get an answer to is, how does a producer decide what variety of coffee to grow? And to answer that, let's look at the basic process of how coffee goes from seed to tree. So first, the coffee bean is germinated into a seedling which actually lifts the bean up from the ground instead of the shoot coming out of the bean and these things just kind of look cool. Those bean shoots will quickly open up into leaves and after 6 to 12 months they will mature into an established coffee plant where it can then be moved from the greenhouse or nursery to the coffee farm. Now an important distinction, when we say coffee farms these are not your rolling hills of other commodity crops like corn or wheat. Arabica coffee varieties tend to grow well at higher altitudes while Robusto varieties can grow at lower altitudes and this is important to remember as it relates to cost and flavor. Once that seedling is planted, the young tree might need another 3 years before it starts producing coffee cherries. And in general, coffee tree growing is a slow process that requires commitment from farmers. However, once planted, mature coffee trees last a long time as they can produce for 50 to 60 years and some farms may even have coffee trees that are over 100 years old. And like most orchards, once you've planted the trees, you've kind of committed to them being in the ground exactly where they stand. Coffee trees usually have one harvest per year where those flowers will bloom and because they are self-pollinating, they will always yield fruit in the form of that coffee cherry. Now, if you remember the vanilla video, this is much different than the vanilla plant which is notoriously difficult to pollinate and is one of the reasons why vanilla beans are so expensive. Now, despite fruiting consistently every year, coffee is still frustrating to harvest. The fruit might take the next 9 months of the year to mature and ripen, but as we learned in the harvesting section, the cherries will ripen at different rates which causes the producer to make a tough decision. Do we handpick the coffee cherries to ensure even ripeness or do we use a machine to pick them all at once with slightly different ripenesses? And the challenges of this farming process generally dictate what variety of coffee is decided to be planted. And specifically, the world of coffee research has a great PDF that breaks down a bunch of different Arabica varieties and a coffee farm really has a bunch of variables to figure out. This includes the yield potential of the coffee, the optimal altitude, the quality or cupping score of that roasted coffee and the plant's resistance to disease. This includes coffee leaf rust, nematode, and coffee berry disease. And as noted by Barista Hustle, some research has been shown that higher grown coffees tend to concentrate more of their nutrients into the seeds in these harsher growing environments such as high altitude farms. And this is why it's important to grow these Arabica varieties at these higher altitudes in addition to the more constant temperatures. Now, from a price perspective, just because today you can get a higher price for Gesha coffee, a farm has to balance that with the fact that it has a lower yield, it grows optimally at much higher altitudes, making it harder to farm, it is also more susceptible to nematode and coffee berry disease. And while Gesha coffee is sought after today, who knows what's going to be popular in 5, 10, or 15 years from now, so there are a lot of things that a farm has to weigh before they decide what variety of coffee to grow. Speaking of, remember how I said 87% of the coffee imported into the U.S. are Arabica varieties? Well, those numbers look a little different at the global scale. According to the International Coffee Organization's annual review, the estimated total production in coffee year 2021 and 22 was 167.2 million bags. And of total production, 93.97 million bags, or 56% were Arabica varieties, and the other 44% were Robusta varieties. So, you're probably wondering, what exactly is the difference between them and what are they used for? Again, according to the International Coffee Organization, Arabica trees are more difficult to cultivate due to their need for higher altitudes and specific climates. This makes them more costly to produce and is part of what adds the cost to the green coffee before it is shipped. However, even though they're more expensive, Arabica coffees are much more popular due to their superior flavor. And again, if you are buying whole beans in the U.S., they are almost assuredly going to be a variety of the Arabica coffee tree. So, what about Robusta coffee then? Well, in the U.S., Robusta coffee beans are commonly used for large commercial coffee products such as instant coffee blends or coffee-flavored products. And Robusta coffee trees are much easier to cultivate as they can grow and bear fruit at lower altitudes and higher temperature. They are also more resistant to disease, meaning that, on average, Robusta beans are just cheaper to produce. The beans themselves also have more caffeine on average, which could be seen as a positive if you're after some of that stimulation. However, when it comes to flavor, in general, most people say that Robusta bean varieties have a harsher, oilier, and more bitter taste compared to these Arabica varieties. And from a chemical level, this table from the Food Chemistry shows just how different Arabica and Robusta coffee beans are. Notable differences include the oligosaccharides such as sucrose, which is needed for caramelization, the chlorogenic acids, which provide that acidity, the lipids, and the amount of caffeine. Now, I was able to find one company offering whole Robusta beans, but this is very much the exception, at least in today's age. Most of the coffee that you're going to buy in the U.S. is Arabica varieties, and as a consumer, you may be wondering, like, should you know what different varieties taste like? And to that, I would say probably not. That being said, as you do explore more coffee beans, keep in mind it is a piece of the puzzle to consider when buying your beans. And we should now understand all of the components in terms that you may potentially see on a bag of coffee. So, let's wrap this video up. Okay, so if you remember all the way back to the beginning of this video, I had three promises. One, you will understand the flavor fundamentals of coffee. And for this, we went into how every green coffee has a unique chemical composition depending on how it was grown, how it was harvested, and how it was processed. And because of this, it will react differently during the roasting process with those five key reactions, leading us to the wide world of flavor in coffee. And remember, while there are countless ways to brew a cup of coffee, all we are doing when we make a cup is extracting those compounds from the roasted beans into our water. Promise number two, you will understand how the price of coffee changes. So for this, we learned that the roasting process is a marginal cost in the coffee beans that are available to us, and that the significant variable cost is actually the green coffee that was sourced by the roaster. And this cost is influenced by how it was processed, how it was harvested, and how it was grown. And my last promise was using this information, you will be able to explore and buy coffee beans you love. Each of these areas in the hierarchy explain the common terms that you will likely see on your coffee beans at a local roaster. For growing, it's the origin, variety, and altitude. For harvesting, it's single origin versus a blend. For processing, it's washed versus natural with variations including the honey process, anaerobic process, co-fermented coffees, or decaf. And lastly, for roasting, it's all about the aroma and flavor notes listed on the bag of coffee by the roaster. And lastly, learn from my mistakes. Focus on finding coffee beans you really enjoy before you try perfecting how to brew them. Secondly, try different coffees side by side. And lastly, if you understand the variables of roasting, processing, harvesting, growing, you can find similar coffee and explore coffee you love. The gesha is good, don't get me wrong, but at like $50 or $60 more than some of these other bags, definitely not worth it, at least in my opinion. Now, I don't know where the information in this video is going to lead you. For example, I'm personally interested in exploring kind of anaerobic and co-fermented coffees next, but a year from now, maybe I'll be exploring coffees in a very specific country. Who knows? So hopefully, the information sets you up for you to have a lifetime of exploring coffee beans. Lastly, I have a couple of carve-outs I do want to talk about to wrap up this video. I'm going to pull over a chair and sit down for this one. First is just thank you for watching these videos and letting me completely dive deep into all these kind of basic food products. It's really interesting and you never know what you'll end up learning when you dive into something that you use all the time, but you never really thought about it from a fundamental level. Secondly, I do want to thank AeroPress again for sponsoring this video. I delayed this video at least three or four weeks and I had to keep pushing the date back from them. And honestly, if I didn't have their support on this, I probably would have just pushed a coffee video out the door just to get it done. But since I did have their support, I was like, I want to make the coffee video that stands the test of time for the next several years. So hopefully we've done that. That link will be back down below. Really great way to brew coffee. Thirdly, I will leave the sources that I used in this video down in a comment below. And I would also recommend anyone who is in the coffee industry, leave us more things to read about. This video was deep but also shallow in some aspects too. You can never possibly learn everything there is to learn about coffee. Fourth, I do want to say thank you again to Medici in Austin for letting me film and also just letting me ask them a bunch of questions. It was super helpful to talk through that process and really figure out all this stuff and hopefully give it to you guys in a concise package. And then lastly, we have launched a second channel called Cook Well with Ethan Chabowski. There are two videos up on the channel already. These are kind of live, just cooking, laid back videos. It's kind of like a companion channel to this channel while we wait for the next deep dive. So if you want to check that out, I'll link that down below. But anyway, that will wrap it up for me in this one. I'm almost positive this is the longest video we've ever done on this channel, but I will catch you all in the next one. Peace, y'all.