John Deere and Frontier Disc Mowers (Hay Making)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Uy4dJY2sqys
Autos & Vehicles
 Music John Deere has taken the worry out of haymaking with five new models of disc mowers ranging from five to ten feet in cutting width. Stronger components and enhanced features mean you can cut with confidence and get more uptime. Even in the cleanest fields, you'll find old metal fence posts and other debris that can damage the cutter bar. That's why our new disc mowers come with great features to keep you running. The new breakaway feature absorbs the impact on the mower when the cutter bar impacts an object, reducing damage. In the event that you do impact the cutter bar, we've made servicing your machine easier with a new easy-to-remove quill. We've also designed new high-capacity bearings to increase the life of high-wear components, so you can cut with confidence under heavy crop conditions. And to make using these disc mowers even easier, we've added time-saving features that will take the pain out of making hay. For example, our new larger cylinder, coupled with a heavy-duty cutter bar, allows you to mow at steeper angles in uneven terrain, so you can cut more easily in fields, ditches, and terraces. With the new optional transport tilt cylinder, there is no need to leave the cab when entering transport mode, saving you valuable time in the field. And lastly, our new heavy-duty cutter bar reduces the need for oil changes, increasing your uptime, lowering the cost of your operation, and minimizing service done on the machine. With all these improvements, you can be sure our new lineup of disc mowers will be easier to use, faster to service, and stronger in the field. Stop by your local dealer and see how John Deere has taken the worry out of haymaking. You should also know about the new 50 Series disc mowers from Frontier, offering cutting widths ranging from 6' 6' to 9' 2'. You can adjust the float on the cutter bar by adjusting the float spring tension to match crop conditions. The DM5050 and 5060 are both Category 1 iMatch and Category 2 Quick Coupler compatible. The DM5070 is Category 2 Quick Coupler compatible. That means easy hooking and unhooking, so you can get started faster and move quickly to other jobs. These disc mowers are just three of the more than 600 Frontier implements and attachments that are available exclusively from your John Deere dealer. They're important for you when you do this okay. They are the best chances of 830. The DM5070 is the FUCK 2021 cousin, showing you the question as to the end. There's more information and frisk cápses in the world, from other places where you work as you, the fresh RNA sector can be done with ramen or more than 250 pro slash x4 x5 about 42 cardiclass. And for more information, you may be here at special things at Sure. The DM5070 is the best Besides, aВid daely Hospital for the change of cheering, it takes one choice,avin is the first step further in addition of your water. It's a 360-hour light. The ol' father is proxx like in this place. This willial is perfect for you for thisด with our actual success if you know thebl10s 최ñ. Maine 마es are pretty much enerxer.