2024 Summer Tractor and Farm Equipment Auction
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UzfaPj2-foI
People & Blogs
 Hey everybody welcome back to Trinity Dairy. Don't forget to like and share the video, leave a comment, subscribe if you haven't done so. You can also check out our merch store, we'll have a link in the description for that and you can follow us on Facebook and Instagram. Today is June 21st 2024. We're down here in Rock Creek Minnesota at the Heidelberger consignment, machinery sale, heavy equipment, they got all kinds of stuff here, lawnmowers, lumber, or if you need something it's probably a good chance it's here. The sale's not actually till tomorrow but I decided to come down the night before and go through some of the equipment get some video and then tomorrow we'll get the prices at the sale. It kind of breaks it up a little so I don't have to try to do everything all at the sale and I'll probably try to get a little bit of live video of the sale too. The last video we did went and got video of the equipment and then wrote the prices down. It seemed like people liked that a little better but we might try to do a little bit of both. So anyway we'll go up the main line here. I'm not going to do everything here because that'd be like a four hour video probably but we'll try to get some of the main stuff anyway. All right we'll start here we got an SC case. I'm guessing just kind of by looking at it that it's a non-runner probably needs a little bit of work but tin work and everything is real straight on it. Tires are a little rough. That old John Deere. Not sure what this is but this is definitely a needs a little TLC. Looks like an A. TLC. Farm all C. We got the exhaust and stuff covered on it. I would guess this one probably runs the way it looks. And a sticker that says deluxe. I'm not sure what that if that's a factory thing. I never heard of that but there's no battery in it. So I'm guessing it didn't run here but decent tires. Not super fancy but plenty of life left in them the way it looks. I'm gonna get a little Kubota here. This would be a good tractor for Jordan. A little loader on it. L 1500. Got a little Bobcat skid loader. Clark. I'm guessing this probably runs. Little Wisconsin in it I would say. Yep, Wisconsin. Belt drive. I don't know. I don't know much about them. Pretty clean though. Here we got an A. John Deere with some really nice. Really nice rubber on it. Tighten rear tires on it. I would say pretty much new. They still got the rubber little rubber nubbins on them there. Pretty straight old tractor. And we got a little must be an 8n Ford. Pretty clean looking little tractor. Had a paint job done on it. Tires are getting a little cracked but set up to add on the regular draw bar. Looks like they've done a little bit of welding to that there at one time but seems to be holding up okay. Turns over. That's kind of a nice little tractor. A little 384 International. A little diesel. I bet that's probably pretty fuel efficient. Looks like it might be a little bit tricky to get on. Kind of a kind of a congested uh part there in front of the seat but three point regular three point not fast hitch. TO 540. Decent tires on the back they're worn down pretty good but don't look real cracked up. Here we got an old Ford with a big uh big loader on it. I don't know what model this is. I'm thinking probably like an NAA or something. It doesn't say anything on the front badge. Just got some stars around the outside edge. Got the wheel weights on it. Good tires. Somebody put tires on it. Probably not too long ago. Three points been taken off. Got an old brilliant cedar here. It's just got one single large box on it. But um These things even if they're kind of rough shaped they seem to bring pretty good money. But I guess if it went if it went pretty cheap I would actually look at this for pulling behind my grain drill. So um we have the regular brilliant but I hate to beat that thing up just pulling behind the grain drill if you're not using it. 1475 gale brown baler. 1475 gale 706 gas. Cab on it. Fast hitch. 902 And they got a whole line of skid steers here S590 bobcat. So Looks like all of these got buckets, dirt buckets on them. Jobs are grouped just in front of them. It's actually my first-адdedports pressure. I want the porta 와 to you space it. So, let's go. So, let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. I'm not sure what's going on with the exhaust here because it just comes out here. Should be some kind of pipe to sling it underneath I would think. But otherwise it looks pretty clean, pretty straight, five speed. Looks like pretty good tires on it. And we got a 3000. Probably be a pretty handy little tractor. Gas. And we got a big Oliver here with a loader. I think it's an 880. Yep, 880 diesel. Use a little tire action there. And then we got a Case IH 685 front wheel assist. It actually looks like a pretty straight tractor. There. Rear rubber is getting down a little bit. The bucket. Case IH loader. Big bail spear. Front tires are good. Firestone. Dual PTO. Dual PTO. And we got a big sprayer here. It's a Summers. I don't really know anything about them. Looks like it must cover a pretty good swath. Double folding booms. Goes on the three point and it's got dolly wheels on it. Looks like it's in pretty nice shape. Couple of heavy duty flat hay racks. Lots of gravity boxes down here. Lots of gravity boxes and lots of thrower racks for small squares. Little New Holland baler. I don't know what model that is. Super 66. John Deere disc bind. 1360. Got the impellers in it. Seems like it's pretty tight. Pretty tight. Probably wouldn't be too bad of a machine. New Holland 355 grinder mixer. Kiwanee chisel plow. 870 case. The rack of weights on the front. Throwing Dung oop. Why do you think that's big in it? I think that's what you think normally is. Wow. Shuler feed wagon. It looks like it's in pretty decent shape. Let's look at the interior. It doesn't look too bad either. A little bit of old feed in the front there but I don't see any rust holes. Nice platform on here. Scale. Some more flat hay racks. I don't know if we need to get too much into them but quite a few of them here too. $4.99 New Holland Hydra Swing 8 bind. I don't look too bad. John Deere 450B Dozer. John Deere 450B Dozer. John Deere 450B Dozer. John Deere 450B Dozer. John Deere 450B Dozer. John Deere 450B Dozer. I've done some pushing with that wearing through. John Deere 450B Dozer. John Deere 450B Dozer. John Deere 450B Dozer. John Deere 450B Dozer. What a GSA lift it down. John Deere 87%. John Deere 450B Dozer's cockpit. 1475 gale. Don't know much about the gale balers. I think it's probably a 4x5 bale. There's another one. This is a 2480. Missing a belt. Here we got a... I figure it must be a white 12 roll corn planter. Liquid fertilizer. We'll be able to get a fertilizer. From what I've heard, those whites make a good planter. I've never used one. from what I've heard those whites make a good planter I've never used one well no were covered no no not well 336 a little bit faded it looks like maybe it's been painted with a different paint over the original but i don't think it's maybe well it's hard to say i don't know if it's seen a lot of hair if it's been painted over i guess it's probably been painted over a little but it's pretty straight rower on it 144 murder new holland we got a whole bunch of thrower racks here i guess i don't need to go through every one these first two easy trails here look like they're about new and the running gears they got under them are easy trail and they are wide they're just about as wide as the wagon bed so i bet you they're uh they're really stable i would i would have to say especially on like a side hill or something those are a nice shape this one probably could use some new wood this one's pretty clean looks like it's got a good floor this one uh use a little new floor probably here we got a big uh moco here 945 impeller in it so premier wr22 v rake i'm not sure why they have the top wheels off of it but i don't think there's anything wrong with it it's like they pulled them off something maybe for transporting or something so they weren't too high here's a john deere 328 got the shoot there looks like a pretty clean baler i'm wondering if they didn't have some hay baskets like i have why they maybe had to shoot off of it there's another h&s eight wheel rake this one looks pretty clean looks like it's got probably almost brand new uh brake wheels on it we got a big uh gale running gear looks pretty pretty straight tires are getting a little cracked but too bad i looked at this a little earlier i didn't really see any welding or anything except one spot here where they must have kinked the tie rod a few more thrower racks here look uh pretty decent pretty decent floors in them new holland is buying 412 looks like it may be a little bit of oil leak on the bar there another 166 merger here we get another john deere moco with an impeller kind of looks like they maybe tried to use that for a rock picker i don't think i'm gonna even bother trying to turn that one here's a big mcdon 5000 hydra swing hay bind the mower conditioner i guess they call them another big sprayer not quite as big as the other one this is trailer type atop air manufacturing atop air manufacturing a little vermeer baler a little vermeer baler 5400 i think this is the same as the one my dad has this has been a good baler for them here we got a 489 new holland hay bind i was kind of looking this over a little bit probably been sitting outside because it's pretty faded but it looks like it's been well oiled and well taken care of i looked underneath at the rollers and they're better shaped than mine it looks like all the rubber left on them a little bit of cracking in it but it's been cleaned out i turned everything in that wobble box seems to work that's the expensive part there i had to replace that on mine then luckily i found a used one but they wanted they wanted i can't remember what it was but it was like two or three times what the machine is worth for that rebuild you want to make sure that's good but i don't know i maybe be interested in something like this if it went if it went reasonable Justin's getting old enough we could run probably run two machines again got a bunch of new guards on it well we'll see what it brings maybe you come home with it and we got a big vermeer here this must make a five by five or five by six six oh five j i bet it's a five by six bail well there we go went through the main line i think i got everything there so i can come through in the morning and get you some prices on that stuff they've got like four rows of stuff some of it's a lot of vehicles and trailers so i can come through in the morning and get you some prices on that stuff there's another row of machinery over here i'll maybe try to get some live auction of that stuff tomorrow i didn't want to go get video of all that now because it's hard for me to follow both rings because they usually sell in two rings so anyway we'll wait till tomorrow and see if we can get a little more live auction video we'll wait till tomorrow and see if we can get a little more live auction video a passtix it's twenty five zero seven twenty eight twenty eight twenty twelve thirty twenty five sixty twenty or now 8, 38, now 9, now 4, 4, now 1, 41, now 2, 42, now 3, 42, now 3, 42, now 3, 42, now 3, 42, now 3, 42, now 3, 42, now 3, 42, now 3, yes or no? So it's right there, 4200. Uh, number, number? 171A. 171A. 171A, guys, looks like it's been right out working, guys, on a 489 New Holland, new guards on it. He's mad. Good headline, guys, 25, now 6, 8, 25, Ass, 6, 8, 26, now 6, 8, 25, now 6, 8, 25, now 6, 8, 25, now 6, 10, 25, now 6, 9, 25, now 6, 9, 25, now 6, 9, 25, now 6, 9, 25, now 5, 1, 2, now 1, 3, now 1, 3, now 1, 4, now 5, now 3, now 1, 4, now 4, now 2. 14, now 3, now 2, now 2, now 1, 3, now 4, now 3, now 1, 4, now 2. Good headline, guys, 3, now 1, 4, now 4. Hold A Thank You Buddy, Appreciate Ya Well the sales done I made a purchase I picked up another 489 hay bind there was a John Deere disk bind here that first one that sold I just about bid on that I probably should have because I think it was a pretty good deal but I checked this thing over pretty good last night when I was down here and it's a little weathered but it seems like a good machine the rollers got all the rubber on them yet and the gearboxes all seem tight I don't think it's got a lot of wear on it I was looking at the bushings here in the roller and the reel they look good so I think I did all right I got it for $1,500 and I think that was that was a good price I know the machines so that helps you kind of know what you're what you're getting when you've already got one so now we can run with two machines and or if one breaks down we can keep going so that's good I see there's a spot here I was worried that what happened there but I think all they did I think the hinges were froze up or something and they heated that up or maybe they bent it they put a couple new hinges on there but it looks like whoever had it was definitely not afraid of the grease gun because everything looks greased and well cleaned out and everything seemed to turn good seems pretty tight so and then I also picked up some silo pipe and a distributor which this is going to be for that silo up in the pasture and I guess all I really needed was this little distributor down here because the pipe that I have is just a straight gooseneck so it doesn't have a distributor so that's kind of all I needed but I think I'm going to replace my pipe too with this because that's got some plastic and some steel and I'd rather just have it all be steel pipe so now we're going to hook up and get headed home a friend of mine he bought a that big John Deere disc bind so we're getting that hooked up and we'll probably kind of follow each other home so we will check back once we get home well there we go we made it home with our payload we got when we got home Saturday afternoon it was raining pretty hard so I didn't take any video it's Monday Monday now I just parked it here and this is where it's been sitting since we got home but it went good we took our time I did not bring any spare tires with me because I didn't really plan on buying anything I had to pull but these tires held up all right there you can see they got some cracks in them but we took our time and they made it just fine they were full of air so stopped and checked it a couple times they didn't get hot or anything I was going to cut hay today I was going to hook it up and fire it up and go cut some hay but talking rain now again tonight possible severe thunderstorms so hopefully we don't get that but after that goes through maybe tomorrow depending on how much rain we get we will check all the gearboxes and everything over and get it hooked up and go do some cutting but that'll be for another video so I just want to thank everybody for watching hope you enjoy the video and we'll see you in the next one