Massive Hay Making Effort - 9 Balers Running
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v-SzNQ-h92I
People & Blogs
 Music Music Music Music Well, the last video I started out in the mower is performing really well, so let's try it again. But while I have you guys here, I would like to take a second to just thank everyone for their support. The likes, the comments, the interactions on our Facebook, on our YouTube, the individual messages, they really mean a lot. And I just want to say thank you guys, seriously, from the bottom of our heart. I know we had a gap in the winter. We didn't post many videos or really, frankly, any at all. But we're back at it. We're going to try to have weekly videos and we're going to try to share with you guys our 2025 season. We've got a lot of sweet things coming up. We have some double balers. We've got some mower demos. We have some new tedders. So let's get after it. It's going to be a great year, I think. Anyways, back to normal programming. We are here. We are mowing again today. It is Saturday, May 31st. We mowed about 135 acres yesterday in the rain. Today is a much drier day. The drier farm is, I don't know, maybe three, four miles that way. And so we are over at the wonderful home farm of the Novak family. And we are mowing some more Timothy alfalfa orchard grass mix. I'm taking nice wide swoops because the ground is, it's pretty dry. This is a nice tiled, super dry farm. But when you turn sharp with these self-propelled, it still scuffs a little bit on the end. So we're taking our time making nice wide turns. And I'm not skip passing yet because Jake and I just got done kind of opening up this field. And these are some of our first rounds, our first passes. So he's going to meet me shortly in a moment here. And we'll start running together and do our skip passing method. This is a really dry farm. It's producing a phenomenal crop. This is the second season with this crop. The second and third season, you get nice tonnage. Everything fills out. The crop is nice. Nothing's too old. You don't have weed pressure much yet if you've got a thick stand when you seed it. So that's kind of what we're looking at. We're looking at an absolutely beautiful crop of Timothy orchard alfalfa mix. I'll get out and I'll show you guys. The orchard is headed out, but the Timothy is just starting to shoot ahead out of the stem. So we're hitting that at like perfect maturity for anyone who wants some nice feed value and nice fiber combined. We have Saturday, Sunday, Monday, Tuesday. And then it sounds like there's rain coming in Wednesday night. We don't like to force ourselves to bale the day of rain coming in the afternoon. But we will take a risk and push all our resources into baling that Tuesday and not pick up much. And then pick up Wednesday. And we're a little bit more comfortable with that. We don't like to try to bale and pick up the day before storm. I mean, we will. We have to. That's not what we're going for. So I'm going to call my dad when we finish this first largest piece of this farm. See what the weather's looking like. See what we want to do if we want to keep mowing more. Or if we just want to call it quits here and that'll be good enough to get past these next rain showers. I would like to just keep mowing because it's fun and this is a beautiful crop. But you have to obviously have it in the back of your mind. Hey, we can mow a lot, but what can we get done? We got a lot of great people. I think we have 18 people lined up to get going this week. We have a couple new machines, a couple new tedders to get through. And another large skirt baler that we got to dial in. So those are all factors we have to consider when we are basically making our first big outing of the year. There's going to be a lot of attention needed for some of these new pieces of equipment. And it's not just to turn the key on and go. It is Monday, June 2nd. I am here with Stackmaster PJ. We mowed this Timothy Orchard alfalfa mix Friday pretty much all day in the rain. This is now the third tedding that they just finished. And we are here checking the windrow moisture. What do you think? A little bit of moisture. A little bit of moisture, yeah. We have a unanimous 24% gas. So what's the deal here? You got to pack it tight. So we're creasically, we're mimicking, yeah, the pressure of a bale somewhat. I don't think this thing is 100% accurate. So we thought, we've had fairly decent conditions, but we have the wildfire smoke from Canada that's kind of making a slight overcast. So it's super sunny, but you can actually almost look at the sun, which I don't recommend doing, but you can. There's a bit of a glaze over it. And we had some pretty good moisture when we mowed it, didn't we? Yes, we did. We mowed it pretty wet and it continued getting wet. I will not call it rained on hay. No. That's not how that works. It's got to be more than 14.5. Hey, we're ready, man. No way. 33. 33. Now that seems a little bit more realistic. Yeah, 33. 14 was better though, wasn't it? Yeah, 14 was a lot better. So it already does have some crunch. There is still stem moisture, which is the dangerous part of the ballgame here in these earlier cuttings. We're looking for the driest area, PJ says, and we'll start there. It's feeling pretty good. Yeah. So what he did is he went and grabbed, you know, it's not perfectly spread even. It's very heavy hay. So he grabbed underneath it, flipped it. Because we are trying to test. That's not good. Yeah, that's... For unevenness. So, I mean, it looks good. Yeah. And you find stuff like that and then you bail it and you're trying to dry it. Uh-huh. And you're just shaking your head because you can't understand why. Why? Everything else is bone dry and you're still probing 20. Yep. So the biggest thing is evenness. The dryers work great. We do need evenness. So this probably will need to be tatted one more time. Well, we got low humidity today. We do. We do have somewhat full... And it is only 11.20, so it hasn't even been drying all that long. And this did just get tatted. Was that on the bottom? That wet spot or... Uh-huh. Yeah. All right. What's that probing? 43? I don't know. Maybe the bucket had some moisture in it. No. We got some action with a new crone tatter. Big pot hammering down. That's... That's PJ's tractor. What is that? Yeah. 6220. 6220 is handling it. I don't know if you'll be able to tell on the camera, but we are still flipping over a little bit of green. But it really is laid it out. Really nice. So I know in the previous video I mentioned that this entire farm is mostly the same hay, and that's a little bit of a lie because there's 27 acres over here that is just Timothy orchard grass. So we are checking the Timothy orchard. And I don't know. It just seems to dry really well. You can ted it a lot more aggressively because you're not worried about losing alfalfa leaves. And this grass is... Yeah. Nice. All right. What's your guess on this? This does feel drier. This does feel drier. And also it mowed a little bit better. This wasn't leaned over like the alfalfa was, so I just think we got a better cut. And I think just the all-evenness of the field contributes to overall better drying conditions. 40. 40. I don't know. I mean, come on. 40. This is not silage. Is that other one? Yeah, I do. I got... We'll check it with the handy-dandy Delmhorst. I like these analog Delmhorst because you can check the moisture and pull it in and out. And it gives an instantaneous reading instead of just waiting for like a digital screen to calibrate. 20. That's... I'd probably agree with 20. This has potential to be baled a little bit here in four or five hours. And obviously dried. Well, today the start of the circus didn't get filmed enough. There was a lot of behind-the-scenes action that needed going on. Right, PJ? The circus. Yeah. I mean, really. Seriously. It's PJ's birthday, by the way. Every day will be better. It is. Happy birthday, PJ. So Mike Bigstack Johnson is heading out on his maiden voyage in the JCB. We have six balers going right now. We're waiting on the seventh. The seventh. The seventh is coming up. The rakes are hitting it. Three barons are rolling. We got a little disaster in the barn. We got to clean up off the dryer that someone did for me. Yep. I'm going to make... I'm going to get out of here. Yeah, see? We got that to clean up. The rake's going. We got to get some footage, then I'll help you clean up. Let's go see how the circus is performing. Yep. There you go. So we have some bales that were left over in the chamber. We thought we cleaned them all out. We gave a couple guys instructions to clean them out. Sometimes, you know, stuff gets lost in translation. So we had a couple of leftover nasty flakes from the last round, which didn't get dried because they were stuck in a baler. But that's all right. It's about 10 to 14 on the hand probe, but it's really like 22. 22. I'd say, yeah. Big stacks? I don't know. He's figuring it out. Check Brian. All right. Gary's hammering down. Doing good. Let's see if any weights have changed. Really should be filming more. What have you been doing? Running around troubleshooting. Yeah. We have to adjust the bale weights. Constantly. There needs to be like one person doing this all day. All day long. All day long. You don't feel like you're getting anything done, but you're really probably making a lot more happen than you think. Yeah. In 1842 S. He's going to be good. I know it. Jojo makes a good bale. Perfect. That's the same hose that blew in two outings on the Barron's. He's been running all winter. Yeah. Now we blew it. Oh, we can't keep all three running, man. No. And then a drone go by and then a frickin' soap. Then it gets sprayed. Oh, no. Back to the shop. I'm going to get that. Yeah. Can't fix that. We're in the field. In honor of PJ's birthday, everyone gets donuts. And Robbie's machine broke down, so Robbie's the donut runner. Hey, you know it's Justin's birthday. Really? Yes. Thanks, guys. Yep. Now things are running pretty smoothly. We have some acres down there. We've got to get the large squares running. We're holding off a little bit because it's a little more wet, so we're just kind of killing time at the moment. Which one did you pick? The one. Come on, Bass Pro. There we go. This is like the young kid box, and this is the old kid box. The balers have finished up with the orchard alfalfa pieces. They have moved on to the Timothy Orchard. There's no alfalfa over here. It is unbelievably beautiful. I spared a second to come over here. I readjusted their bale weights. Typically, alfalfa products are a tad heavier, so I came over here and I had to turn each of them up a couple of notches, but we're all set now. I got to them before they got too far along. So this is 27 acres. They'll burn through pretty fast. They have another about 30 back there we're going to do, and then they have 60 down the road. My buddy from high school should be here to do some drone footage. I can't quite get it up right now. He'll be here in a moment. We'll see the whole cavalry in action. I'm very excited. Things are going smooth. Check out the quality of this hay. This is something else. Nice purple orchard head. The Timothy is not even headed out yet. It's just beautiful and lush. And we'll look at the bales it's making. Bob Stone is hammering down. I hope this camera picks up color the way you do in person. I mean, it is just nice. There's old rank, right first cutting, and there's this. Wow. If I was a horse, I'm pretty sure I would. Telehandlers are getting it figured out. The other barons hammering down. We have one telehandler consolidating three bundles together. And then another telehandler who's being followed by the truckers that is loading up the three bundled bundles, so to speak. A little midday pick-me-up. Okay, so let's see how quickly he caught it. One, two, three, four, five. That's really not that bad. No, no. We missed quite a few. Oh, well. Let's see what we got here. So it looks like we're just not even tying. So we'll just re-thread this knot and we'll be good to go. This is Ellis. Ellis is the broken baler. There'll be one string on all those broken bales, so if you can grab the one string and then kind of straighten them back out so they'll be able to get ran over. And I'll get this baler fixed. It took you a few bales to catch it, but I've seen worse, so. I've seen it. I've seen guys do entire laps around the field. Ellis, you want to try to, like, kick them out so a machine can go over them in a fairly decent fashion. All right, this is not too difficult to do. I actually haven't re-threaded an 1842S yet. But what's nice about having two knotters is you can always look at the other one and see how they do it. So it looks like it comes from this little eyelet down there up through this. Looks like someone's square knot didn't tie. My dad was here. He would be having a meltdown. He doesn't like when people don't tie proper knots. I'm with him there. I don't like it either. So then you just take it through here and you can kind of just tie it off anywhere. So this is one of those deals. If you can't tie a knot, just tie a lot, right? I'm thinking that should be okay. Next thing to check is to make sure there's not any more tied the wrong way. That's a square. That's looped to that. We're okay there. Just a glitch in the matrix with all this. Here's a little trick of the trade. I'm going to go ahead and cut the bales that he has in the chamber. And that way, instead of us having to spread them out by hand, they will just kind of plop out flake by flake in the back. So these are the things you learn after a little bit of time in the industry. We had the crash course. I didn't see the beautiful tire, the beautiful baler tie again, but it is. That is a tied off bale, ladies and gentlemen. We have success. Oh, and it feels good. See how Carter is getting along, finishing up the Falfa Orchard Grass mix. And then the Timothy Orchard's right across the lane there. The kids are natural. Very nice. We've had no knotter issues or anything with the barrens. Just a couple hydraulic lines. So it's nothing you can really fix in the fields. So I guess if we call mailing and bundling third base, or like shortstop to third, we will follow the loaded trailers as they're rounding third and heading home. And home plate is the dryers and long-term storage. Or hopefully short-term, actually. Demand is pretty good right now. So Joe is handling it, taking nice wide turns. This is a pretty decent driveway. Looking both ways, like a pro. Missed the ditch, we're golden. Second wide turn. Gonna have to tell Jake he's got a little bit of overhang on this side. I'll just tease him, it doesn't look too bad. It's worth noting we are not strapping these loads. We are only road-bound for about 35 seconds. So it's a calculated risk that we're not strapping. So we had a temporary drawback, but we're following that same trailer to the dryer here. My dad got done raking. Him, Carl, Nick. We got Lewis, who's so happy people are back. Where are you at, Lou? There he is. You were so lonely in the air-conditioned office, weren't you, buddy? So I want to see Justin unloading some trailers. Carl's getting the seventh baler ready. JB's running. Must be hay time. You can't see Justin waiting. Lewis loves riding on the Kubota. So the system we got here, it looks like we're pulling up to the furthest north door. Justin's coming in and out. He's storing the wet hay right here. Hey, don't worry. I fixed a baler. I earned my keep today. What happened? It just missed a square knot or something, I guess. Just missed a knot. That was all you had to do with that. Well, I had to retie it. I had to restring it. So what are we probing? Pretty good, huh? Yeah, we got some 18s, but... There is an 18, so a little flash. So how's it going? What's going through your head? It's going through my head? Yeah. We're going to have a lot of hay. Got a lot of hay. Not a whole lot of room up here. Not really. We've got to find another wet spot. Yeah. We could get tarps in that corner and pile a bunch of wet there. Yeah, we got, what, then we got the grass coming next. Yeah. And we're going to go back to that. I'm not going to find a dry. Yeah. So is this the start of today right here? Yeah. Okay. What are we coming off the dryer at? Low. Yeah. And you're 10 minutes? 10 minutes. At 180 degrees? Yeah, we're like 190. 190? Chronicles of keeping balers running. We got wrapped up a little bit, so. One baron down, two balers down today. Now the same song and dance. We just tie it off again down here. We're good to go. Hands up. Yeah. So we missed a pretty big part of what I wanted to show on this video. I haven't shown much. It's a bit of a circus today. But we are large squaring about, what, 40 acres back here, dad? At the bottom. It's a new seeding. We had historically been putting like rye and teff in it. And nothing, well, the rye would be overwinter. But we didn't want to have an established seeding because it floods. We got kind of tired of putting teff in in the middle of the season when we're trying to do other things. So we put it into an established Timothy Orchard alfalfa seeding. Unfortunately, some of the rye from the previous spring came up. And it's a little bit lesser quality than we would typically like to put into bundles. So we got the large squares rolling back here. And they're done. I didn't even hardly get to film them. So we got Robbie and his brother Don hammering down. Let's go see what kind of damage they did. Decent little bit of hay out there. Let's check out a bale. We were worried about the rye content. Let's see what they look like in a bale. Sometimes what a standing field looks like is a little bit deceiving. It doesn't always match what shows up in the bale. And that might not make a lot of sense. But it's true. Sometimes you have certain weed pressures and stuff. And it just disappears. That looks pretty nice in a bale, really. A little bit bigger rye stem and the head. But it is surrounded by just beautiful grass. There's Robbie hammering down. Robbie does love it. There's some pretty good sized windrows. Where I double them on these. On these. PJ's got stuff moving over here, baby. What is wrong with that bundle? Good grief. The stack is starting. We're doing it. PJ really has his work cut out for him. I'm kind of thinking we need to get a second telehammer over here. Maybe pull one out of the field at some point. We're only doing 10 minute dryer accessions. Because, hey, it's barely dry. We're just flash drying it. So it's, you know, good to sell right away. You know, every 10 minutes you've got to deal with something there. You've got to load it, unload it. You've got to come out here. You've got to unload trucks coming out of the field. You've got to find a spot to put the wet hay. Stack the dry hay. A lot on one operator. I'm thinking we're trying to make a managerial decision here. And maybe pull one loader out of the field. We do have tomorrow to finish cleaning up. We're not stressed to get things on the roof right away. So that might be what we end up doing. We're out here and it's 5 o'clock. We are checking weights once again. It's been a really nice day. So you start bailing in the morning. It's a little bit wetter. And as the night stays, it surrounds you. The hay dries out. So naturally, you've got to adjust weights. Make sure you're keeping them in that range that your customers are happy with. So we're checking everyone out. Probably adding a little bit of pressure to the chambers. They have about 60 more acres left to go. Hopefully they should be done by 730. This form is very important so you keep your back straight and you lift with your legs. Good. We'll turn them up just a little bit. So here's what I unfortunately didn't get on footage for you. But my buddy Matt's here now. So we'll try to do a better job of the full picture. The large squares were down here. As you saw earlier with my dad. And Donnie has it almost entirely cleaned up and stacks of three. Now stacks of three is one unit of what we do. You stack them three high, two wide in the trailer. So this will help the cleanup when we eventually get you. We might not get to cleaning these up until tomorrow. But I want to show you guys some of the rye that's in these bales. And the reason we didn't small square them for horses. Oh, the stupid cereal rye that came in. And there's a lot of nice hay in it. But then you have large stems and rye heads. And I think it would just be better off going to a cattle producer. Trying to market it to a lower level horse quality customer. That can be a harder game than just sending it to a beef or dairy operation and being done with it. Notice how Don is a professional. He's not wandering all over the field to create stacks. He's finding an area, using efficient turning, and getting it done. He's taking it. I've already tried my uncle. He's taking it to permanent storage location. It'll last a year until it's sold. But I think we have most of this sold pretty quickly. So, it could be in here two weeks. It could be in here two months. But I would say probably two months max. That kind of locks it in then. Going the opposite direction. Beautiful. An artist at work. They're being careful not to disturb the kill deer up here. It's a bird that's laid eggs. They're under there somewhere. Well, we got everyone filled up. We're done at the main farm. The secondary home farm. And we traveled, I don't know, 10 minutes down the road. And the fleet is rolling in now. Fueled up. Ready to go. Flashers. This stuff feels really good and dry. Probably just going to dry the outside rounds and clean this up tomorrow. It is about 630. We're getting going. There's 48 acres or something like that. So, it won't take them too long. It is nice heavy hay though. The whole crew. This is the first time I've seen them all start up together. That's pretty cool. Usually we're staggering in. Half of them still have their flashes on. That's good. Well, we ran pretty late last night drying. But it was a very successful day. 180 acres. Almost all in the barn. We got to go clean up about 40 acres this morning. I think a good way to cap off this video is show a little bit of the cleanup. And then my dad is Johnny on the spot with our fertilizer and field maintenance program. So, we are here the day after. Not even 12 hours after we got done baling these fields. We have him filling up chemical. And dad, what's going on for what's going to be second cutting? How are we fertilizing after first? We're going to be putting 20 gallons of 32% on. Because we've got rains coming in tomorrow. So, hopefully it's going to put it in the ground. So, this 32% is liquid nitrogen. We're going to spray that on. Yeah. And then we're going to spread 500 pounds of P and K this morning also. Okay. On all the ground. And that's one day after baled. Yeah. None of this fertilizer requires too much regrowth for effectiveness? No. And then the first stuff that we did, we got enough regrowth on that. And we're going to go back on that today with radiate and boron fungicide also. Got it. Are we going to do insecticide or are we going to wait to see pressure? I'll probably put some insecticide in there just because it's so cheap. Yeah. So, here we are. We're just going to take four of these tenders or something today. So, we'll have someone running these to Robbie who's spraying. I'll join Justin, Jake, Joe, Mason, and Nick. I got everyone's name. And the cleanup crew today. I'll finish up drying. The last field they bailed, which was the cool drone footage where we had the six baler on the outside rounds and one in the middle. That was obviously the last of the day. I think that was plenty dry. I'm going to go probe that. Make sure we don't need to flash dry it or anything. Maybe just the outside rounds around the fence line or the tree lines just to be safe. And we'll probably bring that stuff back to the home farm, not the spencer barn. Because we would like to keep that spencer barn open for stuff that we are specifically going to dry. That's just kind of the plan as of this morning. A couple more shots and finish off this video. I did plan to film a little bit of the fertilizing for you guys. But my dad went to plant beans and took off with the camera bag. So I don't have the chance to drone Justin out there with the 8S305 and the Ag Forest Fertilizer Spreader. He has spread the entire farm here. And he's heading down to the other 40 some acres that we did last night after the guys get it cleaned up. That is what we are unloading right now. So we are going to probably flash dry this as well. I'm just kind of putting it in a short term storage location. I'm getting through some of the large squares that absolutely need drying. And we'll monitor this batch, you know, tonight and tomorrow morning and see if the moisture is rising at all. And we will decide whether or not we need to dry it. But for now I'm stacking it here. What a dirty window. Wow, quite a bit of hay behind me. Let's check that out. Stacks are looking pretty good. What we have here is the last of the Peter Timothy Orchard on the dryer. It was fairly dry. It was still sweating up to about 19%, which probably would have been okay. But we have a lot of these shipments bound for Florida in the next 10 days. So we're drying it just to make sure there's absolutely no problems. It's good to go for that humidity. I will say the one thing with bundles, it's not very fun just making a pile, a standalone pile. You got to stagger them and they want to tip over. We had a pile that was sitting here that was waiting to get dry. It tipped over last night that Justin fixed. So I'm trying to do a little bit better stair stepping and pyramiding up as we go. We're able to get 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 high where we have the supports. And then once we stack the center, which we haven't done yet, I'm thinking we're going to be able to go 7 high, which is really high. I'm no crane operator. That might be a little deceiving. That might be a little discomforting is the right word.