Did We Just Destroy Our Grain Bin?!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V-yivyJ6HSc
People & Blogs
 Good morning Anna. Good morning Didge. Would you like a Ranger ride? No, you don't have to circle it first. Get in there. There you go. Gun case in your way. There you go. I gotta get some stuff in the mailbox anyway so you two get a ride. Didge, it's alright. Remember you like it in here. It's fine Didge. It's alright. See Anna doesn't mind. Look at her glow in the sun. We've got some trucks to dump here right away. I'll test the moisture on them. Make sure they're good. They're still full from last night. For real Didge, Didge. You get in here willingly. You enjoy the ride. Just settle down. Take a breath. Anna stop licking people. We did get into some wetter beans last night again. You remember when we started. We started on some pretty green stuff or had green beans in it. Well things have been drying up a lot so we've just been moving. We don't have that much left for beans realistically. Probably hopefully two days if things go well. But some of what we have left has some of those little green ones in there. Now they've sat in the truck overnight and they end up the green ones lose moisture and the other ones take it on. Which is fine because the rest of these beans are down to eight or nine percent moisture. The other ones are up that 15, 16. while they blend each other off. In the bin we end up with beans that are just fine. Morning. Morning. How you doing? Good. Have you climbed up that bin lately to see how full it is? No. But I did know that would be the first thing you would ask. Okay. Well I need to do my morning check of how full this bin is so I'll call in my stunt double to climb up there for me. Hey stunt double! A little over two rings left. Or I mean Zach there's a little over two rings left. You want out now? Ready? Alright. Holy cow what a morning so far. I don't remember where I was last time I turned the camera on but it's been a couple hours and a lot of people and a lot of movement. Dad and Jim are gone. Onyx is somewhere. Luke was here and fired the dryer. We do not have any corn going through it yet. No grain going through it. He was here and fired things up. And we got an issue with the distributor at the top of the lake. So I'm going to have to climb up there at some point and open the inspection hole and find out what's going on. But for now we're just going to basically have soybeans trickling around and making messes. So there's either a brush wore out or missing or a hole in the neck inside the distributor. I don't know what. We're busy all the time but when we get busy days during harvest in particular it's hard to eat right. I don't really take the time to prepare meals the way I never do anyway. So instead of grabbing gas station food I eat factor meals. They're fresh, delicious, nutritious, chef prepared and delivered here right to our door. In just a couple of minutes I can prepare this meal right here which today is mushroom, chicken thighs and wild rice. They've got 35 different options so you're going to find something that you like including Gourmet Plus, Calorie Smart, Vegan, Veggie. They've got a lot of different options. Even Keto stuff so you're going to find something that works for you. Factor works particularly well for me especially this time of year when I really can't afford to slow down or quit moving. I'm usually a little bit short of sleep so preparing meals is even farther down on my list of priorities than normal. Which is a long ways down. Head over to factor75.com or you can just use the link below and use the code FARMER50 to get 50% off of your first factor box and 20% off your entire next month of orders. Go try them out. You'll like them. I promise. And on top of that I had a whole bunch of paperwork and checks to write for closing out the loan and the invoices on that dryer. So that all has to be done by a certain date and there was a lot of people to contact and checks to put in the mailbox. It's like now that the project is done everybody wants to get paid. Does it always have to be about money with everybody? I'm going to the field Donna. I'll see you later. Okay, another day. Seems extra busy this morning. Better not. The other one too. This side? Short one? Yep, that's the short one. I'm going to go get you a new boat for this one because I ended up. Okay. You got one yesterday. That's the first sickle section I broke on this header in three, four days. Oh, and then it quits. Those are 17 then? No, that's another. Okay. Or, you might need to be pressing. We used that. That's what I used to fix the first ones because I had all the run tools. Okay. Oil's good. Fuel's good. Header's good. We just got to take it off now. And these G5 monitors are really sweet. Big upgrade. If you're used to the G4s, these won't confuse you at all. They're very similar but much larger display. They're just nicer to look at. Easier to find stuff. Let's see. I'm already folded. I don't really need to do anything on there. And it's especially nice that they can add that to the existing machines. Like this machine didn't have the G5. That tractor didn't have the G5. The 9870 didn't have the G5. So those are all upgrades that our dealer was able to throw in for us. And now we're all unhooked. So we'll put the header on a cart and move up the road. And our agronomist has already been out here this morning and soil sampled all of this. So we'll have new samples. We like to update those every three to five years. Dad and Onyx have already gone up the road to the next field. Jim's going to grab a semi and I'll follow him. Alright. Jim and Onyx and I will head up the road now and go get the other semi. And the other header. And the grain cart. Bye sweetie. Have a good day in the grain cart. Bye bye. See if a millennial can do this in a pickup without a backup camera. Ha! Did it! Look at Jim just standing there like some sort of outlaw. Hi, is it important you need help to get that header going or you got enough guys? You don't need to question my ability to hook up a header. I'll be fine. It's easier to unhook it than it is to get it hooked up. It's starting to get warm out here now. Yeah I know the magnetic system is going to be pretty big. That time of year where it's 40 degrees in the morning and 80 degrees by noon. Alright, here we go. Here we go. Back up. Locked and loaded. That was a long busy morning. We finally got two machines going in the field. And it is 12.02. So, morning's over. 5 to 4, you want me to cut down the same swath or go break a different spot? Yeah I think you can go ahead and start working there. I'll work on the end rows for a little bit. Engaging separator. Engaging header? Header? Increasing RPM. Slowing the reel speed. Engaging header height. And auto steer. Here we go. We got a lot of spots like this through this field also. Just like the last one. It's unfortunate but we're going to grind them through. And yes, that's a drone right there. Just checking out what I'm doing. He's just eating his lunch. Here's some decent beans. I'll hold the camera like this so you don't see that area over there. So, here's all my combine settings. My yield map. Current bushels to the acre. Current moisture percentage. Bushels per hour going through the machine. Acres per hour being covered. Gallons per hour of diesel. Different settings. More settings. For the chaffer. Not the chaffer. Spreader. Chopper. Coming out the back. And all kinds of stuff. We've got the field name. We've got the variety. We've got the header settings. I need to rock that forward a little bit. Plus all kinds of averages and numbers and load averages and weights and things like that down on this screen. So, a lot of information to look at if you want to use it all. Tank sample looks pretty good to me. Every year I get a lot of questions about our 30 inch beans. Why do we plant our rows so far apart instead of, you know, planting them with a drill or at least planting them in 15 or 20 inch rows? Couple of reasons for that. Number one, because we only need one planter to do it this way. We can plant our corn and our soybeans with the same machine. So, we don't need a second planter. So, that's the big reason. But the other reason is because up here with our heavy soils and our cold climates, we struggle sometimes with a thing called white mold. When the plants can't dry out very well, they'll start to get a mold on them or like a fungus that grows on them. And then that always happens in the best spots. So, where the plants are the biggest and the bushiest and they should be 60 to 70 bushel soybeans, sometimes that mold will kick in in the hot days of summer and you end up getting 20 bushel soybeans in those spots. There's still a lot of plant material, but there's just not much for soybeans on it. The ones that are our little teeny tiny BBs. So, keeping the rows wider helps air to get down between the rows and dry the plants out some helps with white mold. For the southern audience, that's the same thing as white mold. Same thing. Sorry about that. What are you calling from? I'm from Eastern Douglas County, Alexandria, Minnesota. Right. What's happening in the Alexandria area today? Well, I was out there comb mining yesterday and they look a little green, but they were 9%. So, that's almost too dry, but what do you do? So, are you comb mining today? I'm thinking about it. I've been doing some other stuff, but... We have time for thanks for joining us on the Linder Farm Network. December Soybean Meal 340-40 down 710. Alright. I gotta stretch the legs. Ahh. That happens when I get out of the seat before things are done turning. We've gotten some acres covered. Dad and his machine actually went over yonder there about like three quarters of a mile over in this area. And I had to just stand up and move or else I was going to be stuck there. So, I figured I'd check and see what kind of job the machine's doing. It's gotten pretty warm out here. I want to show you guys our newest shirt here anyway. You know, this harvest really gives me the ability to see what can be unburdened by what has been. Get it? Some of you will get it. That's the tractor stuck in the mud. That's the unburdened by what... It's funny. You can get it at the link down below at Farm Focused in our merch store if you want or don't. Do your thing. Here's the last bit in this field. We will probably move up the road tonight. Yeah, 20,000. What would you like to do? We will probably move up the road tonight and go to the next field. More than likely. Sorry about that again. I hope you guys will see what can be unburdened by the sneeze that has been. I love the look of a freshly harvested soybean field. Looks nice and smooth. Although it's not. It's quite prickly. Hello. Onyx is going to be driving the grain cart home on his own. So he should be home in about 10-15 minutes. So you shouldn't need to come get him. Okay, sounds good. Alright, bye. Bye, bye. Onyx has got to head home for hockey practice so actually the timing worked out pretty well because he'll be home at a perfect time. But then we'll lose our grain cart guy. Rear cart piece thingy. Merjager is on. Front piece is on. Drive shafts, air system, lock pins, hydraulics. All unhooked. Now, if I can do this without breaking anything, it would be fantastic. Look at that. I think I might have done it. Piece of cake. Pizza cake. Sounds delicious. I'm going to go grab the semi truck that's full. Sounds like there may potentially be an issue at the bin site. With the conveyor and or possibly a plugged leg. So we'll see what we got when I get there. I hope we don't have to pull the gates on the bottom of the leg and shovel the leg out. But, whatever, we'll see. Or the Dutch. That's an Austin Powers reference. At least a dozen of you should have gotten that. Well, we don't know what we got but I haven't been up the bin. I can't believe that one's full. You know, if that one filled up it could plug up the conveyor but I don't think it would fill up into the roof without coming out where the roof meets the side walls. Wouldn't it bring it back to this front bin too? Or the conveyor would get too full? Or maybe it would get too full. Maybe it would get too full because the leg would keep dumping in there. Right. We opened this bin and got the down spot going. And the breaker was stripped down in the overhead and now you start at this front in the front bin. out where the roof meets the side walls. Wouldn't it bring it back to this front bin, too? Or the conveyor would maybe get too full first. It'd get too full because the leg would keep dumping in there. Right. We opened this bin and got the downspout going, and the breaker was tripped down in the overhead, and now you start it and it rattles. I'm kind of... You think that chain is off? Well, I'm thinking it's driven from the other end. Yeah. Oh, but the chain could be off inside there. Or something could have fallen out of the distributor because the distributor started leaking that little bit last night. Sure. And falling in there, and the paddle's going by. I'll start it up, and you can hear it. I won't let it run long, but... When I started it full before, when we fed it too fast, ran both pits, it would really shake when it got down because it was full beams just between the two bins. Yeah. I don't know if there's an inspection hatch up there, if I need some wrenches. I mean, I'll climb that bin and look and see if I can see anything down in there, but I'm guessing I'm going to need some wrenches to open something up. Well, what can you see? I opened the slide into this bin, so the downspout's empty. So it should be empty. I could see if the chain was off on the paddles. Yeah. And I don't know if that's a thing that happens or not, but... I don't know either. Or maybe you could see if something had fallen in there. Right. I'm going to grab some random tools here and put some gear wrenches in my pocket and climb up there. And I don't know... I don't remember what the hatch is or how to open it, so I'll find out. I'm guessing it's not metric. So we're going to go down here and grab those. And probably those. And that's about it. That one was a Forrest Gump reference. Come on. I know. Some of you guys are young and you haven't seen Austin Powers or Forrest Gump, but work with me here. Come on. I leave you alone for one minute. I think the roof's down on there so it doesn't make out of the roof. Like if you crawl up over past the corner and tap on the actual roof, it's full? Yeah. Yeah, you do. It sounded like it. I only got a flood. I didn't trust myself to get out of that. Okay. Why did the air get out of there when you got air going in there? There's vents that go up. So we need just the leg and then that south conveyor right there? Yeah. Yeah. So we are going to run. We're actually going to run some beans out of that bin because Dad climbed up there. We knew it was getting full. We knew it was up there, but apparently it ran all the way up into the roof. So we're actually wondering if it went all the way to the peak because usually you get to the roof and you stop and there's room between the peak and the grain. And we're wondering if it went all the way to the peak and up into that conveyor and just had nowhere to go. So now we've got this bin open. So we're actually running beans out of here, up here, into here, and dropping them into the bin right next to it. And we're hoping or wondering if it'll open up enough room so that that conveyor can run itself empty if it's full. Or at least it'll take the peak off because we don't want those beans peaked up in that roof forever. Look up at that roof. You can see it's bulged. Yeah, we've never done that before. Don't really want to do that at all. Keep it running for a bit. The roof is bulging. Yeah, you can see it humped. Yeah. You can just see it. It's like it's got a crown to it in the middle. I would hope nothing would kink there, but we definitely need to take some pressure off of it. Like I say, we knew that bin was getting full, but we thought we had a little more room than that. But apparently we didn't. I'm going to climb halfway up this ladder and see what that roof looks like. I think it's fine. I don't think there's any damage, but at a certain point you can just see a little bit of like crowning right through there. So whatever's going on was definitely caused by that bin getting full and filling all the way up to that conveyor and that conveyor not having anywhere to send the beams. So it's a good thing Jim was here and had his ears on because he heard the leg start to back leg, meaning it's full on one side and it's going over into the other. So both sides of the legs were going to fill up, which is going to be a bad thing. So he shut the pits down immediately and prevented anything else from happening. You get a lot different perspective when you start climbing the ladders. Well, hopefully this all works out and we can see what can be unburdened by what has been. I'll watch this third one and see if anything comes in there when you start it. So we finished transferring. We finished transferring and we've got all three of these bins open, hoping the conveyor will fire. Yeah, go ahead. Yeah, there's definitely some that comes in here. It's not like, you know, it's not piling in like it's coming out of an auger, but there's definitely beans coming in. Can I do it two or three more times and see what happens? Yeah. I don't think we want it on the throttle on, do we? Well, we want it to open up. It's a fair amount. Yeah, there's definitely some coming in here. So I'm down on the other end here. Now, this is the end it's actually driven from. That's the motor up there. It's going to fire it. You ready, Zach? Yep. Yep. It sounds fine on that end now. Yeah. It really shook when you started it up on this end and then it was like it cleared out and it sounds okay. We think we got the conveyor fixed. So dad brought me out to the field to get the last, last, the last truck. He's going home. Jim's already headed home. We're calling it a day. Jeez. Jim, how do you get your legs in here with the seat this far forward? That conveyor took some time, so we're just going to call it a night. But I don't know if we'll finish tomorrow now or not because of the time that took and quitting a little bit early. But the weather's nice. We're not that pushed right now, so I guess it is what it is. I say that now and then in a couple of weeks it'll turn cold and muddy and I'll wish that we had pushed a lot harder earlier than in the season. Find out, I guess. Well, that's it. I'm done for the night. Thanks for watching. Be sure to check out our merch store where you can get this cool shirt or you get this cool shirt or you can even get this one with the square body Chevy on it. Don't be a square. Drive one. I don't know. I like them. Maybe you don't. You don't have to. Anyway, thanks for watching. Bye.