7 Israeli Agriculture Technologies
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v1DT4yvxpMw
People & Blogs
 So agriculture has been around for what 12,000 years? But did you know that today there are robots that can pick fruit and sensors that know what a plant wants and when? Here are seven Israeli technologies that are making farming more efficient and more sustainable. Nitzaphim is famous for inventing drip irrigation, a system which drips water directly into plant roots. It significantly reduces water and increases crop yields. Today they offer sustainable turnkey projects that include high-tech greenhouses and advanced control and monitoring open platform. This open platform wraps up 50 years of experience, put it up in the cloud, use this big data in order to serve every farmer worldwide. Israel recycles over 86% of its wastewater, by far the highest in the world. The Shaftan treatment plant takes raw sewage, filters it, filters it again with microorganisms, and cleans it until it is safe to drink. Tyrannus is an intelligence platform that uses satellite imagery, aerial footage, big data, and predictive analytics to monitor fields and help farmers make the best decisions. We can image a field in a really, really high resolution, about 0.1 mm per pixel. That means that we can see a tiny insect on a leaf, and then we can train a computer to analyze it, and find these insects or weeds or disease, and give the farmer a report, and then he can spray according to this report just where in his field we can find the weeds. He can apply spraying just there. BioB uses predatory wasps to control insects as a biopesticide, and thereby reduces the need for chemical pesticides by up to 70%. Groundwork BioAg uses tiny microscopic fungi to help plant roots absorb more nutrients. This increases crop yield with less fertilizer. So the fungus penetrates the plant root. It effectively extends that root in an underground web. The fungus can break down nutrients that are otherwise unavailable to the plant and physically mobilize them into the plant. FF Robotics makes robots with computer vision that can actually pick fruit straight off the trees. FF Robotics uses big data and sensors to talk with plants to know exactly what nutrients they need and when they need to be watered. With more people on the planet, we need to grow more food with less water and smarter, cleaner processes. This is the next agriculture revolution right here in Israel. FF Robotics