Workmaster 25  I welded a quick attach plow first time out.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1kPFqp8TWI
Autos & Vehicles
 Hey guys, Little Project today is I got to get this plow set up because I got to go plow the barbecue parking lot out. Anyway, I bought one of those weld-on plates for a quick hitch and I welded it onto a plow blade I had bought at an auction and this is it right here. There's the workmaster and here's the plow I set up. It's welded there, welded down there. I use a piece of box steel so I got to put the angle cylinders on. That's my next thing. All right, we're getting parts. All right, I got pins. I hope these pins work. All right, so I got the thing hooked up. Now I'm going to try to do a little plowing. I finally got it pinned in. I had to go bang into that snow bank over there to get it so the pins would work. So let's go do a little plowing. I think I got angle now. Woo, look at that. Uh-oh. It went all the way that way. Now it's not going back. Oh, I got to switch to the other handle. In case I want to put like a rotary mower on, it has to dump all the way back to the sump on the tractor. I don't know why that thing won't go in there. All right, guys, I got pressure on it. Well, best way to do that is to turn the tractor off. Turn the tractor off. Cycle this. Hopefully I'll drop the pressure down. And I can get this to plug in. Yep, there we go. That works every time. Well, I got my hands oiled up. That New Holland hydraulic oil is good for my complexion. Okay, back out. See what happens. I went one way and it didn't go the other. I got my hands oiled up. Well, that don't make any sense. Maybe it's not what I thought it was. Is it stuck? Always something. Let's go bang into a snow pile. Now, let's see what it does. Let's see what it does. Seems like I got out of work. Well, let's go plowing. Oh, that works. Wow. I wonder why it doesn't float more. Wow. Actually works pretty good. I'm gonna go over and plow the parking lot. All right, I'm going to go over to the parking lot, see how that works. Woo-hoo! I don't know, I got to get used to this thing. I don't know why float doesn't work so well. I got to keep dumping, I got to keep picking the bucket up. Wow. That was the best push so far. This stuff's got to freeze up, Sal, it's a rock. Oh, the winds are blowing. Might want to put gloves on. Yeah, the wind's thawing, it's got to be 30 mile an hour winds. That's awesome. Yeah... Yeah, I wanted to return. Yeah... chef in form do for the easy for dari Oh, gotta get my battery charging. Well, let's get back on the tractor and see what's going on. I hope this mic's working. I don't know if it is or not. I think I kind of like this thing. It seems to be working okay. Okay. Well, there's a little icky out today. Woo-hoo. All right. Let's see if we can get this plowed out nice. Let's see if we can get this. Let's see if we can get this. Let's see if we can get this. I can pick it up and just shove stuff way back. That again, give that another sweep. I think we're going to get more snow. I'm going to have to plow again before we open on Thursday. We'll see what happens. Let's see what happens. Let's see if we can get this. Ah, scraped up a little grass. Nothing too bad. It would be really nice if the sun came out and melted this stuff. Almost kept hitting the wrong lever. All right. We're going to get close to the building. Okay. What I like about this Workmaster, I got the forward reverse shuttle and a regular standard shift. Everybody wants hydrostatic. Hydrostatic sucks down more power. And honestly, this reverse shuttle is the shift on the fly, back and forth. You can almost, if you're not going too fast, you can shift it without clutching. I don't know how they work it, but it works. All righty. Where am I going now? Yeah, I got to finish this out. dinero hopes, sir. All righty. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good enough anyway. Yeah, the only weird thing is, depending on where the angle is, I gotta roll the bucket back or forth. Thank you. I gotta be careful getting in the barn. I don't want to crash into anything. Tight squeeze. All right. And we're back. Let's see if our welds held up. I think they did. Nothing seems broke, but I'm gonna have to do something with these hoses. This one's drooping way down there. I don't know. I don't know. I'm gonna get it like this. I'm probably just gonna... I'm probably just gonna attach them there or something. I don't know. But looks like I got them plenty long enough. All right. Well, that looks like about a wrap for right now. So just a little video. Doing some plowing. If you like my videos, like and subscribe and share. That'd be great. Trying to build up a little channel here. So go ahead and hit that subscribe button. And that's always good for the algorithm. It's so mysterious and algorithmic.