Unknown Title
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V2Me5YtMWgo
Unknown Category
 Introducing Cheyenne's new 74-inch compact tractor snowblower, providing even more height at 27 inches high. With the industry's first concentric access design and other standard features, the 600 CT puts the snow where you want it. For more information on the Cheyenne compact tractor snowblower, visit CheyenneMFG.com. They're a good team. They share responsibility. They both understand, which is so important, our culture and what's important to Ryan and I, how we want them to represent our company. And they both do just an outstanding job out of it. They really look at this like, I feel, they look at this like their own and they take pride in what they do, which is kind of hard to find sometimes. You know, putting the customer first. That, it is simple stuff when you really think about it. People walk in the door, you make them feel welcome and you acknowledge them and you try and help them. It seems like something everybody should know how to do, but we've all probably been in businesses where that does not happen. And I guess that's one thing we preach to everybody is, it doesn't happen here. I don't want that to happen here. I'm sure it does from time to time. However, you know, it's crucial to us that people feel welcomed when they're in here and they feel like they're getting helped and that they're appreciated at the end of the day for their business as well. You know, that taking pride of the facilities you work at. You know, I think you could see when you came in here. Brian or I didn't do this. You know, they take pride in making sure the lot's organized, picked up, cleaned. A good representation of product is out there. Same with the showroom floor. I don't have to ask Jenny to get this showroom floor stocked with equipment. She knows she needs to have it stocked. Stuff isn't dirt. I mean, stuff isn't dirty, you know, and things are picked up and presentable. All that stuff's very important to us that, you know, they're presenting our business. You know.