a farmer's life philosophy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Va1IGzwGmFs
People & Blogs
 So, to me, life is do or die, and then you're living. Well, I usually get up around between 5 and 5.30, and I make some breakfast, and I might do some paperwork if I have to. And then I go down to my fields. First of all, in the wintertime, I go and feed my cattle and my horses, and then I'll start my day working, you know, plowing or cultivating or weeding or, you know, finding my crew and getting them together to go out on the field. My days are usually pretty long. I rarely get home here before, at this time of year, before about 8.30 or so. A friend of mine is a woodworking shop, and I'll go and do some work there, or I'll work on some machine that I need repairing. And sometimes I'll come home to my own hand tool workshop and build some usually practical stuff to do with my horses and my horse equipment. I'm from Ireland. I was born in the west of Ireland. I've lived here since 1979. I found this place by accident and decided to camp here with my girlfriend in 1979. She was a mountaineer, and we made our temporary camp here, and here, 30 years later, she'll hear. You know, my daughter was two and a half years old. I'd brought her up here because I wanted, because my girlfriend at the time, she, we were, both of us were homeless, eh? And I was wondering where we were going to spend the winter. And there was an old man in Johnson's Landing. He wanted me to get him some poles for his chicken house to build, and he knew there was nice straight cedar poles up here. So I'd take Amber up here, so I'd take Amber up here, and we'd get some poles. But in the process, Amber forgets her red shoes, eh? So I had to bring her back up here to get her red shoes. So I brought my girlfriend up here, and I just wanted to see how she felt about the place, and she was just totally amazed by the place. So from there, I knew it was, eh? From there, I knew, eh? You know, both of us like it here. Somehow, I've never been really big and doing stuff for myself. And it has to be bigger than myself, you know, whatever. Whatever. If I have to have a motor for what I do, otherwise, I'm totally lazy. If it's to take care of my own needs and my, I'm totally lazy. Even fixing my hands, I let things go too far before I, I'm not motivated that way. So what motivates me is, um, working with other people, but it has to be not just, uh, it has to have some meaning to it. Like, that I've worked with, uh, they're my heroes. Yeah, we have to have our heroes. Easy, easy, easy. When I started growing food, I, uh, I, uh, I just, I come to realize that this is really important. To feed my family and my friends and, and people around me. And that, uh, and that over the years, become an issue. Become, um, uh, uh, uh, really important. It could become more important the longer it is. And I have better understanding of what's really happening and how, and the, the whole idea that we have given up our power to do stuff. Like I left, my parents left without second thought. Their way of, uh, self-reliant, uh, lifestyle. A little mixed farm with, uh, even though it was poverty, they had, they had, they, with their own efforts, they had, uh, they, they didn't have a mortgage. They didn't have any of this stuff. There was, it was hard to find money and so on. But, uh, they had some power in their lives. And I, I want to be human. I want to be, uh, you know, not too, too focused on business or money or any of that, you know. And, uh, I've never really been a money person. Uh, I've been more like, I, I like to have money as a tool. This is my life. So, you, you kind of have to accept that. And, uh, you have to accept the fact that you have to go and look after your cattle and horses if you have the animals. And that's, uh, uh, care and same with your plants. So, it, you have that, that's what's telling you what to do, not somebody, you know. So, that's what I mean about power. You have the choice. You have the choice. And it's still do or die. And when it becomes into the do or die realm, you're, uh, you have to do it. It isn't like, oh, I won't do it. I'll just, uh, you know, go to the food bank. Get my old age pension and they'll call. I could get my old, I'm an old age pensioner. I get 800 a month, you know. I'm an old age pensioner. You know, sometimes we have to go back and, you know, take another trail, you know. Maybe that's where we're at. Maybe that's where the human race is at. Maybe, uh, the, um, to me, the biggest tragedy is that these people today, that they don't know why they're alive. They don't know why they're on this earth. Is it to play computer games or what, uh, is it for kids? They get really good at mountain bike riding or something, uh, like that. That's unnecessary, that they don't have responsibility. I think that's the biggest human tragedy in the South, because it leaves people helpless. That it's all about fun. And what we do is fun. I figure, uh, working from the heart and working with a sense of freedom is, uh, you gotta have the balance, eh? You have to have the discipline to get up in the morning when you have to. You have to have, um, you have to have, uh, courage. You have to be courageous and, and you have to put up with, uh, discomfort and all this stuff. Um, and, um, and, uh, and then you have to see what you're doing as being fairly important, eh? And, uh, and maybe a part of your survival. And then, you can do what I do. You can do what I do.