🐏 Farm Animals Train | Learn Farm Animals & Animal Sounds | Educational Videos from Dave and Ava 🐏
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vBfoQzpItIE
Education
 Farm Animals Train Part 1 Hi kids! Today we're going to learn about the animals that live on a farm. Let's take a ride around Dave and Ava's Animal Farm. Are you ready? Here we go! Chicken Cat Sheep Cow Horse Our animals love to talk and play. But what do the animals say? Let's find out today! Chicken The chickens are busy on the farm all day. Cluck, cluck, cluck, the chickens say. Chickens eat almost anything. Grass Grass Bugs Fruit Vegetables And even table scraps. Chickens can fly a little bit. Cluck, cluck, cluck. Chickens lay lots of yummy eggs. A baby chicken is called a chick. Cat Cat What does the furry cat say? Meow, meow, meow. A cat is a soft and furry pet. Pitts Cat Cat Cat Ron But Cat Silly Is a Cat A dog argument Yeah, Hey! Aunty wife agree try You up Because so you're burnt. analy Sheep! Bah! Bah! The wooly sheep says hello! Sheep graze on grass. Bah! Bah! Sheep love to run, jump, and play in the sunny field. Sheep are covered in fluffy wool. People use wool to make sweaters, socks, hats, and mittens. Wool keeps us warm in the winter. A baby sheep is called a lamb. Cow! This is the cow. She goes moo! Cows give us milk. Butter. And yummy cheese. They spend almost all day chewing on grass. Cows drink a bathtub full of water each day. A baby cow is called a calf. Can you moo like cows do? Moo! Moo! Moo! Moo! Yay! You are doing great! Horse! Nay! Nay! Nay!May! Hi! Cow! Lady cow! difficulties. To eat red采g cap, horse. 주 Tst, tell me how it will be! Way! I love too much food. Good 2016.<|zh|> soil. Fish! Expect goo! Love to run fast. People ride horses for work and fun. A baby horse is called a foal. Now you know what the animals say. Here we go one more time! Chicken Cat Sheep Cow Horse Thanks for touring the farm with us and saying hi to all the animals. See you next time! kiedy le price How to Foto вос partager交ing Hahn Groß All Dave and Ava's videos are now available in the new application! Download and watch offline! Pay once and watch forever! No in-app purchases! No advertising! Kid-friendly and safe! Download today! This little piggy! This little piggy went to market! This little piggy stayed home! This little piggy had roast beef! And this little piggy had none! And this little piggy went wee wee wee! All the way home! All the way home! All the way home! All the way home! All the way home! All the way home! This little piggy drew some pictures This little piggy sang a song This little piggy watered flowers And this little piggy had a call And this little piggy went wee, wee, wee All the way home This little piggy went fishing This little piggy jumped around This little piggy had ice cream And this little piggy had none And this little piggy went wee, wee, wee All the way home This little piggy went to market This little piggy stayed home This little piggy had roast beef And this little piggy had none And this little piggy went wee, wee, wee All the way home Hi kids! In every video I am hiding an object Have you been paying attention? What did I hide this time? Write your answers in the comments Once I caught a fish alive One, two, three, four, five Once I caught a fish alive Six, seven, eight, nine, ten Then I let it go again Why did you let it go? Because it bit my finger so Which finger did it bite? This little finger on my right One, two, three, four, five One, two, three, four, five Once I caught a fish alive Six, seven, eight, nine, ten Then I let it go again Why did you let it go? Because it bit my finger so Which finger did it bite? This little finger on my right One, two, three, four, five Six, seven, eight, nine, ten Brother John One, two, three, four, five One, two, three, four, five Are you sleeping? Are you sleeping? Brother John Morning bells are ringing Morning bells are ringing Ding, ding, dong Ding, ding, dong Are you sleeping? Are you sleeping? Brother John Brother John Morning bells are ringing Morning bells are ringing Ding, ding, dong Ding, ding, dong pickup Field Gamble bijvoorbeeld P attorneys apartment Baby Mai logged Kid Play Baby IP The pieces Morning Wave focus One Little Finger Part 1 One Little Finger One Little Finger Two Little Fingers Tap Tap Tap Point to the ceiling Point to the floor Put them on your head Head! One Little Finger Two Little Fingers Tap Tap Tap Point to the ceiling Point to the floor Put them on your chest Chest! One Little Finger One Little Finger Two Little Fingers Tap Tap Tap Point to the ceiling Point to the floor Put it on your arm, arm One little finger, one little finger Two little fingers, tap, tap, tap Point to the ceiling, point to the floor Put them on your tummy, tummy One little finger, one little finger Two little fingers, tap, tap, tap Point to the ceiling, point to the floor Put them on your leg, leg One little finger, one little finger Two little fingers, tap, tap, tap Point to the ceiling, point to the floor Put them on your foot, foot! One little finger, one little finger Two little fingers, tap, tap, tap Point to the ceiling, point to the floor Now let's say goodbye, bye! Bye! The Wheels on the Bus Part 2 Animal Song The wheels on the bus go round and round Round and round, round and round The wheels on the bus go round and round All through the town All through the town The dog on the bus go woof woof Woof woof woof Woof woof woof The dog on the bus go woof woof woof All day long The cat on the bus goes meow meow meow Meow meow meow, meow meow The cat on the bus goes meow meow meow All day long The pig on the bus goes The pig on the bus goes All day long The cow on the bus goes Moo, moo, moo The cow on the bus goes Moo, moo, moo All day long The duck on the bus goes Quack, quack, quack Quack, quack, quack The duck on the bus goes Quack, quack, quack All day long The chicken on the bus goes囂여, quack, quack Klik, quack, quack Klik, quack, quack The chicken on the bus goes囂여, quack, quack All day long All day long The horse on the bus goes Nay, nay, nay Nay, nay, nay Nay, nay, nay Ganzea, nay, nay Nae, nae, nae All day long All day long The sheep on the bus goes ba, ba, ba Ba, ba, ba Ba, ba, ba The sheep on the bus goes ba, ba, ba All day long All day long The mouse on the bus goes squeak, squeak, squeak The mouse on the bus goes squeak, squeak, squeak All day long The wheels on the bus go round and round Round and round, round and round The wheels on the bus go round and round All through the town Mary had a little lamb Mary had a little lamb Mary had a little lamb Its fleece was white as snow And everywhere that Mary went Mary went, Mary went Everywhere that Mary went The lamb was sure to go Followed her to school one day School one day, school one day It followed her to school one day Which was against the rules It made the children laugh and play Laugh and play, laugh and play It made the children laugh and play To see the lamb at school And so the teacher turned it out Turned it out, turned it out And so the teacher turned it out But still it lingered near Why does the lamb love Mary so Mary so, Mary so Why does the lamb love Mary so The eager children cry Why Mary loves the lamb You know, the lamb you know The lamb you know Why Mary loves the lamb You know, the teacher did reply Mary had a little lamb Little lamb, little lamb Mary had a little lamb Its fleece was white as snow One potato, two potatoes One potato, two potatoes Three potatoes One potato, two potatoes Three potatoes, four Five potatoes, six potatoes Seven potatoes, more One potato, two potatoes Seven potatoes, three potatoes Four more Five potatoes, six potatoes Seven potatoes, more One potatoes, two potatoes Three potatoes, four Five potatoes, six potatoes Seven potatoes, more One potato, two potatoes Three potatoes, four Five potatoes, six potatoes Seven potatoes, more One potato, two potatoes Three potatoes, four Four more One potato, two potatoes Three potatoes, four Four more Five potatoes, six potatoes, seven potatoes, more One potato, two potatoes, three potatoes, four Five potatoes, six potatoes, seven potatoes, more One potato, two potatoes, three potatoes, four, four Five potatoes, six potatoes, seven potatoes, four, four Jack and Jill Jack and Jill went up the hill to fetch a Pail of water Jack fell down and broke his crown And Jill came tumbling after And Jill came tumbling after And Jill came tumbling after And Jack got and home did trot As fast as he could caper And went to bed and bound his head With vinegar and brown paper With vinegar and brown paper With vinegar and brown paper Jack and Jill Jack and Jill Jack and Jill went up the hill To fetch a pail of water Jack fell down and broke his crown And Jill came tumbling after And Jill came tumbling after And Jill came tumbling after Jack ended after Andaling and unaffulED And brown paper with vinegar and brown paper Bingo song P.I.N.G.O P.I.N.G.O There was a farmer had a dog And Bingo was his name Oh! B.I.N.G.O B.I.N.G.O B.I.N.G.O And Bingo was his name name there was a farmer had a dog and bingo was his name oh I NGO I NGO I NGO and bingo was his name oh there was a farmer had a dog and bingo was his name oh NGO NGO NGO and bingo was his name there was a farmer had a dog and bingo was his name oh there was a farmer had a dog and bingo was his name oh there was a farmer had a dog and bingo was his name oh oh oh oh oh and bingo was his name oh there was a farmer had a dog and bingo was his name oh bingo bingo bingo bingo bingo bingo bingo bingo bingo and bingo What's his name uh Red Red Red The Tractor Is Red Red Red The Heart Is Red Red The Butterfly Is Red The Butterfly Is Red The Butterfly Is Red Red Green Green Green The Leaf Is Green Green Green Green Green green green green The grass is green The grass is green Blue blue blue The sea is blue Blue blue blue The boat is blue Blue blue blue The fish is blue The fish is blue The fish is Blue Blue, blue! Yellow, yellow, yellow The bus is yellow Yellow, yellow, yellow The duck is yellow Yellow, yellow, yellow The sun is yellow The sun is yellow The sun is yellow Yellow, yellow Orange, orange, orange The table is orange Orange, orange, orange The chicken is orange, orange orange orange The pumpkin is orange ,ねぇ to his names The pumpkin is orange orange orange Black, black, black The sheep is black Black, black, black The phone is black Black, black, black The book is black purple purple purple The boots are purple purple purple purple the spider is purple purple purple purple the umbrella is purple the umbrella is purple the umbrella is purple purple purple brown brown brown the chair is brown brown brown brown The puppy is brown, brown, brown, brown The paint is brown, the paint is brown The paint is brown, brown, brown White, white, white The snowman is white White, white, white The ball is white White, white, white The mitten is white The mitten is white The mitten is white White white Pink Pink Pink The carpet is pink Pink Pink Pink The pig is pink Pink Pink Pink The cup is pink The cup is pink The cup is pink Pink Pink If you're happy and you know it If you're happy and you know it Clap your hands If you're happy and you know it Clap your hands If you're happy and you know it And you really want to show it If you're happy and you know it Clap your hands If you're happy and you know it Stamp your feet If you're happy and you know it Stamp your feet If you're happy and you know it And you really want to show it If you're happy and you know it Stamp your feet haha If you're happy and you know it turn around haha If you're happy and you know it turn around haha If you're happy and you know it then you really wanna show it If you're happy and you know it turn around HA HA Ha ha! If you're happy and you know it, shout hooray. If you're happy and you know it, shout hooray. If you're happy and you know it, and you really wanna show it. If you're happy and you know it, shout hooray. If you're happy and you know it, shout hooray. If you're happy and you know it, shout hooray. Five little ducks. One, two, three, four, five. Five little ducks went out one day, over the hill and far away. Mother duck said, quack, quack, quack, but only four little ducks came back. One, two, three, four. Four little ducks went out one day, over the hill and far away. Mother duck said, quack, quack, quack, but only three little ducks came back. La, la, la, la, la, la, la. One, two, three, la, la, la, la, la, la. Three little ducks went out one day, over the hill and far away. Mother duck said, quack, quack, quack, but only two little ducks came back. One, two. Two little ducks went out one day, over the hill and far away. Mother duck said, quack, quack, quack, but only one little duck came back. One little duck went out one day, over the hill and far away. Mother duck said, quack, quack, quack, but none of the five little ducks came back. La, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la. Sad mother duck went out one day, over the hill and far away. The sad mother duck said, quack, quack, quack, and all the five little ducks came back. One, two, three, four, five. La, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la. The Phonics Song A is for apple, I, I, I, apple. B is for ball, b, b, b, b, ball. C is for cake, c, c, c, c, cake. D is for dance, d, d, d, d, dance. E is for egg, e, e, e, e, egg. F is for fish, f, f, f, f, fish. G is for glove, g, g, g, g, glove. H is for heart, h, h, h, heart. I is for igloo, e, e, e, e, e, e, e, e, glue. J is for jump, t, t, t, t, t, jump. K is for key, k, k, k, k, key. L is for limp, l, l, l, l, l, l, l, l, l, l. M is for monkey, mu, mu, mu, mu, mu, monkey. N is for nose, n, n, n, n, n, nose. O is for old, o, o, o, old. P is for puppy, pu, pu, pu, pu, puppy. Pu, pu, pu, pu, puppy. Q is for Queen, Q Q Q Queen R is for Rainbow, R R R Rainbow S is for Sun, S S S Sun T is for Tail, T T T Tail T T T Tail U is for Umbrella, U U Umbrella V is for Vase, V V V Vase W is for Wheel, W W W Wheel X is for Box, X X X Box X X X Box Y is for Yellow, Y Y Y Yellow Z is for Zebra, Z Z Z Z Z Zebra Itsy Bitsy Spider N The Itsy Bitsy Spider Climbed up the water spout Down came the rain and washed the spider out Out came the sun and dried up all the rain So the itsy bitsy spider climbed up the spout again La la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la The itsy bitsy spider climbed up the water spout Down came the rain and washed the spider out Out came the sun and dried up all the rain So the itsy bitsy spider climbed up the spout again The itsy bitsy spider climbed up the water spout Down came the rain and washed the spider out Out came the sun and dried up all the rain So the itsy bitsy spider climbed up the spout again La la la la la la la la la la la la The itsy bitsy spider climbed up the water spout Down came the rain and washed the spider out Out came the sun and dried up all the rain So the itsy-bitsy spider climbed up the spout again La-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la La-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la La-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la All Dave and Ava's videos are now available in the new application Download and watch offline Pay once and watch forever No in-app purchases No advertising Kid-friendly and safe Download today Old MacDonald had a farm Old MacDonald had a farm E-I-E-I-O And on his farm he had some ducks E-I-E-I-O With a quack quack here and a quack quack there Here a quack, there a quack, everywhere a quack quack Old MacDonald had a farm E-I-E-I-O Old MacDonald had a farm E-I-E-I-O And on his farm he had a horse E-I-E-I-O With a neigh- neigh here and a neigh- neigh there Here a neigh, there a neigh, everywhere a neigh- neigh Old MacDonald had a farm E-I-E-I-O Old MacDonald had a farm E-I-E-I-O And on his farm he had some pigs E-I-E-I-O With an oink-oink here and an oink-oink there Here an oink, there an oink, everywhere an oink-oink Old MacDonald had a farm E-I-E-I-O Old MacDonald had a farm E-I-E-I-O And on his farm he had some sheep E-I-E-I-O With a baa baa here and a baa baa there Here a baa, there a baa, everywhere a baa baa Old MacDonald had a farm E-I-E-I-O Old MacDonald had a farm E-I-E-I-O And on his farm he had some cows E-I-E-I-O With a moo moo here and a moo moo there Here a moo, there a moo, everywhere a moo moo Old MacDonald had a farm E-I-E-I-O Etch, Ed! E-I-I-I's in bed Rain, rain, go away! Rain, rain, go away Come again another day Little Dave wants to play Rain, rain, go away Rain, rain, go away Come again another day Little Dave wants to play Rain, rain, go away Rain, rain, go away Come again another day Little Dave wants to play Rain, rain, go away Rain, rain, go away Come again another day Little Dave wants to play Rain, rain, go away Rain, rain, go away Rain, rain, go away Rain, rain, go away Rain, rain, go away Come again another day Dave and Ava want to play Rain, rain, go away Rain, rain, go away 10 max life La, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la La, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la Hi kids! In every video I am hiding an object. Have you been paying attention? What did I hide this time? Write your answers in the comments! Apples and Bananas Part 2 I like to eat, eat, eat apples and bananas. What do you like to eat? I like to eat, eat, eat broccoli and cookies! I like to eat, eat, eat broccoli and cookies! I like to eat, eat, eat broccoli and cookies! And what about you guys? I like to eat, eat, eat chocolate and pasta! I like to eat, eat, eat chocolate and pasta! Yummy! I like to eat, eat, eat strawberries and pizza! I like to eat, eat, eat strawberries and pizza! I like to eat, eat, eat strawberries and pizza! I like to eat, eat, eat strawberries and pizza! Fantastic! I like to eat, eat, eat, eat strawberries and pizza! I like to eat, eat, eat strawberries and pizza! I like to eat, eat, eat, eat, eat strawberries and pizza! I like to eat, eat, eat strawberries and pizza! Woo! And what about you kids? Miss Polly had a dolly who was sick, sick, sick! So she called for the doctor to be quick, quick, quick! The doctor came with his back and his hat and he nodded. And he knocked on the door with a rat-a-tat-tat! He looked at the dolly and he shook his head And he said, Miss Polly put her straight to bed! He wrote on a paper for a pill, pill, pill! I'll be back in the morning if the dolly's still ill! I'll be back in the morning if the dolly's still ill! And she said, Miss Polly had a dolly who was sick, sick, sick! Miss Polly had a dolly who was sick, sick, sick So she called for the doctor to be quick, quick, quick The doctor came with his bag and his hat And he knocked on the door with a rat-a-tat-tat He looked at the dolly and he shook his head And he said, Miss Polly put her straight to bed He wrote on a paper for a pill, pill, pill I'll be back in the morning if the dolly's still ill I'll be back in the morning if the dolly's still ill I'll be back in the morning if the dolly's still ill Row, row, row your boat Row, row, row your boat Gently down the stream Merrily, merrily, merrily, merrily Life is but a dream Row, row, row your boat Gently down the stream Merrily, merrily, merrily, merrily Life is but a dream Row, row, row your boat Gently down the stream Merrily, merrily, merrily, merrily, merrily Merrily, merrily, merrily Life is but a dream Row, row, row your boat Gently down the stream Merrily, merrily, merrily, merrily Merrily, merrily, merrily Merrily, merrily, merrily Life is but a dream Row, row, row your boat Gently down the stream Row, row, row your boat Gently down the stream Merrily, merrily, merrily, merrily Merrily, merrily, merrily Roslyn- louder L Missouri, merrily, merrily Five, row, row your boat Row, row, row your boat Gently down the stream Merrily, merrily, merrily, merrily, life is but a dream Life is but a dream Head and shoulders, knees and toes, knees and toes Head and shoulders, knees and toes, knees and toes And eyes and ears and mouth and nose Head and shoulders, knees and toes, knees and toes Head and shoulders, knees and toes, knees and toes Head and shoulders, knees and toes, knees and toes Head and shoulders, knees and toes, knees and toes Head and shoulders, knees and toes, knees and toes Head and shoulders, knees and toes, knees and toes Head and shoulders, knees and toes, knees and toes Teddy bear Teddy bear, teddy bear, turn around Teddy bear, teddy bear, touch the ground Teddy bear, teddy bear, jump up high Teddy bear, teddy bear, touch the sky Teddy bear, teddy bear, take my hands Teddy bear, teddy bear, you're my friend Teddy bear, teddy bear, I love you Teddy bear, teddy bear, this is true Teddy bear, teddy bear, go upstairs Teddy bear, teddy bear, say your prayers Teddy bear, teddy bear, turn off the light Teddy bear, teddy bear, say good night Teddy bear, teddy bear, turn around Teddy bear, teddy bear, touch the ground Teddy bear, teddy bear, jump up high Teddy bear, teddy bear, touch the sky Teddy bear, teddy bear, take my hand Teddy bear, teddy bear, you're my friend Teddy bear, teddy bear, I love you Teddy bear, teddy bear, this is true Teddy bear, teddy bear, go upstairs Teddy bear, teddy bear, say your prayers Teddy bear, teddy bear, turn off the light Teddy bear, teddy bear, say good night Teddy bear, teddy bear, say good night Twinkle, twinkle, little star Twinkle, twinkle, little star How I wonder what you are Up above the world so high Like a diamond in the sky Twinkle, twinkle, little star How I wonder what you are I'm assuming you are Middle star Little star prophet Tysha Sh col guff Twinkle, twinkle, little star How I wonder what you are Up above the world so high Like a diamond in the sky Twinkle, twinkle, little star How I wonder what you are Up above the world so high How I wonder what you are Johnny Johnny yes Papa Johnny Johnny yes Papa Eating sugar no Papa Telling lies No Papa Open your mouth In your mouth Oh Oh Oh Oh Johnny, Johnny Yes, Papa Eating sugar No, Papa Telling lies No, Papa Open your mouth ABC song, U.S. Version A, B, C, D, E, F, G H, I, J, K, L, M, N, O, P Q, R, S, T, U, V W, X, Y, and Z Now I know my ABCs Next time won't you sing with me? A, B, C, D, E, F, G H, I, J, K, L, M, N, O, P Q, R, S, T, U, V W, X, Y, and Z Now I know my ABCs Thank you for singing with me One Little Finger Part 2 One Little Finger One Little Finger Two Little Fingers Tap, Tap, Tap Point to the ceiling Point to the floor Put them on your head Head One Little Finger One Little Finger One Little Finger Two Little Fingers Tap, Tap, Tap Point to the ceiling Point to the floor Put them on your eyes Eyes Eyes One Little Finger One Little Finger Two Little Fingers Tap, Tap, Tap Point to the ceiling Point to the floor Put it on your nose Nose One Little Finger One Little Finger Two little fingers tap tap tap Point to the ceiling point to the floor Put them on your ears ears One little finger one little finger Two little fingers tap tap tap Point to the ceiling point to the floor Put them on your mouth mouth One little finger one little finger Two little fingers tap tap tap Point to the ceiling point to the floor Put them on your chin chin One little finger one little finger Two little fingers tap tap tap Point to the ceiling point to the floor Now let's say goodbye Bye! Bye Bye Black Sheep Bye Bye Black Sheep La la la la La la la la la La la la la la la la Ba наж facilitating the grayunken pink Have you any wool? Yes, sir, yes, sir, three bags full One for my master and one for my dame And one for the little boy who lives down the lane La la la la, la la la la la la Baba black sheep, have you any wool? Yes sir, yes sir, three bags full One for my master and one for my dame And one for the little boy who lives down the lane La la la la, la la la la la la Baba Black Sheep, have you any wool? Yes sir, yes sir, three bags full One for my master and one for my dame And one for the little boy who lives down the lane Baba Black Sheep, have you any wool? Yes sir, yes sir, three bags full One for my master and one for my dame And one for the little boy who lives down the lane And one for the little boy who lives down the lane And one for the little boy who lives down the lane As I was walking down the street, down the street, down the street A very good friend I chanced to meet Hi-ho, hi-ho, hi-ho A-Rig-a-Jig-jig and away we go Away we go, away we go A-Rig-a-Jig-jig and away we go Hi-ho, hi-ho, hi-ho As we were walking down the street, down the street, down the street A very good friend we chanced to meet Hi-ho, hi-ho, hi-ho A-Rig-a-Jig-jig and away we go Away we go, away we go A-Rig-a-Jig-jig and away we go Hi-ho, hi-ho, hi-ho We clapped our hands and stomped our feet Stomped our feet, stomped our feet We clapped our hands and stomped our feet Hi-ho, hi-ho, hi-ho We jumped up high and came back down Came back down, came back down Then we jumped up high and came back down Hi-ho, hi-ho, hi-ho Ariga-jig-jig and away we go Away we go, away we go Ariga-jig-jig and away we go Hi-ho, hi-ho, hi-ho Ariga-jig-jig and away we go Hi-ho, hi-ho, hi-ho Ariga-jig-jig and away we go Hi-ho, hi-ho, hi-ho Humpty Dumpty Humpty Dumpty sat on a wall Humpty Dumpty had a great bow All the king's horses and all the king's men Couldn't put Humpty together again Couldn't put Humpty together again Humpty Dumpty sat on a wall Humpty Dumpty sat on a wall Humpty Dumpty had a great bow All the king's horses and all the king's men Couldn't put Humpty together again Couldn't put Humpty together again Humpty Dumpty sat on a wall Humpty Dumpty had a great bow All the king's horses and all the king's men Couldn't put Humpty together again Couldn't put Humpty together again From the freshly começed in far the high and عável Then as they visioned, they would then come from a wall Mo ABC Song Part 2 US Version A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, O, P, Q, R, S, T, U, V, W, X, Y, and Z Now I know my ABCs Next time won't you sing with me? This time won't you sing with me? A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, O, P, Q, R, S, T, U, V, W, X, Y, and Z. Now I know my A, B, C's Next time won't you sing with me? Number Train Hi kids! Today we're going to learn numbers from 1 to 10. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 Now let's count together! Are you ready? Here we go! 1 1 balloon 2 1, 2 2 apples 3 1, 2, 3 3 donuts 4 1, 2, 3, 4 4 Christmas stockings 5 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 5 butterflies 6 6 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 6 potatoes 7 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 8 8 8 8 9 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 8 8 flowers 9 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 8 flowers 9 9 9 9 9 strawberries 10 10 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 9 strawberries 10 10 1 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 10 10 leaves 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 11 11 12 11 11 12 11 12 12 13 11 12 13 13 14 14 15 15 15 15 15 16 16 16 17 17 18 18 18 18 19 18 20 18 20 20 20 20 21 20 21 21 21 21 22 23 22 23 22 23 23 24 25 23 24 23 26 24 21 25 25 suficiente 26 Active 23 20 21 22 Tick-tock, tick-tock, tick-tock, tick-tock, hickory dickory dock. Hickory dickory dock, the mouse went up the clock. The clock struck two, the mouse went down. Hickory dickory dock, tick-tock, tick-tock, tick-tock, tick-tock, hickory dickory dock. Hickory dickory dock, the mouse went up the clock. The clock struck three, the mouse went down. Hickory dickory dock, tick-tock, tick-tock, tick-tock, tick-tock, hickory dickory dock. Hickory dickory dock, the mouse went up the clock. The clock struck four, the mouse went down. Hickory dickory dock. Hickory dickory dock, the mouse went up the clock. The clock struck four, the mouse went down. Hickory dickory dock. Hickory tickory duck Tick tock tick tock tick tock tick tock Hickory tickory duck Hey diddle diddle Hey diddle diddle The cat and the fiddle The cow jumped over the moon The little dog laughed to see such fun And the dish ran away with the spoon And the dish ran away with the spoon Hey diddle diddle The cat and the fiddle The cow jumped over the moon The little dog laughed to see such fun And the dish ran away with the spoon Hey diddle diddle The cat and the fiddle The cow jumped over the moon The little dog laughed to see such fun And the dish ran away with the spoon Hey diddle diddle The cat and the fiddle The cow jumped over the moon Hey diddle diddle The little dog laughed to see such fun Hey diddle diddle The cat and the fiddle Hey diddle diddle The cat and the fiddle The cow jumped over the moon The little dog laughed to see such funて人們想温ましい See you soon! See you soon!