Crazy Agricultural Tech Innovations in Israel
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vc_DynzW_fA
Travel & Events
 Internet for bees. Underground sensors that can detect how much water a tree roots need. Vertically grown tomatoes and cucumbers. Drones that can harvest crops and herd cows hands-free. Here are five Israeli agricultural technologies that are changing the world. Joe is one of the most professional and seasoned shepherds you'll find. A shepherd's job is to find food, water and shelter for its herd, protect it from predators and preserve the unity of the group. What if I told you that this could now be done from the comfort of an air-conditioned cart? Meet Noam and Svear, two farmers from the Upper Galilee who developed a drone-based method for cow shepherds that is efficient, quick, and easy. They established Beef-Free Agro, a company that uses a drone named Joe to transfer up to 1,000 cattle herds across huge fields with zero human involvement. Throughout history, farmers have always looked up towards the clouds to anticipate the rain. Today's farmers, however, must deal with an entirely different cloud. Meet CropX. The company developed a cloud-based platform that integrates data from unique soil sensors to help farmers optimize their irrigation and fertilization program. The result? A revolution in the decision-making process for agricultural field management. Data is collected and processed from unique soil sensors along with satellite imagery, and more. The information layers produces insights that help farmers to streamline irrigation and fertilization plans, thus saving about 40% in water and 20% in fertilizer and increasing crop yields by about 10%. Our cities are indeed smarter, but they are also bigger and more crowded. Serious battles take place over green patches in urban areas where crops can be grown. But who said that crops have to take up a lot of surface area? Vertical Fields' innovative urban farms create independently local food that is more accessible than ever using vertical space. Vertical Fields' cutting-edge technology has revolutionized the field of urban agriculture, forging a new era in the modern urban ecosystem. Advanced sensors and monitors, LED lighting, and proprietary modular pods allow crops to grow in optimal indoor conditions year-round. The company's vertical farm provides a regular supply of fresh food that is grown on-site and free of chemical pesticides, ensuring food security 365 days a year. Imagine autonomous drones that hover above you in the orchard, select which fruit is ripe for picking, harvest it, and prepare it for transportation. Sound futuristic? Absolutely. Enter Travel Aerobotics. They developed autonomous drones for agriculture that are designed to make up for the shortage of fruit picking in human hands. The drone is equipped with a specialized robotic arm and a bunch of sensors that allow it to pick fruit from trees with no human involvement and knows how to detect the ripeness of the fruit. The robots operate as a team, tethered to a ground unit which collects the fruit, fills the bin, and continues down the row of trees. Internet for bees? Yes, that is actually a thing. The honeybee has a very important job in our lives. The pollination process of bees is responsible for the responsible for about one-third of all of the food that we consume. Parallel to the pollination process is a phenomenon known as colony collapse, which causes the death of bees and can lead to the loss of crops. Instead of beekeepers having to take care of beehives manually, Israeli startup Beeshero aims to transform the beehive into a smart beehive. Beehero uses technology which combines algorithms and big data to collect information in real time on the beehive and its environment. The data is then stored on the cloud and analyzed through machine learning algorithms. Finally, the information is transferred to the beekeepers in real time, allowing them to identify and address problems quickly and efficiently. Early detection of any problems can help beekeepers prevent damage and actually improve the beehives over time. Impressive, right? From bees to cows to apples to cucumbers, these Israeli agricultural technologies are building the future. Some reasons Concrete terthereum, even caregivers have ramifications from the beekeepers say the death of bez street space in real close Colin would win the future. The abandoned Being able to find true