Harvest & count a Turing's sunflower
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VdhrQYdz4rM
Education
 Hi I'm here at Mozy and the sunflowers are growing and maturing and we've got one that hasn't actually completely matured but it's enough that we can show you the counting that we want you to do when your sunflowers are ready. Don't do this when they're still looking like this and they've still got the yellow petals and in particular you can't see the seed patterns very clearly in the middle. You want to wait until all these little floret things have fallen off and you can see black seeds usually black seeds it might be white and black of the sunflower underneath. So once you've got to that stage, for extra bonus points before you get to that stage you can count the petals but that's not the key thing. Before you do anything else just measure the height to the middle of the head and I've got 98cm plus 3 so that's 1m 2 for this sunflower. Now I've measured the head I'm going to take it off. I'm going to take it off I don't know how easy it's going to be. Not very easy it's the answer scissors is what's recommended at this stage. Ok that's not going to work. There we go. Ok so as I said I think this seed head actually probably died and the flower heads fell off before it got to maturity. The other thing that we'd like you to do, we can't do it on this one because they've gone mouldy, is measure these green brackets and count the green brackets around the back. But the key thing is to look at the spiral counts. So let's see if we can do that on this sunflower. I'm just brushing off the flower heads so I can see the seeds underneath. And now we can see, I think we can see just about there's a pattern of seeds here and there's a little spiral of these four seeds all in a line. So what I'm going to do is just so I can count where I'm up to, one, two, three, four, so I've taken out that spiral. Now the key thing that we're trying to count, we're not trying to just go around the outside and go one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, and say how many there were outside because that's not very accurate. What we want to do is count how many of these spirals there are. So I'll start at this one and I'm actually going to call that zero for the reasons you'll see in a minute. So this is one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten. I'll just pull that one out so I can check later on. That's zero, ten, one, two, three, hard to see because it's not a very mature one, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, and I think that's a ten there. I've got a Rimmer on the camera who will tell me if she thinks I've missed any. I think that's ten. Okay, once we've actually taken this, another way, a much better way of doing this actually, is to take a photo of the seed head and then use your computer, you can do it in PowerPoint, to draw lines onto your photo. So that way if you get it wrong you can try again. That's another one. So where do we start from? Zero, ten, twenty, one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten. Okay, and I can see already that we're going to get, in quotes, the wrong answer. Right, so I started here at zero, that's ten, twenty, thirty, thirty, one, thirty-two, oh no that is right, thirty-three, thirty-four. Right, so what we've done is we've counted all the way round the outside of the head, the number of spirals, we started at zero, went up in tens, got to thirty, and then finished off with thirty-one, thirty-two, thirty-three, thirty-four, before we had number one. So this has got thirty-four spirals around the outside of its number head, which if you like Fibonacci numbers is good news, because thirty-four is a Fibonacci number. Now the next thing we want you to do is to notice which way that spiral is. This, as you go out, from the centre outwards, it's curving round in a clockwise direction, so we call that clockwise spiral. And then the next thing is to look at the spirals in the opposite direction. So we might need to zoom in again. Right, so we were counting spirals there before, but if you just follow my finger, there's another line of spirals here. So I'll pull out a seed to count that one. One. Two. Again, maybe a good tool would help here. Now these are flatter, so there should be less of these, I guess, around the seed head. So let's see if we can count those by hand. Zero. One. Two. This is what, if you do end up taking a photo, you need to be really careful, because you see these areas round here where the structure isn't very easy to see, and maybe if you rub off some of the extra gunk it's easier to see the little white dots that really help your eyes see the spirals. So that's one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, and I think that one is ten. So that's one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, and I think that one is ten. So that's one. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, and I think that one is ten. I think that's the extra one there by mistake. Okay, so that was from our beginning, zero, ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen, seventeen, eighteen, nineteen, twenty, twenty-one. Do you know, I've done this probably twenty times now on Sunflowers, and I'm always just amazed every time it comes out with Fibonacci numbers. It is just fantastic. So, the good news is that the Science Museum is capable of growing sunflowers which obey the Fibonacci rules. The big question is out of all of these sunflowers, how much of the time are we going to find that that's true? When it isn't true, what are the patterns going to look like? So, good luck with the counting.