Quantifying the Economic Impacts of Soil Health Practices on Tree Crops
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VDnOEeaywbA
Education
 Hello? Can you hear me? Yeah, we can hear you, Paul. Okay, good. Yeah, should I... I don't see anybody, but I guess that's okay. Do you see a screen? I'm going to go ahead and put my screen up. Yeah, that's up, Paul. Okay. Right, I don't see myself, but I'm going to just let you guide me. Now, Samuel, if you speak to me during the presentation, which I would encourage, or I can speak to you, right? So I guess the audience will hear us speak, you know, our conversation. Yeah, folks can hear you, Paul. Okay, and so they'll hear you as well? When I unmute, yes. Right. So what I'm a little concerned about is not being able to see Jean. It doesn't look like Jean is on yet. Right. So if I can't see her, I will let you manage that. Okay. Oh, it says change presenter. Maybe that's all it is. No, that's not it. Can you... You can handle the change presenter portion, Samuel. Hey, Paul, can you mute real quick and call me on Teams, please? Oh, thank you Thank you. What are we doing? Do you see my screen? Yes, we can see your screen, Paul. Okay. And you can see me, but I can't see you. No, your camera's not on, Paul. Oh, there I am. Can't really shrink it. Okay. I'll leave it like this. Samuel, what's the status with getting Jean in? Jean is in right now, figuring out how to get her in as a presenter. Okay. Well, I'm going to let you let me know when we should start. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Folks, if you're out there, we're working on getting organized, so I appreciate your patience. Well, it looks like Gene is in now, if you want to get started. Great. Okay. Gene, do you hear me? Can you speak back or so? Well, I think we have some time to work that out. What do you think, Sam? Gene's microphone might not be connected at all. Let me figure something out. Thank you. If you have just joined, thanks for your patience. We're getting organized. We're going to start very shortly. Just let me know, Samuel, and we'll go ahead and start. I'll let you figure this out. Gene, it looks like you got your microphone working. Can you confirm? Yes. Okay. Great, Gene. I think you can turn it back off, but once we get to your session, then go ahead and turn it back on, and I'll guide you on that. Okay. Okay. I don't know if I have to turn it off. I usually have a mute button. Gene, I'll mute you for now. Okay. Sounds good. Okay, Paul, take it away. Okay. Great. I hope you can see me and hear me well. Good morning, everybody. This is Paul Lum with the American Farmland Trust, California region. I'm the California project manager, and I thank you for your attendance and interest in your programs. Thank you for your patience getting started. This is our first webinar using GoTo's platform, and hopefully it will go well. And thanks for braving the winds. In my region, we're actually under a rolling blackout warning. So, um, to continue with us today is our guest speaker, Gina Kouyeh of Merced County. Jean and her family own an almond orchard. Um, and of which her son-in-law, Ralph Sauter, is the farmer. Jean is also the president of the East Merced Resource Conservation District. And with us is Samuel Modrigal of the American Farmland Trust, California region. Samuel will manage the technical aspects of the webinar, especially the chat box and Q&As. During the presentations, feel free to enter questions in the Q&A box. And at the end of each session, we will address questions. We'll use the chat box for internal use and information. We will be taking a 10-minute break around 9.50. It might be earlier. And we'll finish the webinar no later than 11 o'clock. So for our webinar today, I'll talk about soil health case studies that American Farmland Trust has published. And how the case studies can be of value to you and the growers you work with. Gina Kouyeh and her son-in-law, Ralph, participated in our first case study. And Jean will talk about her family's farming practices and how those practices have benefited soil health. And Jean might be able to speak to how we connected with Jean's family and began the case study process and how that case study has benefited her. We will, after I speak, Jean will speak and we'll take our break. And then we're going to describe an economic method. It's an analysis method. The NRCS Level 3 T-chart that can be used to evaluate costs and benefits from changing farming practices. The T-chart method is a way to learn if changes in farming practices can be beneficial or unprofitable. And for our final session, I'll talk about writing a case study. This could be valuable for you to help growers that you work with to determine if there's profit potential in practicing in soil health practices. And whether there's environmental impact to adopting and changing practices to improve soil health and consider marketing opportunities. So in sum, we hope the combined instruction today is informative and provides an opportunity for you to help growers become more successful. The goal of our four part training is to increase farm adoption of healthy soils practices by providing evidence of economic and economic benefit. By training ag professionals on cost benefit tools a little bit later today, such as the T-chart. And on event environmental assessment tools, such as the nutrient tracking tool and Comet Planner or Comet Farm. We hope that ag professionals such as yourself will encourage farmers that you work with to adopt one or more practices that improve soil health. Our work is supported by the National Institute of Food and Agriculture, USDA, through a grant with Western Sustainable Agricultural Research and Education Program. That's Western Share. So this is our webinar schedule. The four part series. And so our next webinar will be on November 4th. And we're going to focus on environmental tools. November 19th, focusing on wine grape growers and wine grape agrofessionals. And December 1st, focusing on wine grapes as well on the environmental methods. In January, we're going to resume a webinar series. We're going to train on the American Farmland Trust partial budget analysis, which is a deeper dive into cost benefit analysis. And we're going to train on Comet Farm. That's the environmental tools a little bit more detailed than Comet Planner. So those dates in January will be, they will be announced soon, next month at some time. American Farmland Trust was founded in 1980. And our mission is to protect farmland, promote environmentally sound farming practices, and keep farmers on the land. And we're going to be able to do that. Here's today's agenda. And note, we'll be taking a 10 minute break in between the two for early sessions and the two later sessions. I have it down at 950. But it may be earlier. You know, I will just take the break when we get there. And we're, our Q&A sessions will be held at the end of each talk. So we're certainly going to allow time to answer questions. So why quantify soil health outcomes? We know there's scientific evidence that farm practices that, such as cover crops, nutrient management, compost applications, improve soil health, and water quality. But there's not much information out there about the economic benefits or net profit potential from soil health. And farmers want to know the bottom line. So our case study project goal is to scale up farming practices that improve soil health. We want to provide tangible evidence of benefits to healthy soils. We want to promote the case studies to increase awareness. And we are publishing a user friendly, two page compelling document. It's informational. It's like a handout that tells the story of a grower who has successfully adopted soil health practices. And we disseminate those case studies to encourage farmers to adopt the practices. And to get, to gain awareness in the community that practices that improve soil health are worthwhile. So, get back to the slide. AFT has published eight case studies across the US. So they, the case studies are developed and authored by AFT staff and reviewed by economists and specialists from NRCS, USDA, and Colorado State. The case, they're, they're co-branded with NRCS. And across the country, the case studies have assessed corn and soybean rotations in Ohio and Illinois and diversified crops in New York. So the, some of these other case studies across the country have also evaluated livestock rotations in, in, on the farm management scheme. So, in California, two case studies have been published, evaluating almond orchards in Merced County and Madera County. AFT focused on the Northern San Joaquin Valley with consideration of the farming challenges among growers there with groundwater concerns, lowering water tables,残ходs, experts with nodes. distributed University of Canada. And those otheranias are annual reporting figures on the forest, being minded,national We hope some growers report that they can decrease their water application or skip the first irrigation in the spring due to winter water retention in the soil or perhaps skip the last irrigation before harvest. These are irrigation savings that eventually may improve or mitigate for the water table and groundwater conditions in that part of our state. The case study objectives, we use methods to quantify the impacts from the soil health farming practices. For economic outcomes, I'm talking about the wrong slide here. So for the California case studies, four farming practices are assessed. Nutrient management, referring to fertilizer application based on leaf and soil sampling. We encourage leaf sampling throughout the year. Soil sampling is typically done annually. We encourage annual instead of, say, biannual or every three or four years. Going to fertigation, which is evidence that is much more efficient. And targeted fertilizer applications, referring to using efficient fertilizer formulations, meeting the crop demand, focusing on minimizing nitrate leaching and over application. Other practices include conservation cover. And with almonds, that could be cover crop seed planting or maintaining resident vegetation. Compost application and mulching of annual prunings. So we are not necessarily advocating a combined effort. We hope that growers try it practice or to learn from it. We realize it takes years to build soil health. And some of the growers that we work with are combining all four practices. And, but we can, you know, we can work with a grower, provide technical advice for a grower trying one practice and considering another or adding another. Case study objectives. Case study objectives. We use quantitative methods to determine the impacts from healthy soils farming practices. For economic outcomes, we are using NRCS T-charts or the American Farmland Trust Partial Budget Analysis. For water quality impacts, we're using USDA's nutrient tracking tool. And climate impacts, USDA's climate farm tool. The next step in developing a case study, we identify farmers who have successfully adopted soil health practices and are willing to share their experience. We interview them, prepare the case studies. Again, it's the two-page user-friendly human interest story. We have those case studies reviewed by NRCS to verify and confirm that we use the methods correctly and enter data and make sure the calculations and findings are correct. Disseminate the case studies to growers, ag professionals, and the general public. We hope to scale up awareness among farmers and ag community and demonstrate that there are benefits to building soil health and potentially positive net returns. So, note, our work is not scientifically replicated research. We don't measure a number of soil parameters. We do record soil organic matter percentage over time. But our aim is to tell the story of a grower's experience with improving soil health and conveying his or her approaches to farming and stewardship. And we use the tools to assess benefit to the grower's bottom line and estimate impact to water quality and greenhouse gas emissions. We recognize it takes years to build up soil. And each farmer has different soil types, equipment, budgets, management approaches. So, each grower is going to have different results from adopting soil health practices. But we hope our case studies raise awareness. And it's another way to put information out there from another farmer. And, you know, hopefully we can make a positive contribution. Hopefully the farmer can see a positive contribution to net returns in the environment by adapting one or two of the practices or more. So, for when we looked at the two case studies, the overarching findings for the two almond orchards, we found an average yield increase of 15 percent attributable to soil health practices over a 12-year period since the soil health practices were adopted. The growers made best estimates when attributing yield increase and with consideration to variables in almond production and or any type of crop production. The perennial crops, you know as well as anybody, annual weather conditions affect production from year to year and during the growing season. And the growers considered annual variations in disease and insect pressure. Both orchards were full bearing when the soil health practices were implemented. And that gives us a solid baseline where we don't have to discount the fact that yields are increasing over the years due to maturity. So, by making those best estimates, we found the average change in net income was $824 per acre over the 12-year period. Meaning that the baseline 12 years ago, the grower was making XYZ per acre. And currently, that amount per acre in net income has increased by $824. The value is adjusted for inflation and for market prices. Environmental assessment. The water quality improvement. The water quality improvement. The water quality improvement. For each farm was different. And for Ralph Souda of Acoulier Farms, we found a 98% reduction in nitrogen losses. Over the, I think for Souda, it was a, well, 12-year period, 10-year period. And, I'm sorry, 14-year period. And climate, Comet Farm estimated greenhouse gas emissions reduced by 16% over that period. So, we will, going back to that slide, we will introduce the nutrient tracking tool and climate planner at our next session on November 4th. Next slide. We consider the grower inputs to develop the case study. We will ask the grower what his costs were and make that comparison between costs from the baseline period. For instance, 14 years ago and now. And that could include, depending on the farm, equipment changes, herbicide changes, fertilizer increases or decreases. For almonds especially, miticide, fungicide. For tree crops, again, compost. Irrigation costs, pollination, et cetera. For our case study with Ralph Souda, he adopted healthy soils practices starting 2004 and adopted the four practices that we assess when we do a case study. Nutrient management, conservation cover, mulching, and compost application. He probably adopted those practices over a period of a few years. Study acre, study area was all 116 acres of his farm at the time. And I believe that, that Ralph is farming more acres now. So the findings again, annual change in total net income, 76,000. Annual change in per acre net income, 657 dollars per acre, over 14 year period since the dates of soil health adoption. So Ralph says, I'm a firm believer that these practices made my trees and soils healthier. So Ralph, that's a good example. And another note about these case studies. And as I mentioned, it is a human interest story as well. And we include background information about Ralph and the family. And a history about his family's farm. And some of those tidbits are, you know, I think farmers can relate to that. We're, we're assessing the experience from a fellow farmer. And in many cases, a fellow farmer growing the same crop in the same area. So the case study, we illustrate the economic effect using the AFT partial budget analysis method. And the, that analysis is on page two. And you can see the, the net result on the bottom. And you can see the, the changes over the 14 year period in income on the left. Cost decreases on the left column. And changes in costs on the right. So you can see that Ralph was able to save on herbicides after switching to conservation cover. And we found reduction, I'm sorry. You know, basic positive effects on the left. And negative effects on the right. Environmental, environmental benefit. Stated in the case study from our use of the nutrient tracking tool and Comet Farm. We were able to show the reduction in nitrogen losses and greenhouse gas emissions. The lower left is the homepage for USDA's nutrient tracking tool. And again, we're going to introduce that to you on November 4th. And the Comet Farm tool USDA homepage. So those are the, the information and ways to use those methods. And we're going to introduce Comet Planner, which is related to Comet Farm. It's a more basic method, easier to use. And we'll talk about that also on November 4th. So how can ag professionals benefit from these case studies? We hope that you can help growers that you work with by sharing the case studies. To demonstrate grower examples of soil health success. And show the quantitative examples from the two growers that adopted soil health practices. We hope you and your growers encourage on-farm adoption among farmers and the ag community. So how can growers use the case studies? Growers have an opportunity to read about the experience of their peers. Many might know the growers that we evaluated. The case studies provide evidence of soil health success from two growers. It allows growers to advocate healthy soils practices with their landowners, crop buyers, bankers. And it may potentially provide marketing opportunities. In sum, the case study is, it's a grower story. With their experience implementing practices to improve soil health. It allows us to share the growers approach and philosophy towards sustainable farming and good stewardship. And we hope to publish more case studies in the future. And we are working with several wine grape growers to publish grower profiles. We are also collaborating with other agencies on soil health projects. Such as RCDs, NRCS. And we're staying connected with University Extension and crop researchers and nonprofits. An example is CAF. We stay connected with CalCan. We try to stay updated with ag research and ag outreach. That's being done to further our goals to scale up adoption of sound farming practices. Well, thank you for listening about, listening to us and to me about our case study work. And our goals to share stories and evidence that healthy soils, building healthy soils, can be beneficial to the grower as well as the environment. And next, we're going to have Gina Coyier speak about her family's experience with the farming practices that they've implemented with consideration to soil health. And she might be able to touch on her family's experience helping us develop the case study. Then, let's talk about your results. Hello. Can you hear me? I can hear you. Shall I start? Samuel? Shall we let her start? Shall we start? Great. Okay. You know, Paul, I really liked your message so far. You talk about the bottom line, and this is, it's always about the bottom line with us farmers, you know? We've got to make money doing it, or we will be not in business. Also, education, education, education. And I think this is really, really important, and that's what helped us in our farm so much, I think. So Ralph, when he came into the picture, he was about 38 years old. When I first started, many years before that, I was 40 years old. Neither one of us had been from a farming background, but we were very much attached to the land, and it felt good to be productive. He kept very good records, probably a lot better than I did. I started out with solid set sprinklers in 1980. I managed the ranch pretty much myself because my husband was ill when we moved to the farm. The farm's been in the family since 1907. Japanese Americans came, started this colony here where I live. So that's 113 years we've had this farm in our family, and we know how hard they worked to make it successful, almost lost it a couple of times. So I felt, well, first thing I've got to do is get more educated. I didn't do anything. Somebody said I was going from Debussy to dust because I used to teach piano. And it was quite a change. But I think one of the main things is to be able to educate people and for us farmers to listen to people. So I took a class in 1983, three unit class at Merced College. Maxwell Norton was a farm advisor with UC Extension. New to the job, I think. And he had a great class on orchard and vineyard management. And that probably saved my life. That and having other farmers around my, in my community that helped come up, come over and figure out how to move things. We started our farming not having any background and not having anybody on the farm because there was a sudden death. And there was no one, there was only one person running the farm. So we had to go through a lot, $200,000 inheritance on 80 acre farm. The house had not been painted since 1920 when it was built. I used 300 fuses because it had a 15 amp fuse downstairs and went upstairs on 3,400 square foot. So it was a real, real challenge getting this farm going and keeping it going. But we worked hard. We did it as a family and I just reached out. So I think it's really important that we try to reach out to farmers and, you know, educate them. When I first came, we used UN32. And at that time, almonds were supposed to be pruned 25% every year. So we took these old trees, which were probably close to a cord of wood, and we started pruning them. And it was the worst thing we could have done because they didn't have any support. They had not been pruned that way. And so we ended up pruning twice, I think the first year. And we had so many big branches down. It was terrible. We watered with pulling hoses. Every other row, we had a hose for four rows we'd cover, and then for 24 hours, we'd have to move it. So I think I had 126 hoses we had to pull every time we irrigated. I ended up putting it in solid sets so that I could manage the irrigation because we didn't have money to pay for labor. And so we just did this as a family project to survive. But I think going to different workshops as people maybe, you know, with our tour getting information that Paul is giving you on this workshop, getting involved, I joined the Farm Bureau. I got very involved with other farmers. We looked at the American Farmland Trust. They had a report on paving over paradise. And we use that so much to educate people, such as when we did the general plan update, people start paying, paving over the farmland. And we could see all of the influence from the Bay Area, people wanting to move over here where land was cheap. And I would find it harder and harder to farm with all the traffic. Wow, we've got to save the farmland. So we started, a few of us farmers started a non-profit Valley Land Alliance, which is still going and we're still making comments trying to save farmland. And our mission was to educate, to save farmland. So getting back to what Ralph did in the study, as I said, we started out with UN32. And I had soils, a test of the soil and test of the leaves. And I could see there was nutrition in the ground, but the trees weren't picking it up. And then I had a neighbor, actually it was a woman, who really influenced me. And so, because she had a real good crop. The 80s were bad, bad years for us and many farmers with almonds. And I asked her what she did. Well, she put a lot of, we used manure at that time. So she put a lot of manure on and she banded the potassium. And I did quite a few pounds per tree. And I, wow. So I got, I put the manure on first couple of years. And then I had these little, little things coming up out of the ground. I thought, what, what's causing this dirt to come up? And I asked somebody and it was earthworms. Before that, I didn't even have any earthworms. And I thought, wow. So I realized that the soil must be healthier because it had earthworms. So we changed, you know, to do using a lot more manure and then compost. About that time, there was problems with salmonella, with some almonds that were found. And so we got away from manure, went to compost. But I am a firm believer in that. And Ralph today feels that it's so important to use compost. In fact, he said 23% of the almonds are nuts that are pulled out of the ground. When we, when we load a truck with, you know, to have it sent into the huller and, and sheller, he says 23% is nuts, but that you take out of the orchard. But there's also a lot of the other stuff that goes in. We have the hulls, we have the shells, we have sticks, we have some leaves. So there's a lot of organic we're taking out of the soil. And a lot of people, I don't think realize that we're taking so much out, we're destroying our soils. That's one reason I got involved with the Resource Conservation District. And now we're emphasizing healthy soils. So it's composting, extremely important, extremely important. Another thing which happened as soon as Ralph joined the farm here, he was, like I said, he was 38 years old. He was an engineer in Europe. And he really liked to, likes to grow things. And so we farmed, I showed him what I did for about a year and then let him pretty well take over. But we, I had everything replanted, you know, I do blocks, like 12 to 15 acres of block. And as I said, I put it in solid set sprinklers because I could manage that. And with a drip, you know, you have, it takes more time to go through the orchards. And you get the holes, you know, well, the earwigs were bad at that time. And they'd lay eggs in them. So anyway, he, first thing he did was take that last block that I had that wasn't irrigated, didn't have an irrigation system yet. And he decided, well, we've got to go with drip or misters. And so he put that in. And then he started doing fertigation so he could manage his nutrients. And that saved a lot, a lot on expenses and water also. So instead of watering the entire orchard as I was doing, he watered, you know, where the trees are. And that's, of course, where the roots are going to grow. So when he puts in, he has things with fertigation that's putting, you know, putting the nutrients in with the water. But the compost, he puts closer to the trees. He doesn't spread it all over the entire orchard. And I think that he feels that's really important to do that. Yeah. We've done chipping and we have nine acres left of one of the old orchards that need to be planted. And we're going to probably pay, it looks like it's going to cost the following. $650 to grind up the orchard. This is per acre. And $250 to spread the chips. So that's $900 an acre. And you can apply for Air Resource Board for grants. $650 if you spread it out is what they're paying, he was told. That's $650 an acre. So it's only costing him $250 an acre. And you're getting a lot of that organic material I talked about. With he's done the cover crops, we use the, we have the just whatever comes up, you know, the grasses and whatever comes up. However, we have in the past uncovered crops. I did crimson clover, which was beautiful. People used to stop and take pictures of it. That's a real pretty flower and clover is good for a cover crop. We've also, where I had that one last area of solid set sprinklers, he was able to put in, I think it's an exerces, an organization that's sponsored by the Ammon Board. We got free seeds. And so he planted 17 acres at that time. We had 17 still in the solid set. And with that, right after we'd harvest almonds, we could put in the seeds and we could water them in, because we had water over the whole area. So that's one problem with cover crops, if you want to plant something. And he was raising bees at the time. And it was always a problem keeping the bees over the winter, you know, having nutrition for them. So with this, he had, was able to have something that would bloom earlier before the almonds bloomed. And that worked very well. And it was great. We could harvest, I even found some broccoli plants. I don't know where the seeds came from. But anyway, broccoli, but we had the daikon. It's a Japanese long radish. I'd go out there and pick that out. The cover crop, I think the canola grew six feet tall. It was beautiful. And it was great because the bees had, had food. So, but it was, it's harder now because we don't have any solid set sprinklers left. So, I don't know what else. I could talk about the compost a little bit, maybe. The type of compost he uses now is livestock, chicken and dairies. And of course, you know, getting, thinking about the bottom line, you want to get something that's as local as you can and, you know, what's available in your area. It's, I think that's, that's about all I have to say. And maybe I've run out of time anyway or talk too much. So, if you have any questions. Anybody out there, feel free to ask Gene. This is your shot at it. I'd just like to say that, you know, in closing that it is the bottom line. And we're, we have so much concern now about water. And we've got to find ways to not take it out of the ground where we can't replenish it. And I think working together and it becoming more educated so we can educate others. And together, working together, we can find solutions. And, and also that bottom line, that's what we farmers are all looking for. We'll improve that. Thank you. Gene, can you hear me? Yes. Okay. I am curious if you recall how American Farmland Trust connected with you and Ralph to begin the case study. Because it is the first case study for California. California. So, how did that, and I have my previous co-worker, Justin Bodell, that started that project. How did that all come about? Well, as I mentioned, Paving Over Paradise was one of the guides that, that I used in talking to many, many people. And American Farmland Trust is, you know, very concerned about saving farmland, as I am in a lot of our farmers are. And so, we, we connected many, many different meetings, I think. And because I'm on the Resource Conservation District Board, worked, I've gotten hedgerow funding through NRCS. Ralph has gotten funding through, through them. I think they, Justin saw me, or became more familiar with me. I was president of the Farm Bureau, too, from Merced County, maybe that. You know, just exposure, and just reaching out. And I think he saw that I was trying to, you know, solve problems like he is trying to solve, you are trying to solve now. And to help others. And because I had taken advantage of some of these opportunities, and I was able to save this farm, not single-handedly, but I should say we. I think he, he felt that because I had, I had hedgerows, I'd had the cover crops. And then he learned, he met Ralph, came onto the property and met Ralph, and realized that Ralph was very good with keeping figures. He's, I guess, because of his past managing a company, as an engineer, he, he was very, very efficient in keeping figures. And that's probably really important, too, for everybody to know. And that's something I learned in Maxwell, Maxwell Norton's class back in the 80s. You've got to really pencil it out. You got to know, you know, your income and your expenses and spray at the right time, do, do things efficiently. And I think he saw that in Ralph, and realized that Ralph had information, documented information. I didn't have that as much, but, but Ralph has. So Ralph has been here for 15 years. Justin, we've been on, you know, I get on webinars, I, I, I attend different, different meetings. And I've seen him different places. I think he's gone to the California Resource Conservation District conferences. And I think, I think we're, we're, you know, I'm trying to do what is best to make this not just productive and find the bottom line for one year. But for my children, my grandchildren, you know, they say, Indian saying is you shouldn't do anything to your land. That's, that's going to affect the seventh generation down the road. And I think that this is something we need to always think about. It's not just what we're taking out right now, at the moment. And that's one reason we've gotten such a problem with water. We've taken water out of the ground in those deep aquifers, a little Corcoran layer, and that water will never go back in. So it, it just, we cannot destroy our soils, and our land. And I think that's why there's such an effort to, to improve the soils. I'm not organic. We had a bios program in the late eighties. Um, we had two brothers. One was conventional farmer and the other one was a organic farmer. It was Glenn Anderson and his brother. And, uh, the farm, the UC extension, Lonnie Hendricks was a farm advisor that I think, they did a study over several years and they decided, they, they realized that the person that was doing the organic farming really came out the best. Uh, the conventional farmer was not as productive. So we get back to that bottom line. So I really feel that, um, the more we can, we can learn and we can teach others about, um, the importance of healthy soils and water. And you think about how much water is saved when you have healthy soils. We're doing carbon farming now, uh, plants, and you're going to get into that, I think, in your next session. Um, but I, I think getting that back into the ground, the carbon, we keep this balance, you know, it's, it's very important. Of course, all of our fires now we've got such a problem. Um, you know, but we've, we've got to, we've got to manage, manage our, our land and have healthy soils. If we want to make, make it work out for us today and for the future generations. Thank you, Jean. I talk too much. Jean and Paula, there's a few questions here. Uh, I think this one is probably for Jean. Uh, it's asking what type of cover crops are you using now that your blocks don't use solid set irrigation? Jean and Paula, we use this, it's just whatever comes up. It's whatever's there. And, um, so we, we don't, um, we don't spray it down the middles. Uh, I think we're off did once this last year because of one particular problem when we, but, uh, whatever comes up is what's used now. Uh, because we don't have any, any irrigation like, like I had with the solid sets. But we mow it, we, and we keep it pretty late, pretty late in the spring or early summer. And here's another question for you, Jean. Uh, someone's asking what the typical cost on compost per acre is. The cost for what? Compost per acre. You know, I'm, I'm not, I'm, I'm not sure what he's paying now. Sorry, I can't, I can't answer that, but, um, maybe, maybe, um, Paul, do you know? Well, I know, um, some averages. Uh, right. Four to five tons an acre composted cow manure plus spreading. Um, the range might be 120 an acre to 160. Um, it's very, uh, it's difficult to access depending on the location where you are in the state. Um, you know, if you're near, um, dairies, uh, that, uh, compost or you're near, um, you know, facilities that provide that or sell it. Um, so that's a factor. So I know of growers that spend, um, in that range, 120 to 150 per acre. Thanks, Paul. Right. I'm not breaking it down, you know, per ton, but that's a rough figure. And we have another question. And we have another question. Go ahead, Jane. It really does depend, depend where you are. See, we have Foster Farms chickens in, in Merced County and, and Stanislaus around me. So, um, and then we have a lot of dairies. So price would be lower for trip shipping particularly, you know. Um, I'm sorry. Go ahead. You had a question. Yeah, there was another question for you on covered crops. Uh, someone is asking, uh, when did they flower? Uh, and do you know which species were flowering? And there's a second part to that question also. Well, with the, the, uh, planting of the 17 acres, uh, where I had the solid set, uh, that, that was for bees. And there were four, I think there were basically four different things. And canola was one of them. They had the, I told you the daikon radish. So different radishes. Uh, Paul, you may have some other information on that. Um, but it, that was, uh, they flowered. We, we put it, we planted, uh, we put those seeds in. And as soon as we harvested almonds, so it was in October and by December, end of December, they were up quite high, but then we could water them. Uh, because we often don't get rains until, you know, later. So, um, they had, they're almost all yellow flowers, by the way. But they, um, they were flowering the end of December to, until we had to cut them down, you know, before the, during, with bloom time, February. So it provided the, uh, you know, flowers for the bees in the winter time. It was a real good, it was a real good thing to do, I think. But you have to have the water. You know, guaranteed water. Yeah, so that's a good transition into the next part of that question was, uh, they were asking if you've gotten enough rainfall to grow the planted cover crops. No, that's, and, and it's, it's not just the rainfall. It's when it comes, you know, I mean, how much of it is when it comes. Uh, you could possibly, my son-in-law was saying, you could put something in the spring, possibly, if you had, um, you know, if you have rains. Because we often get, get rains later, late, you know, late winter and in spring. So that could be, um, a possibility. But he doesn't, he doesn't plant it in the spring. So we just, we just rely on what comes up. Uh, he encourages the clover and we see more clover come up, uh, when he can leave it, uh, so it can seed. I guess, uh, I don't know what the cycle is, but, uh, I have noticed that, um, and the clover is good to have. But we don't plant anything. Uh, we just depend on the rains and it's hard. It's hard, especially, you know, like this year, it looks like we won't have rain for a while. And, um, by the time you get something up, um, you know, you, you have to be careful that you don't have a lot of, a lot of, um, you know, grass or, uh, cover crop when it comes frost season or frost time. Of course, our weather is changing. It seems like it, we don't have those severe frosts like we used to have. But, so you have to get it down low. You want, you know, you want to have, have, if you have anything on the ground, you want to have it mowed down, but frost time. Uh, and then here's a, another question that I'm not, this one might be for Paul based on the case studies, but they're asking, how do you figure out the nitrogen availability and adjust fertilizer to the mineralized nitrogen from organic matter? Well, that is, um, not really something that, you know, we will measure. Um, you know, of course, uh, nutrient cycling, there is, um, uh, uh, the, the, the gradual change in, you know, the nitrogen cycle, um, nitrate, uh, change to availability of the plants, but it's not really our arena to, um, figure that out. I think there are a lot of crop consultants and, um, researchers and dealers that have that information. So I could point, um, you out or point you in the right direction, but, um, unfortunately, I'm, I'm not able to answer that very well. Um, right. Thank you though for the question. Uh, we do have one last question and also I'll just add, uh, one of our colleagues mentioned that, uh, in our case studies, the report on cost per acre for compost is $130. And, uh, the last question that someone is asking, uh, I believe it's for Jean. They're asking, do you sample manure before applying it to avoid manure with high nitrates? Uh, and where would you go to sample? You know, I'd have to ask Ralph and he's not here. So I can't, I, I don't do that personally. So I, I can't tell you, but I can get, uh, we can get that information back to, uh, to you. I'm sure as a followup, right, Paul? Right. We sure can. And I, lastly, I have something, um, and Sam, well, maybe you're going in this direction. The audience would like to see Eugene. They'd like to see your face for a moment. Is that possible? I don't know. I might break the screen. Am I pushing you on that one? That's fine. So. Let us know. Or let me know. There's my face. And it's not a young one. Okay. Right. Great. It's not a young one. When you know, I came here in 1980 and I was 40 years old. So you, you know what old I am. I'm still very active. I'm still out there fighting. Right. Okay. Well, thank you, Gene. It was great to hear your experience and your stories. Um, and, uh, you know, your passion to sustainable farming, stewardship, building soil health. Um, and I want a housekeeping note. We, um, today's webinar is recorded and, um, should be available for future reference. Um, but, uh, again, Gene, I can't thank you enough. Um, really good to hear, you know, to hear your experiences. We're going to take a 10 minute break now and, um, we'll come back and talk about, um, economic methods. Paul, can I add one more thing? If you can act? Yes. Go ahead, Gene. I know I talk too much, but, um, you know, that 2018 study of yours, I don't have it in front of me, the strategic, uh, you know, when I said study, I mean, um, about land use. I really think that is something that, uh, people need to look at and promote more. Um, if you can somehow share that with your people. Okay. Um, it is, yeah, for American Farmland Trust, it's our focus. It's, um, our priority and our, uh, we're fully committed and dedicated to that. That, uh, you know, preserving productive farmland. Okay. Yeah. If you could share it, that'd be great. Thanks. Thank you all for coming. All right. Thank you. Um, we'll be back at, um, 1013, um, and enter questions in the Q&A. Um, I didn't, um, address, uh, any additional Q&As yet, so we'll address that later. Um, I'll see you soon. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Paul. Thank you, Jean. Thank you, Jean. Thank you, Jean. Thank you, Jean. Thank you, Jean. Thank you, Jean. Thank you, Jean. Thank you, Jean. Thank you, Jean. Thank you, Jean. Thank you, Jean. Thank you, Jean. Thank you, Jean. Thank you, Jean. Thank you, Jean. Thank you, Jean. Thank you, Jean. Thank you, Jean. Thank you, Jean. Thank you, Jean. Thank you, Jean. Thank you, Jean. Thank you, Jean. Thank you, Jean. Thank you, Jean. Thank you, Jean. I brig passou in today.