Metrics a Farm Equipment Dealer Needs to Watch: 2013 Dealership of the Year Lake County Intl
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vE0sW__XhYw
Science & Technology
 The biggest thing that PFW offers the market is an expertise in the dealership itself. So it's really not so much that we're gearheads and involved in the software and technology specialists as much as we're interested in how we can use technology and how we can exploit technology to make things work better in the dealership. Music Our daily cash positions, you know, I truly believe that cash is king in our ability to function and have the resources to take advantage of buying opportunities and paying for equipment at the right time. Having, monitoring our cash flow is huge. Inventory management, clearly managing our used equipment is probably one of the largest things. We like to turn our used equipment three times and when we've been able to trade for some more of this big equipment, sometimes getting rid of that used equipment is a real challenge. I've always said that we don't like to sell any more new combines than we can get rid of the used in the same season because they devalue so much within that season. If we don't get rid of them in the same year that we trade for them, there goes our profit. So I think that's very, very important. Yeah, you know, I have to agree. I think the used inventory, managing your parts, your turns is important. Ordering at specific times of the year for parts and getting your best discounts is really important. And to have a service manager that is up on all of the proper ordering procedures and even a service manager that knows the best time to place orders for quarterly orders and to put those on orders that will get the best discounts through the Case IH is really important. And managing the used inventory again though, I mean, being able to have a place to go with that combine, that tractor is getting important because of the dollar amounts that you're putting into some of these used pieces. So let's question about what they're doing is a for and Mortal Heifег Lee, so we have their time to get for and out about this January, and we have been able to keep you with ending that bull of the given Pour, meanwhile we have dough ganz pro clear, using Blade Anders and extent. So thank you for that. We, as bury his estate company on all of the customers being able to keep out the bridge,, now in quantity is 1,000 knot and the time weить is and the armor thereacz Expedition Man philosophy is your worst new purpose. Because we仍 Through the number and the security line lines are still algum technology, I think it's so important as sort of matter to the point that we look at you and are愚 PHILIs... . Next, are the only for now andまぁ pursuing the team as we are used to.بي找 anайyypps.