Agriculture form 4management practices in rearing systeams lesson 12
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VF0fhjk54f4
Education
 Hello viewers, welcome to Elim TV, a station where you watch, interact and also learn. Your teacher today is Mr. Wanyoike, an agriculture teacher. In today's lesson, we are informed for lesson 12. And the topic is pottery production and the subtopic is routine management practices in pottery. On to the lesson objectives. By the end of this lesson, you should be able to explain the various routine management practices in pottery. Number two, methods used in identifying a good layer. The routine management practices in pottery include number one, feeding. And number two, control of diseases. And the disease that you are supposed to control, you are supposed to control Gumboro. Then we have Newcastle and you have fall typhoid. And number three, we have control of parasite using appropriate method. You can do dusting. Also, you can use a dust bath. And as the dust bath, dusting, and also the warmers so that you can get rid of the worms. Then we'll go to the control of parasite. And the control of parasite, you have the dusting, as I've said. Then we have warmers. Number four, we'll go to egg collection. That is another control management practices that is supposed to be carried out during pottery production. You are supposed to regularly collect the egg so that you can control the vices of egg eating. Then the perpetual egg eater and the perpetual carnivals are supposed to be debicked. This is the process, as I explained in the previous lesson, of cutting short some section of the upper peak to control the egg eating vices and also cannibalizing. Curling is also another one. Curling is also another one. Curling is also another one. Curling is also another one. How do we know a poor layer and a good layer? How do we differentiate? A poor layer is the one that allows only one egg in between the pelvic bone. A good layer should allow two to three fingers. That is it. Then methods used to identify good layer and poor layer. As you can see, the first one is observation of physical trait of the bird. For example, the beak, those which have yellow beak, poor ears and therefore they are supposed to be eliminated. Then we have trap nesting method. In the trap nesting method, you can identify which bird is a good and which bird is bad. In the trap nesting method, you put a nest where the bird goes to lay and upon laying it is trapped there. And therefore you mark it. Then you remove it. Then next time another bird is trapped and marked. After several occasions, you will find that there are a few birds which will remain unmarked, meaning that those birds which will not have any mark, meaning that they are all poor layers or they don't are the eggs. Then characteristic of a good layer, we have coms and a large, warm, waxy and red. Number two, eyes are bright, orange and the bird is very, very alert. Then number three, vent is oval, moist, red and active. Number four, temperament. They are alert and active. Then beaks is pale. Then the space between the keel and the pelvic bone or guido should allow two to three fingers. Then broodiness is rare. For those good layers, they rarely come broody. Then we have the space between the pelvic and guido. You can see in the diagram there for a good layer, there is a wider space. And for a non-layer, there is a smaller space. And also you can see the finger, one finger, that is for a non-layer. Then we have three fingers for a good layer. Then the three fingers are supposed to fit exactly in between that space. Then we go to the images of coms and watus for a good layer. You can see these are good layers. Then we have color of shanks. You can see this one. The shanks are red for a good layer. And those that are yellow is for a pua or non-layer. Then non-brude and broody hen. You can see the appearance of a non-brude. And the broody, you can see it in the second image. And you can see even in that image, we have a broody hen there. And then these are a continuation of good layers. You can see them, the diagrams. And we have come to the end of today's lesson. And the following questions are supposed to be answered by you. Number one, explain any two methods used to identify a good layer. And number two, discuss the routine management practices in a potter. For reference, you can refer to secondary agriculture students book 4. And the publisher is the Kenya literature bureau. For more information, you can contact us through the following addresses as well illustrated and displayed for you. Thank you for joining me in today's lesson. Until next lesson, bye bye.