HYDROPONIC Farming at Home | Hydroponic Growing System for Beginners
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vfz-26NS-wk
Education
 Hi! Welcome to Discover Agriculture YouTube channel. Nowadays hydroponics is becoming more popular and people think of growing plants hydroponically. As a beginner, if you're confused about this system, no worries, now we will show some best hydroponics system kits available online. Watch this full video and if you're interested to buy, check out the buying links in the video description. 1. Pine Fresh Hydroponics Kit for Home The pro-indoor NFT hydroponics system with grow lights for growing 120 leafy greens. Features of this kit are The system comes with an inbuilt grow lighting system that enables growing plants even in places with no sunlight. This uses the shallow floor technique, SFT, that allows the roots to continue receiving water and nutrients even in the event of a complete electricity failure. The Tashi is an all-inclusive kit that comes with lights, net pots, clay bowls, a water pump, a reservoir, nutrients, and even seeds. The vertical orientation allows the system to grow three times the number of plants grown in soil in the same area. You can grow green leafy vegetables like lettuce, spinach, basil, mint, etc. and herbs like oregano, thyme, easily. This one is a bit costly, though it has good buyers' ratings and feedback. Some other pine fresh hydroponics kits are also available. You can check it in the video description. 2. Agro Experts 28 Plant a Hydroponic NFT Kit with pH and EC Meter Features of this system are Make better use of space and location No soil is needed, so no weeds. As hydroponics is water-saving, this saves up to 90% water. Better growth Few pests and diseases This is the customer's rating section. 3. Pine Fresh Hydroponics Kit for 20 Leafy Greens It consists of an all-inclusive kit from seed to harvest. The nutrient film technique, NFT, is used in this system. The Tashi Nano is an all-in-one kit that comes with lights, net pots, clay bowls, a water pump, a reservoir, nutrients, and even seeds. The instructions booklet is also provided to get you started. You can grow any green leafy vegetables, like lettuce, spinach, basil, mint, etc. Herbs, like oregano, thyme, etc. and salads easily. Customer reviews are as follows. This looks good, compared to the previous one. Thank you for watching. Like and share the video with your friends. And subscribe to our channel, Discover Agriculture.