How To Start Your Succession Journey With Your Accountant
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vG4YqRO-3Ac
Education
 Okay, well, my own short preamble will take a minute or two. So I'll just introduce myself and our speakers. Welcome everybody to this Farm Advisory Service webinar delivered by SAC Consulting this evening on the topic of succession planning. Thank you all for coming and we'll just, my name is Sasha Grierson. I'm a Principal Consultant with SAC Consulting and with me tonight we have the winning combination of accountant and bookkeeper, Andrew Coulter, who is a Chartered Accountant. He is also a Senior Consultant and the Area Manager for the Perth Office and he's also a Next Generation recently entered Livestock Farmer and we also have with us tonight Becca Henderson, who's a Farm Business Analyst in the Scottish Farm Business Survey team and an accredited bookkeeper with SAC Consulting and also a Livestock Farmer in her spare time. And so Becca and Andrew are going to talk to us tonight. They're probably going to speak for about 15 to 20 minutes each, leaving plenty of time for questions. And the purpose of this evening's webinar is really to help you have a better conversation with your accountant as you respond to the IA, the inheritance tax changes brought, the changes to the agricultural property relief and business property relief introduced to inheritance tax in the budget from last year. So just caveating that we are not going to be giving independent individual tax advice here. We're giving you an overview of the right questions to ask to get you ready. So without, as usual in these webinars, there is a Q&A function at the bottom of your screen. You can pop a question in there and then you can also put comments and thoughts into the chat function and maybe even do that immortal I'm asking for a friend question please. So no question is a silly question. Please ask questions and we'll, and Becca and Andrew and maybe even myself will do our best to answer them for you. So I'm going to hand over to Becca first. It's a natural place to start with the bookkeeping, the paperwork and how to get going. So Becca, over to you. Good evening everybody. I'm Becca Henderson. I've been with SEC for about four years now, mainly in the survey, but yeah, doing a bit of bookkeeping as well. So, so I was going to talk you guys through how you can make the best use of your time when you meet with your accountants. So we want to think what's your aim, what's your priority when it comes to succession planning. Everybody will have a different priority. Is it to provide an income for the present future generations? Or is it to keep the farm business as intact as possible to be able to pass it forward in one unit? Or is it to minimize the impact of tax? I think for most of us it's going to fall with all three of those being quite important. So when we're talking on succession planning, who do we need to bring in? We need to bring in everybody who's legally connected to the business, all partners, directors, and then, but we've got to have a think, who else do we want to involve? And at what point do we bring them in? Most farming successions will also have non-farming family members. And we've got to have a think about when do we bring them into the discussion? They won't have a say on maybe how the farm is going to be run, but it's likely that parents will want to leave something to siblings who haven't joined the family business as well. So it can make a difficult time in a family's life easier if the practicalities of these things have been worked out ahead of time. A report was issued jointly by Exeter University and the Dutch College in 2020 that established that one in four farmers who are currently farming haven't discussed their retirement or succession plans with anyone. So it is a discussion that maybe needs to be prompted in some cases. Also looking at who do we need to provide for? Can the farm realistically support everyone that would like to be involved in its future? Sometimes we'll have to be realistic here. It may not be able to provide the income to support everybody that wants to be involved. And other farms, is there a successor who's willing to take on the farm as it is? Or would the business need to adapt? Would they have different ideas about it? Who needs to be provided for with regards to income and housing? These are practical things that we need to look at. Is there a pension or a retirement arrangement to support the current generation if they wish to retire? Or is it assumed that the farm is going to provide? Right, so looking at farm values here. So if you've bought your farm in the last 10-15 years, you might think there's not going to be a huge amount of change. But if we focus on the little green boxes here on the graph that's come out of the Savills Farm Values paper from January 2024, if you look at 2008 and compared to 2003, there has been a 100% increase in this is pasture land. And also if we look at the little graph at the bottom, this is the average house prices, bottom ones being all properties, top ones being detached homes, which the majority of farmhouses are likely to fall into. The Savills Farm Land Market report, it has shown that there's been a 100% increase, where the Scottish Land Registry one has been showing a 40% increase in the value of a detached house. So we can see here that we're looking at an 83% increase in the value of a 200 acre farm in just 15 years. So it would be prudent to have a look at farm values in your area because they do vary quite drastically around the country and build a realistic value of what you think your farm and land value may be. We haven't given any value to sheds, livestock hand, anything like that, because this is too variable from farm to farm. But it's just to have a think that there could be a big jump from what you maybe paid 10 years ago, 10-15 years ago to where the value is now. So your fixed asset schedule, this is a comprehensive list of the assets that are either owned or part owned, say shared with another farm by the business. So this will include things like tractors, combines, cattle crushes, grain dryers, diesel tanks, GPS systems, tag readers. The idea here is that we want to keep this up to date, we want this to really reflect the value of the business. So have a think, when was your fixed asset schedule last looked at against the assets that are actually being held on farm? Your accountant will have a copy of your fixed asset schedule if you've moved practices recently, that is one of the items that should be passed on. It will contain everything that was purchased through the business, nothing that was leased because that doesn't belong to the business, but anything that has been bought by the business will appear on here. However, unless you have notified the accountant of every fixed asset, it might not be 100% accurate. So if you've had any farm pickups that have been scrapped, levellers that have fallen apart and are sitting at the side of a field, or you've maybe swapped an item of plant for something else, and that's not been recorded in the accounts. This might not all total a huge sum of money, but it is much easier for the accountants to make an accurate valuation of the business if all the data is completely up to date. So Andrew, if you could skip on to slide four now for me please. So we are going to have a little look at the partnership agreements for the business. So are your partnership agreements up to date? It might be talked about bringing a son or daughter into the business, but has this been actioned? Has this been put down officially and recorded? Does the partner agreement include all the individuals that it should? Have all these changes been actions with the relevant bodies? Are your solicitors? Are the accountants aware? Has it been recorded for tax purposes? Are all the individuals mentioned fully aware of what their position is within the business and what their share of the business is? Everybody that the agreement pertains to should ensure that they understand what the implications of this agreement are, what their responsibilities, liabilities, everything that falls to them. Especially if we are bringing a younger member of the family into the agreement, we should encourage them to seek independent advice on the agreement to make sure that they fully understand what they are signing their name to. So if you have any plans to change your partnership agreement in the future, it's well worth discussing this with your accountant ahead of a change, just in case the timings of the scale could be adapted, not adapted, but so that it could be implemented in the most effective way possible. And there is no standard partnership agreement when you compare it to other legal documents. It differs depending on who drew up the agreement. So what happens upon the death of a partner can vary from agreement to agreement. Some it is split between the remaining partners and others. They could be able to invite a new partner into the place of the deceased one with the agreement of the existing partners. It's just to make yourself aware of what happens within your agreement. So there's no right or wrong here. I'm not going to say that it should be one way or the other, but it's just to make yourselves aware of how the two align with each other and how it might pan out in the event that they are not, they do not have the same outcome. So if we could pop onto the next one, it's not just the farm that we need to know about if we are speaking to our accountant when it comes to inheritance tax planning. So all assets that are privately owned and not owned by the farm business, such as money that you would have savings, any art, property, any assets that are held abroad, these all form part of your estate for inheritance tax purposes. So the accountants will have factored in your no rate band and your residency band when they are looking to calculate your inheritance tax liability. So if you have personal assets, which will also count towards these allowances, your accountant will need to know about these. Do you have a will and is it up to date? So the first thing is to make sure you have a will. The study that we mentioned earlier had discovered that one in four farmers don't have a will. So another key point is, do you have a power of attorney? This is where a trusted individual will have the authority to act in your interest should you become unable to do so. There are different types of power of attorney and a solicitor would be able to help you set this up. In 2022, HSE reported that farming had an injury rate that was 3.7 times higher than the all industry average. So it's vital that us, that people working within this industry have a power of attorney created. Should an accident happen at such a life with such life changing consequences, this will obviously be a hugely distressing time for a family and the lengthy process that would need to be undertaken to obtain power of attorney after the individual has lost the capacity to grant it will create further anguish in an already very stressful time. The power of attorney provides security should the worst happen and know that somebody you trust can look after your interests if you're no longer able to. Does your will reflect your current situation? Have your circumstances changed? Are there more children, grandchildren, stepchildren? Has there been a separation? And have all these been amended in your will? And is your accountant aware of the arrangements of your will? Make sure that your accountant is. Any plans that they put in place need to align with your wishes that are contained within your will. And looking forward to pensions, the autumn budget announced that pensions would be brought within the scope of inheritance tax from April 2027. So, not all pensions are the same and they're not all treated the same. So, it's important to make yourself aware of what pensions you may have. From 2012, auto enrolment and a workplace pension became a requirement for employers. So, you may well have a pension that you're not aware of. And make sure that your accountant has the details for any pension savings that you have accrued so that they are able to factor this into any calculations that they are making with regards to inheritance tax. So, that is the points that I had. And I will pass over to Andrew now. Thank you, Andrew, for rescuing me after my IT failure. And I'll be able to chat to some of you at the end. Thanks. Thank you, Becca. That's great. And apologies for the screen sharing wobbles we got there in the end. I'm going to hand over to Andrew now to follow on and with the second part of the webinar presentation. And yeah, let's just see if there's any questions in the chat. Chat, I think we'll probably come to this at the end, if that's okay with the anonymous person who put that in. Okay, over to you, Andrew. Thank you. Perfect. Thank you very much. You can let me know when you see these slides. Yeah, that's it. Great. Thank you very much. Okay, good evening. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much for your time this evening. Sasha introduced me at the start. So, my name is Andrew Coulter. I'm a senior consultant, but I also am a chartered accountant by training and spent a number of years working in the industry, primarily with agricultural businesses throughout the Central Belt and Fife. So, that means within SAC Consulting, my role takes many forms as a general agricultural consultant, but also I'm responsible for our national bookkeeping service that we have, and I'm also responsible for developing a lot of the business work that consultants do around the organisation. It does mean that I get trotted out on occasion to cover topics like this, so hopefully I can present to you a bit of a helpful insight to some of the changes we saw to inheritance tax in the autumn budget. So, my slides this evening, they're not designed to give you all the solutions to those proposed changes, but what I'm really trying to do here is improve your understanding of these changes and how they might impact your business. So, use this information to have a more informed conversation with your own accountant and with your own lawyers. Focusing specifically on inheritance tax, agricultural property relief was introduced in the 70s. I think it was around 1975 agricultural property relief was introduced first. And from the early 1980s, it was updated and actually provided 100% relief on qualifying assets. So, really, this means that for over 40 years, farming businesses within the agricultural sector have been able to avail of passing on all of our farming assets without needing to consider the implications of inheritance tax, which has been really beneficial for both succession planning and for business continuity. That has now changed. It was detailed out in the autumn budget that from April 2026, there will be a cap on the amount of agricultural property relief and business property relief that is available. So, it means now that full relief will still be available on the first million pound of combined business and agricultural assets, but for assets over that one million pound threshold, inheritance tax will be applied. Now, as a concession, HMRC announced, or sorry, the government announced that inheritance tax would be applied at 50% of the full rate. Given that the full rate of inheritance tax is 20%, it means that all of your business assets that are over one million pounds in value could potentially be exposed to up to a 20% tax when you die. So, in really simple terms, if you have a business with a value of three million pounds, the first million pounds will get up to a million pounds of relief, but for the remaining two million pounds, there's a potential inheritance tax exposure there of 400,000 pounds. A point I will make here at the start, and I will make it a couple of times as we go through. Inheritance tax is a personal tax on your personal share of assets. It is not a business tax that is paid by your business. So, therefore, the trading structure of your business will have implications on this. The ownership of assets will have implications on what these tax changes mean for you as well. To be honest, the devil is going to be in the detail, which we don't have yet, but this is something that has potentially significant implications for the industry as a lot of farms at this stage are valued at well over a million pounds. Some data from the Scottish Farm Business Survey actually stated that over 40% of farms within the Scottish Farm Business Survey will be impacted by the taxation changes which have been presented. The impact on land values is probably still quite unclear, but I would say it's reassuring that Scottish land values, even though they've climbed in recent years, still show comparative good value to other parts of the UK. But at the same time, I think that this might need to spark conversations around succession and probably more efficient structuring of assets for tax purposes. So before I go on to give a slightly more detailed example, I wanted to cover some of the key inheritance tax reliefs that we currently rely on within the agricultural industry. So the first one is the nil rate band. So this is the, so the nil rate band has been in place for a long time, but effectively it means that any individual can pass on £325,000 of assets without paying any inheritance tax at all. That's not related to being in a trade. Any individual in the UK can do that. Yet available to all individuals and can be set against all asset types. A key point to note about this first relief is that if you don't use it when you die, any unused proportion of that band is then transferable to your surviving spouse. So if a husband and wife, so in the scenario of a husband and wife, if a husband dies first and he doesn't use any of his nil rate band, that would mean the wife would be able to pass on £650,000 to the next generation. It's also important to note that any transfers between a spouse or with a civil partner are outside the scope of inheritance tax and can be passed freely no matter how many assets you're passing across. A second relief, which is also available to all individuals within the UK, is the residence nil rate band. So for a qualifying residence that you own and that you live in, there's £175,000 of relief available to pass on your property, provided it is to direct descendants. If the total value of your personal estate is worth over £2,000,000, the amount of relief that is available starts to taper off. So for every £2 over that £2,000,000 mark, you lose £1 of the relief. So at the stage where you get to £350,000 over the £2,000,000, that relief would be gone. Again, just like the nil rate band, any unused proportion of that rate band is available to the surviving spouse. So if all assets are passed from the husband to the wife upon death, the wife would then be able to avail of both the nil rate band and the residence nil rate band whenever she passes away. So the third one, and the key one we're really here to consider, is agricultural property relief and business property relief. Now this applies on qualifying business assets, and relief is obtained either at 50% or 100%. In a traditional farming sense, we generally see that being applied at 100% value on business assets. So that includes your land, it includes your livestock value, it includes your plant machinery, it's covering all your business assets. So this is the key change. That's now limited to the first £1,000,000 of combined agricultural and business assets. An important point I wanted to note here, because I have forgot to mention it in previous presentations that I've given, under the current proposals, which are in draft, this £1,000,000 allowance is currently not transferable between spouses. So if we had a husband and wife in a farming partnership, if the husband decided to pass all of the assets to his wife when he died in his will, it would mean that when the wife passes away, she wouldn't inherit his £1,000,000 relief. She would only have £1,000,000 of agriculture and property relief herself. She wouldn't end up with two. So that's an important thing to note. That is something that I think a lot of people in the accountancy industry think may have been an oversight and might expect to change. But as it stands, that is what the rules say as they are. So to give a slightly more detailed example, I have taken a number of farming scenarios and I've done, and I've actually run them twice. So for my first example, I'm assuming that we have a husband and wife farming partnership. There's a complete equal split of assets. Both names are on the business 50-50. Both names are on the title deeds of the land 50-50. And then I've run it a second time for a sole trade farmer just to sort of show the differences that that can make in terms of spreading the ownership of these assets. So for the following examples that you can hopefully see on the screen, I've made a number of assumptions here. I've assumed that any farmhouse is owned. I've assumed that all the assets qualify for agricultural property relief or business property relief where it's applicable. I've also assumed bare land has a value of about 7,000 pounds per acre. Obviously that can vary significantly depending on where you are and what sort of land you're farming. I've not really taken into account any business stock or cash. I've not considered any other personal assets that may be held outside the partnership. I'm assuming all the reliefs can be used here as well. So that's just a few things to be aware of. So if we start with the first example, which is a 100-acre farm, a 7,000 pounds an acre, that gives us a land value, a bare land value of 0.7 million. We also have the farmhouse that this husband and wife live in. I've given that a value of 450,000 pounds. Again, that can vary quite a lot. I've also given another value for farm buildings and equipment. So for the sheds, the steading, the plant machinery that would be needed to run that sort of farm. Again, these are some fairly broad assumptions I've made coming up with these numbers. But you can see here with a farm of just 100 acres, I've already got to a total business value of 1.45 million. Now we have a number of reliefs we can apply. So we start with the nil rate band, which I talked about first. Every individual in the UK can get. That gives us 325,000 pounds each. So we double that up, we get to 650,000 pounds. We also have the residence nil rate band because the house is owned and they live in it themselves. So if we double up because we have an allowance for husband and also an allowance for a wife, that gets us another 350,000 pounds. We also then have agricultural property relief. Now, because the husband and wife are both farming together in the business, they're both business members, there is joint ownership of those assets. They both get up to 1 million pounds of relief available. So the maximum relief we could get for this couple would be 2 million pounds. The value of the reliefs we have here added together significantly outstrip the value of the estate that we've started with. So actually in this scenario, there'll be absolutely no tax to pay. And the same for the 200 acre farm as well. We get up to a value of 2.45 million, but we have 3 million of relief available. So there's no issue there. The issues start to appear once we get to a larger farm of 500 acres, which would not be unusual to see in many areas in Scotland. So the land value kept at that 7,000 pounds per acre increases. We have a significant amount of farm buildings and equipment to run a business of that size and scale. So actually we've got here to a value of nearly 5.5 million pounds. Now the nil rate band is available to everyone. But as I pointed out in the previous slide, if your personal estate is worth over 2 million pounds, the residence nil rate band starts to taper off. So in this case, each of the partners has a value, has a personal estate of over 2.5 million pounds. So that relief is now gone at that level. But we still have the agricultural or business property relief of a million pounds each. So you can see here actually on a 500 acre farm that's worth nearly 5.5 million, there's potentially nearly 3 million pounds of a taxable estate that could be exposed to inheritance tax. If we take that 2.8 million value and times it by 20%, there could be, worst case scenario, over half a million pounds of inheritance tax liability, which would due to be paid after both partners have passed away. Again, for a thousand acre farm, we see this start to ramp up just as the total value of the estate increases, the total exposure to inheritance tax, potential exposure increases quite significantly. So you can see here that we're talking about some quite big numbers. To take these four farm sizes again, I want to show you what would happen if this business was actually just run as a sole trade. Now this happens quite a lot. I have absolutely nothing against a sole trade at all, but it just shows because we only have one set of reliefs available, the potential exposure to inheritance tax could be much greater. So our 100 acre farm is still completely covered by the reliefs. There's 1.5 million pounds of reliefs available. So 100 acre farm would have no exposure. But on a 200 acre farm, we start having exposure and on a 500 and a thousand acre farm, these exposures are much greater than they were for the partnership. So just to pull these all together, because I'm not going to expect you to remember those numbers off the top of your head, you can see here the final two columns. Example one was from the partnership and that was the numbers they had in the first slide. A 500 acre farm had a potential inheritance tax liability of 560,000 pounds, whereas a sole trader may have a potential liability of up to 825,000 pounds in this specific scenario. So this demonstrates the advantage of diluting asset ownership and it becomes quite apparent here as multiple sets of reliefs become available. Because as I said earlier on the presentation, inheritance tax is a personal tax of your share, of your personal share of assets. It's not a business tax that's paid by the business. It's paid by you and your estate as an individual once you pass away. So in all of these scenarios we can see that there's potential exposure to inheritance tax. So the question then becomes how can this be afforded really? So if I stick with the example that I gave you of the husband and wife farming partnership, we have a potential inheritance tax liability on the 500 acre farm of 560,000 pounds whereas a sole trader had up to 825,000 pounds. That's quite significant. Again, to use farm business survey data, one of the problems that we have in the agricultural industry and I think why we've seen so much noise out of agriculture rather than other sectors which are also affected by the limit on business property relief is the return on capital that we see in agriculture for the amount of money invested, the return on that capital, the profits that we make from that every year. So using farm business survey data I was able to see that a 1% return on investment would be higher than average. So again, some really broad brush assumptions here. If we have that 500 acre farm which had a value of about 5.5 million pounds, we could assume that a 50,000 pounds profit for the year would be in line with the farm business survey data. So actually, if we have a potential inheritance tax bill at the smaller end of 560,000 pounds, it really shows that in many cases paying the tax out of profits would be unaffordable really for the average farming business. So how do we do this? How do we go about this? I've presented four different options on the screen and I'll talk through each of these in turn. The first option is that you might sell land. That has been discussed as a possibility in many cases and I think we will see that for some scenarios. One thing to watch out if you're selling land is that there may potentially be a capital gains tax exposure if a farm is owned in multiple names. So if a farm is inherited upon death, you would inherit the capital gains tax base cost of the person you've obtained it from. So their share that's sold wouldn't necessarily incur a capital gains tax charge. But if there's another partner or another name on that, there's potentially capital gains tax to pay on their share of the land that's being sold. But I'll touch on that again in my later slides. Another issue with selling land is that it might actually impact the earnings potential of that farm going forward as well. So that's something to consider. Another option might be to pay in installments. HMRC give you the option to pay over 10 years. Again, to pay a £560,000 bill over 10 years might be difficult out of profits unless there's other funds available there. You might try and go and seek funding from a bank but that might be a difficult conversation to be able to borrow such large sums of money purely to pay down tax bills rather than for growth or for future earnings potential. A third option is life insurance. This is one that will suit some scenarios but not all. As I've said in the slide there, quotes are going to vary very dramatically based on the type of insurance that you go for, what age you are, what your health status is. There are three main types of life insurance cover. The whole of life cover which does what it says in the tin that covers you for your whole life no matter how long you live. That's the most expensive. There is a cover called a gift intervivas cover which would cover a gift and a seven-year rule which I'll come on to or the most common one is a level term cover where you could take out an insurance policy for 10 years or 20 years, those sorts of things. In some scenarios that might be helpful. If that's something you're considering doing, speak to an investment advisor and get proper advice on that front. The fourth option that we might consider and often get suggested to me as an easy get a GL free card is we'll just give the assets away before we die. We'll just pass them on now. That can work well but there are a number of things that you need to consider if you want to gift assets away to the next generation or whoever it is to. So the first one that we really need to think about is what's known as the seven year rule. So in basic terms, if you give away assets, you need to survive for seven years before it is no longer considered as part of your estate for inheritance tax purposes. So no tax is due on any gifts if you live for more than seven years after gifting them. So that can work quite well. The full rate of inheritance tax is 40%. We need to live for seven years for it to fall out of the scope but provided you live more than three years the amount of inheritance tax exposure would start to reduce. So there's a sliding scale every year from three years to seven where it drops from 40% to 32 to 26. It drops down by 8% every year until we get to year number seven. So actually what you might find is that if assets are gifted away perhaps now at this stage but the person who gifted them was to die within two to three years there might not actually be any advantage from an inheritance tax point of view. There are specific rules in place to ensure that gifts that are made are a genuine gift from one party to the other. If they're not a genuine gift they would be called gift with reservation of benefit. Now what do I mean by that? What would an example be? So an example would be if you were to gift a farm to your children but you continue to live in the farmhouse you continued to make day-to-day management decisions you continue to take a share of the profit it's fairly apparent in that scenario that you're retaining a benefit from those assets even though you've gifted them away on paper. So if that's the case HMRC would still consider them to be part of your estate when you die regardless of how long ago the gift was made. It's not to say that that doesn't work and there are ways that this can be set up so that could include things like if you want to stay in the farmhouse you may need to pay some form of rent to whoever you're gifted to rather than taking a profit share from the business you might have to take a fixed salary for the work that you're doing if you're no longer responsible for that and if you have truly gifted them away. So if you are gifting assets you need to be quite careful that it is a genuine gift that is effective for inheritance tax purposes so seek advice on that. The last point I wanted to note on gifting assets is around capital gains tax on farm transfers. We're in a strange situation with the UK tax environment that farmers are effectively incentivised to hold on to their land to death. That's for a number of reasons. That is because full agricultural property relief is available upon death although that will also cover lifetime gifts but secondly if you transfer a farm to the next generation or whoever it may be when you die the person who receives the assets gets an uplift in the capital gains tax base cost to current market value. That means that if they were to turn around and sell it in 12 months time their capital gains tax exposure would effectively be the difference between the value when they inherited it and the value when they sold it which might be quite small if that's a short time frame. However if you transfer that land to the next generation or to the next recipient while you were alive that person will also inherit your base cost. Now your base cost is the capital gains tax value that you inherited it at or that you purchased it at which may have been 30, 40, 50, 60 years ago so actually that value might be small. If the next person plans to continue farming not necessarily a problem but if there's ever a chance that they might sell it they might have a much larger exposure to capital gains tax if they sell it. Also one thing to note is that if you transfer assets when you were alive you will only be able to claim some of these holdover reliefs on qualifying assets. Assets that wouldn't be covered would include things like rental properties, properties that are let out so actually that may result in a tax charge effectively an immediate tax charge on the transfer of those assets. So just to be aware. So a few other considerations that you need to think about. To qualify for agricultural property relief or business property relief in the first place you need to have owned those assets if you're farming them yourself for at least two years to be able to qualify for the relief. That's not unchanged that's always been the case. So actually it means if you're transferring assets let's say to the next generation there might be a period where there's no relief at all available through agricultural property relief and you might have a full exposure there so that's just something to be aware of. If you're passing to somebody who's much younger generally it's the case that we're willing to accept that risk but it's something to be aware of. Again with a lifetime gift there's rules there to ensure that it is a genuine gift and that you don't continue to benefit from it otherwise it would still be considered as part of your taxable estate. Bec has mentioned wills and powers of attorney already and I think that's fundamentally important here and that's really something we need to consider here. Ultimately we can plan to minimise our tax burden but what we're really trying to do is plan for the succession and the continuation of our business after we're gone and that's a really difficult thing to do but having those conversations with your spouse, having those conversations with the people who are going to take over is the most important thing you can do for your business and getting those wills and powers of attorney in place that reflect what you want to happen is critically important. I don't really care if you don't take anything else away from the presentation this evening but if that's something you do to get wills and powers of attorney in place I think we can be quite pleased with the job we've done. Partnership agreements again something to review and make sure you know what it says. So again a few final points because I appreciate that our time is marching on. A few actions that you can take here. It may be an appropriate time to consider your trading structure. Again inheritance tax is a personal tax that's levied on your personal assets and your share of the business assets. So spreading the ownership of those assets across a greater number of partners in a business reduces your potential inheritance tax exposure. But ensure that you're doing those for the right reasons that fits in with your succession plan not just adding people because you think it'll avoid tax. Because once those assets are spread out and gifted out you don't own them anymore and you lose control of those. So ensure it's done for the right reasons to the right people who will be continuing your business if that's the path your business takes. Use the opportunity to consider succession planning. Where do you want your business to go after it's been passed on? Again gifting of assets where it's appropriate provided the gift is made more than three years before death the exposure to inheritance tax is reduced and if you survive more than seven years the gifted assets will be fully outside the scope of inheritance tax. That not only applies to farming assets but also covers personal assets like cash reserves that you might have or other investments that's something I'm thinking about. There are anti-avoidance rules in place so at the same time of announcing these changes the government announced what's called anti- forestalling rules which are basically anti-avoidance measures which means if you gift the assets today but you die within seven years that one million limit will still apply so seek advice if you're considering gifting assets. Make sure you have a will make sure you have a power of attorney ultimately we can't really plan for the unexpected death but get these in place if you don't have them already and ensure you keep them up to date. At the end of the day these changes really just necessities about careful planning or professional advice to navigate effectively. Make sure you speak to an advisor that understands agriculture and quite often I speak to people who deal with accountants and solicitors that may be used for a long time that aren't agricultural specific. There are a number of things here that are specific to agriculture that you need to be aware of to make sure that you're getting sound advice from trusted advisors ultimately. Thank you very much for your patience with us this evening. We do have time for some questions so I hope Sasha will come back on and hopefully field some of those questions to us. We will get these slides passed around to everyone who's attended this evening. Don't worry about that we'll get those passed around and our contact details available if you need any further support or advice from us. Thank you very much. That's brilliant. Thank you so much Andrew. That's a really comprehensive whiz around the changes that have come into place since the October budget. I certainly learned a couple of things about sole trader holding assets etc. There's loads to take away from tonight. We do have some questions. We will get slides sent around. The first question I'm going to ask, does a partnership agreement have to be written by a solicitor or is it sufficient to have the partnership division of business known by the accountant only? I'm going to put that one to Andrew Becker. Who wants to take that one? I'm happy to take that. The short answer is no. if Sasha and I decided to leave SEC Consulting and set up our own partnership this evening, we could do and we could start trading tomorrow. You don't have to have a formal agreement in place. A partnership can be quite informal because it's unincorporated. It's not a trading structure. It's very loose. It's very fluid. Actually, your partnership agreement can be really bespoke to you. Becker made a good point that actually there isn't a standard template for partnership agreements. So knowing what you're saying is really important. So no, it doesn't have to be there. But I would caveat that by saying that partnership agreements are really important legal documents and it's good to have those in place. They're good for a number of reasons. They set out your roles and responsibilities as a partner. They set out what happens in the event of a change. So you want to bring a partner into the business or somebody dies, as Becca pointed out already. Also, they list out what happens if the worst were to happen. And let's say there's a breakdown in communication or whatever that might be. It just covers everyone. It gives peace of mind. Personally, I think they're really important legal documents. Quite often your partnership agreement will say that in case of death the will takes precedence. But I would say they don't have to be done, but they should be done. Thank you, Andrew. I would just follow on from that and it's a sort of general point. It's worth investing some money in professional fees to get your succession planning and that includes advisory fees for a trusted advisor to help keep the conversations on track before you go to your accountant and solicitor. And the reason really when you think about it, you're doing a once in a generation hand on of the biggest asset in your farming business. You wouldn't hesitate to invest money repairing your tractor or buying replacement heifers. So actually a relatively small amount of money paid to professionals to get the right advice, the right bits of paper in the right place is a small price to pay to save what can be quite considerable sums as Andrew's examples show. So the next thing I would say, the next question is if the farm, and this speaks to the sole trader versus total assets question, if the farm is owned by an individual but the business, which is a partnership, owns the assets, i.e. machinery and stock, you are taxed on it all. And Andrew, Becca, who would like to take that one? I'm happy to jump in again there. That's quite a common one we see, that's a really good question. What I saw quite a lot in practice was that businesses may trade as a partnership but the land is owned by individuals. So let's say perhaps mum and dad own the land or one person owns the land but then there's a partnership of more people in that. It comes back to that fundamental point, inheritance tax is a personal tax of your personal assets and your personal share of the business assets. So actually, if the farm is owned by an individual, it falls under their estate when they die. If you're a partner in the business, the only assets that would be considered would be your share of those business assets. So that would exclude the land but it would cover the livestock, the machinery, all those sorts of things. So if the land's owned personally, that happens quite a lot, only the individual who owns it would potentially be exposed to tax on that. But for the rest of the business assets, they would be split between the partners in line with the partnership agreement. Okay, thanks very much. Here's an interesting one. I think it's probably our last question, although we may have time for one more. Why do banks insisting on closing down partnership business accounts when one partner dies but there are still two or more living partners? Hmm, I'm not too sure whether we can answer for the banking industry. Andrew or Becker, does anyone have any experience with that? I think that's probably an anecdotal one. I don't know. I don't know why. I suspect it's got something to do with changing legal, changing legal, the legal ownership of the bank account. But actually, again, it's worth being aware of what your partnership, again, just to pick up on a point that Becca made earlier, knowing what happens when someone dies in your partnership. Let's say you've got two partners in a business and one of them dies. It may be the case that the partnership ceases to exist at that point, in which case the bank account would need to change, or it may be that you're able to bring in another partner, all these sorts of things. I've seen a number of different variations of that, so knowing what your agreement says is quite important. Okay. Are there any other questions in the chat or in the Q&A box? I think for me, I think what's coming through loud and clear here is that there are lots of things you can do to get ready for that conversation with the accountant. There's lots of thinking that you can do and lots of documents that you can get in place. There's lots of conversations you can have to try and understand what it is you want to do before you go to the professionals. And I think that's quite important. If I can emphasize one thing here, Andrew talked about a will and a power of attorney. Becca talked about a will and a power of attorney. In many ways, you want to try and have the succession planning conversation before you make the will, but actually not having a will at all is really not great. You need to get a will, but the power of attorney is really critical. Also, having these conversations isn't easy. Nobody likes to talk about death and money with your loved ones. This is not easy. No one's pretending it is. Okay, I've got one or two very quick questions. Business owner is 81 and not in good health. Is there anything he can do to avoid an IHT problem? Gosh, I think that's quite a specific question. It probably is quite a specific question. What I would say is that the changes that we have seen are effectively in their draft format. So they are included in the autumn budget, which came out at the end of October, but we don't really have the detail yet. We only got a couple of pages in that budget document. There will be a technical consultation on the changes to inheritance tax in the next couple of months, and we will see the draft legislation, the full draft legislation coming out in the summertime. So there is time for scrutiny over these matters in Parliament, and there is a lot of pressure being put on by a number of different groups on the government about these changes. So it's coming from the farming unions, who are really united and are getting a lot of support from farmers in the ground. Some supermarkets have come out in support. Also the accountancy industry have come out, and there was a group of 20 of the largest rural accountants in the UK banded together and wrote a report that came out last week talking about some of these changes and the impact potentially on people who are perhaps too old or not in good enough health to be able to make these changes, maybe unfairly affected. These points are being raised at government level, so whether the changes are made in these points, we need to wait and see. We'll probably know more over the course of the spring and early summer. That's usually how long these things take. So watch this space, I'm certain, and the Farm Advisory Service will be giving you an update on this. And lastly, Becca, have you got any comment on the last point? Can you add in partners with no liability? I think I know the answer to this one. As far as I'm aware, no, you can't. They're always going to have some liability, otherwise they're not really connected to the business. Exactly. So on that note, yes, with ownership comes responsibility and clearly the risk of inheritance tax. The legal term for a partnership is that it gets thrown around as joint and several liability. So if you join a partnership, you're jointly responsible for that partnership and its debts with all of the other partners, but you're also severally, which means personally responsible. So every partner in a partnership, yes, is jointly responsible for their share, but if something went wrong, they are also personally responsible for all of the debts of that business. So it's something to be aware of. Something to be aware of, yes. And also in the succession planning conversations where you're aiming for fair, not equal. Definitely. Okay, that's the end of our time. We won't keep you any longer. This recording will be available and the slideshows will also be sent out to all the people who've signed up for this webinar. So thank you very much for coming and on behalf of the Farm Advisory Service, I'll say goodnight. Thank you.