January and Annual Crop Production and WASDE ASB Briefing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vgAyQ31Mi5U
Science & Technology
 48, lowest production since 52, lowest other hay production since 1988. So tough conditions for hay. The season hops, you can see there our final production, 101 million pounds there. That's down 1224% from last year. We had the second highest acres on record, but we had a record low yield this year. And so we actually ended up with a pretty significant dip in production for hops this year. And then lentils, as I mentioned with some of the other crops rebound low yield levels last year, giving us a pretty sharp increase in production for this season. I don't think we're advancing there. So if you follow along in your slides in front of you. Mustard seeds next up. Record high planted and harvested acres. Second highest production on record for mustard seed. Mustard is actually a very drought tolerant crop. And so it became very attractive this year as well. Peanut brush, and you can see there, finished the season down 12.5% from last year's crop. We did have the third highest yield on record. And even though we're down 12.5% on production, it's still the seventh highest peanut production on record. Peppermint, you can see a pretty sharp decrease in acres driving that production down this year. Potatoes. Potatoes. You can see a pretty sharp increase in the year. Potatoes. You can see declines in acres and yield this season for that crop. Actually the lowest potato production since 1989. And then proso mellet, big declines there across both acreage and yield. So overall much smaller crop this season. There we go. Let me go. Let me go. Rapeseed. Kind of the same story I repeat on a lot of these crops, right? So overall, if we think about production down 14.3% there. Rice. You can see that drop also down this year, mainly due to the acreage declines, although yields were off from last year as well. Overall, we did have the tenth highest yield on record. But again, with reduced acres, you're going to have reduced production. California did have their lowest planted acreage. Since 1958. Of course, that's water issues out there. Not a big surprise. Safflower, third lowest planted acres on record. Sorghum, big drop there. But again, significant portion of that in Texas and Kansas. Both experiencing severe drought conditions this year. In fact, record low planted and harvested acres in Texas this year. And then spearmint, like some of the other drops down here over here. And rounding out the last crop report in that report, you can see our sugar crops, sugar beets. Relatively modest changes from our previous forecast there. But you can see we're looking at 32.6 million tons there. That's down 2.7% from that previous forecast, 11.4% below last year. Sugar cane, actually a little bit better than we had previously forecast. So you can see overall. We measured a crop 5.6% larger than last season. Sunflowers again bouncing back from low levels last year. And then tobacco last year. We measured in production for 2022. That is our second lowest harvested area. On record for tobacco we have talked about that year after year. And recently the crop just continues to decline. So with that said, let's shift gears a little bit. with that said, let's shift gears a little bit and let's talk about 2023. We need to have our first look after 2023. When are we acres coming out today as well? And you can see we are estimating 36, well actually 37, around 37 million acres. That is up 11.1 percent from what was planted last season. If we look at that graphically over the recent seasons, you can see actually a fairly sharp rebound over the last couple of seasons compared to where we had been heading in recent years. In fact, that is the highest acreage since 2016. Prices have been strong and so farmers have responded. If we look at that on a state-by-state basis, you can see increases across most of the growing area. Big increase in Texas. You can see at 26.4 percent. Of course, they abandoned a lot of cotton and so they got open ground to plant winter wheat this year. Overall, increasing our unchanged acreage of 30 at the 35 estimating states. So a big rebound there. But yet a few more acres than folks were expecting. So you can see here again that NASS estimate a little bit higher than most of the pre-published expectations. But sometimes with big increases in acreage, it can be a little hard for folks to get a handle on exactly how large that increase might be. So once again, we're going to shift gears. And now we're going to talk about green stocks. We'll start things off with all wheat stocks because this is our second quarter for the all wheat stocks. You can see as of December the 1st, 1.28 billion bushels stored. That is down 7 percent or 97 million bushels from what was stored at the same time last year. You can see the on-farm stocks actually up sharply year over year, but the on-farm stocks down nearly 17 percent from the same time last year. We take a look at this graph, the way this chart is laid out. Each vertical bar represents the beginning supply for each crop season. You can see the four horizontal lines representing the quarterly stocks estimates. As I mentioned, second quarter for all wheat. So that orange line does represent the December 1 stock. That's the lowest December stocks of 2007. Our beginning supply was down 5.7 percent from the previous year. Looking at our September to November disappearance, 498 million bushels is actually up 25.6 percent from the same time period a year earlier. But with that said, it is a little bit lower than most of the folks were expecting. So you can see kind of how that compares with the other three expectations here. Next, we'll move on to the corn stock. The beginning stock, the third quarter stocks for corn. You can see as of December the 1st, 10.8 billion bushels stored. That's down 7.1 percent or 832 million bushels. We're all stored at the same time a year earlier. Similar declines for both on-farm and off-farm year over year. Similar graphic to what I showed you for all wheat. Here you can see the beginning supply at 15.1 billion bushels was down 7.4 percent from the previous season in our September to November disappearance. 4.3 billion bushels was actually down 7.9 percent from the same time a year earlier. A little bit lower toward the lower end of the expectations here. But again, I mentioned we talk about production here. With production coming in a bit lower than what folks were expecting, it kind of makes sense. The stocks would be a bit lower than folks were expecting as well. I think overall it kind of ties back together and fits pretty well with the balance sheet. But also, the market has to say that. His turn. We'll move on to soybeans for now though. 3.02 billion bushels stored as of December the 1st for soybeans. That's down 3.6 percent or 114 million bushels year over year. And again, you can see on and off-farm both down in similar fashion year over year. And as we look at the graphic for the soybeans, here you can see that beginning supply was down 3.6 percent year over year in our September to November disappearance for soybeans. 1.53 billion bushels. That was down 3.6 from the same time a year earlier. Thankfully, there's one person that had a much lower published expectation than the other. You can see we fall right in the range, Seth. 1.53 billion bushels. That was the expectation for the soybean. Surely not a surprise there, right? But nonetheless, a little bit lower than those folks were expecting. But again, we reduced the production a bit more than folks were expecting. So I think it makes sense that they would be a bit higher on the stocks expectation as well. Next, we'll take a quick look at the rough rice stock that was up December the 1st. Here you can see off 16.7 percent from the same time a year earlier. Decline from both on and off-farm there as well. As we look at things for rice stock, the 193.99 wave was our beginning supply. It was down pretty sharply from a year earlier. Our disappearance during the last quarter was actually low a year earlier. But again, a big drop in the beans and supply. They even do a drop in stocks during the last year. The monthly crop production report also has our December 1 hay stocks estimate. And based on what I showed you with hay production this year, probably coming to no surprise that we're looking at a 9 percent reduction in the hay stored as of December the 1st. 71.9 million tons there. You can see fairly sharp declines in Texas and Missouri, our largest storage states there. That's actually overall the lowest December 1 stock since 1954. Our May and November disappearance was 57.6 million tons, actually down 3 percent from the same time a year earlier, but just not a lot of production feeding into the storage situation this year. If we look at that graphically, again, state by state, on a year by year basis here, you can see pretty sharp declines again in the kind of central to southern plains and adjacent states there as well. Dry conditions obviously having a big impact there. You do see some ampersands here because we have record low hay stocks in California, Colorado, and Nebraska as of December the 1st. We're getting close, I promise you. We do have a few other stocks estimates to talk about today as well. I'll move pretty quickly through these. Barley stocks, you can see up 16.9 percent year over year, up just 5.9 percent on the chickpea stocks. Driedable peas up fairly sharply, of course, fairly sharp increase in production there. Durham wheat stocks up 14.6 percent year over year. Lentil stocks up 12.2 percent. Oats down slightly in sorghum stocks, again with a big drop in production. We see a pretty sharp cut in these as of December the 1st. Touching on the last data that I have to share with you today, we do have updated citrus forecasts in our monthly crop production report today as well. As is normally the case in January, we have all states reporting. Overall, we are now forecasting all orange production at 2.70 million tons. That is down 4.6 percent from the previous forecast, 22.1 percent below what was produced last year. If we look at Florida, another 2 million box reduction compared to last month's forecast. No change on the non-Valentias, but the Valencia is off that 2 million boxes from last month. If we look at Florida, the non-Valentias we are now looking at essentially a record low level on the Valencias. It is the lowest level since the 1937-38 season. That means all oranges in Florida expected to be the lowest level since the 1930-31 season. California, all oranges were down a million boxes from their previous forecast. That was all in the Valencia crop there and no change to the all oranges in Texas this month. Looking at grapefruit, 324,000 tons. That is up just nine-tenths of a percent from the previous forecast. It is much like the oranges down fairly sharply year over year. Overall, compared to the previous forecast, we are up just 100,000 boxes. California and Texas are each up 200,000 boxes, but Florida is off 300,000 boxes from the previous forecast. Lemons at 940,000 tons down from both last forecast and last season. And then last but not least, the tangerines. You can see up fairly sharply year over year. Of course, that is mostly a California crop conditions. They are quite a bit different than what we are experiencing in Florida for citrus season. Just a couple other slides I will run through very quickly. Here is a list of some of the upcoming reports over the next month or so. A couple of reminders for folks. Of course, obviously everyone in this room is probably well aware, but we do have the USDA Ag Outlook Forum coming up next month. We will make sure folks have an opportunity to register there. Also, of course, hosting the ICAP conference in May. Early bird registration ending soon, so we wanted to make sure and get a plug out there for folks so they can register and save a few bucks to get out there and do that quickly. And then, of course, as usual, at one o'clock this afternoon, I will be on Twitter hosting our regular STAT-TAT series where on the off chance anybody has any questions about today's report, I suspect I might get a question or two. I will be out there as long as necessary to wade through those questions that folks might have today. So you're assuming you're going to get through my questions by the time that comes out. It's going to be simultaneously. Just a guess. And that is the last slide that I have, so I'm going to turn things over to Mark. We'll get your questions in a little while. All right. All right. Thank you, Lance. All right. Good. Make sure that this works for me here. And it does. All right. Good afternoon. And so I've got, again, also not quite as much information as Lance had to go through, but quite a bit. I'm going to try to go through as quick as I should. Dr. Brunet, I know if you have other meetings or something at one, don't worry if you have to leave. I'm going to go through this and we're always available later if you have questions or need more info. So the Walski report. January, just a couple of things to note. You just saw a lot of information from NASC. We got all of that information early this morning. So our guys worked hard to incorporate it into all of the domestic balance sheets, update those supply and use estimates. And then we also, as we always do, we're also looking at global supply and demand conditions. And just a couple things to note here. We're going to talk a little bit about assessing Russia's wheat production estimate. That should be kind of interesting. We made some changes to the India's cotton crop. And we'll talk a little bit about Argentina corn and soybeans where no big surprise there. It's been dry. So we cut those drops there. I looked her out with wheat. A couple things to note here. You'll see not any huge changes in terms of production. European Union production estimate raised a bit there. That's mainly in Eastern Europe, Hungary, and a few other European countries. Ukraine wheat production estimate raised. That's just Agmin data. That's Ukraine data. China, production reduced. And you'll see this in many of the production slides coming up. We got new information from China, from NBS, and we incorporated that directly. Now the one item here that we'll talk about a little bit more that's just worth noting is no change in our Russia production, wheat production forecast. And that is despite a pretty, you know, large production forecast from Rostad from Russia. So we're going to talk just a little bit about why we held our forecast where it is. Just real quick review of the region that we're talking about here in the Black Sea. Now in Russia, if you look at all the, you know, main wheat production regions, precipitation has been good. Generally favorable throughout the critical parts of the growing season. And vegetation health appeared pretty good throughout the growing season as well. So there is certainly evidence that the crop is large. No question about it. But the, the, the, the questions come up when you look at the, the production that the official Russian production estimates were for every crop. They are at over almost 102 million metric tons. We are holding at 91 million. And that is still a record. That's up 21 percent from last year. But when you look at Russia's forecast, that would be a 36 percent change year over year, that would be 19 percent higher than the previous record and 30 percent above the five-year average. And frankly, based on the, the information we have, the weather data, the VHI, the satellite imagery, it's just, it, we can't quite justify that larger than the increase. So we're sticking with what we got. Like I said, still record production for Russia, 91 million metric tons. But, you know, it's hard to account for where that extra 11 million metric tons that Russia is forecasting is coming from. And, and, you know, one possibility, of course, and this is just speculation, when you look at the regions in the Ukraine conflict, sort of the, the wheat production regions that are being contested. You know, that, those regions and the kind of hashes there, that last year accounted for about 10 million tons. So maybe, maybe that could, could account for where Russia's coming up with their estimates. They're discounting that in their own. But we will get new information from Rostat in March. And maybe we'll get more detail. This initial, this latest estimate did not have production broken down by region within Russia. So again, we'll, we'll, we will readdress this when we get new information in March. So global balance sheet, a couple things to note here. Feed use up a bit this month, adjusted higher. That's mainly higher feed use in the U.S. Partially offset by lower feed and residual in Ukraine. We raised Ukraine's wheat export forecast, increased to half a million tons to 13 million. So with higher exports, there's going to be a lower, lower, lower feed and residual for Ukraine. So that's part of that. Speaking of trade, higher trade forecast there too. That is also reflecting primarily higher exports from the EU and Ukraine. Offset a bit by lower exports from India, given some of their export controls and ending stocks up a bit as you can see. Now, oops, sorry. Getting into the U.S. balance sheet. Yeah, I put up the back year, the old year, just because we did make a change there based on a revision to the September 1 grain stocks that, you know, led us to reduce the feed and residual, feed and residual estimate for the old crop year. And that leads to a corresponding increase in ending stocks, which means that we're carrying in slightly higher stocks. Again, these are relatively small, slightly higher beginning stocks into the new crop year. Other change we made in the new crop year, increased seed use, and that reflects those winter wheat seeding, that winter wheat seeding estimate that we just saw from plants. Feeding residual use raised there, well, that is also reflecting implied disappearance from the December 1 stocks report and ending stocks down just a bit a bit with no change in our season average market price. So moving into rice, pretty small changes on the global production side. Again, China, that reduction of 1.1 million tons is official China data from the National Bureau of Statistics. And the increased production from India there, that's a post estimate from, forecast from post that we accepted. A global balance sheet for rice, total use down a bit. That is largely China. And again, that is consistent with lower production as well, that I just reported for China. Trade, higher exports from India and Brazil, higher supplies in India as well. And ending stocks up a bit. That is mainly higher stocks in Brazil, Vietnam, and India. And ending stocks up this month a bit, but still down pretty sharply year over year. Those would be the lowest global ending stocks since 2017-18 crop year. U.S. balance sheets for rice, again, incorporating the changes that we got from the crop production report this morning, showing a pretty sharp production in supplies, U.S. supplies, tightening up U.S. supplies. And at the same time, we also are incorporating the rice stocks information, which implies higher domestic use. So lower supplies, higher use, tightening up ending stocks, as you can see. And we also reduced our export forecast. 3,000,000,000 weight, as you can see. So of that 3 million, 2 million of that is long grain, a reduction in long grain export forecast. Just kind of a similar story that we've been talking about. Stiff competition in the Western Hemisphere, including exports from Mexico. So, and then for medium short grain, just not very price competitive. So, raise the average market price. Excuse me, the average market price, 20 cents per hundred weight. And that is mostly long grain and other state medium and shorts. That's outside of California. So, ending stocks for U.S., that would be the lowest since the 2017-2018 crop year. Moving into corn production. Again, I put up the back year just because we did make a change and make an adjustment for Argentina back year. And that is just reflect, that's just reflecting observed use data. So, adjusted that the size of that crop accordingly to better line up with the use data that we have. So then for the new crop year, for the current crop year, 2022-2023. Argentina, cut production there. I mentioned that on my first slide. We'll go a little bit more detail into that. Brazil, corn production lowered as well. That is also reflecting dry conditions, drought conditions in the southern part of the country, southern Brazil. Consistent with the conditions that we're seeing in Argentina. And then again, China increased their production estimate. Again, that is based on NDS data from China. So, real quick, just the Argentina corn and soybean, as I said, this isn't a, I mean, this is something that we've been talking about for several months now. It has been dry and it continues to be dry. Dry conditions persisted into through December. And temperatures are also above average. So, it's been dry, it's been dry, it's been hot. It's just, it's a combination suggests concerns about yield. Just another way to look at the relative lack of rainfall, rainfall trace well, rainfall trach well below average. And temperatures well above average. So, you know, the data is pretty clear that there are some, you know, concerns on the horizon. But it is still early. That crop is still, you know, in its early stages and still being planted. So, this is the first, you know, official cut to those crops that we made based on weather analysis. So, Argentina corn, we reduced 3 million metric tons from last month. And while we're talking about Argentina, we might draw all this to cover soybeans. Same, you know, crop growing in the same area. Same, facing the same conditions. We lowered soybean production 4 million, 4 million tons from last month. So, global corn, corn balance sheet. A few things to talk about here. Again, I mentioned that old crop year. Again, I just put that up since I also put it up on the production side. Talked about the change and adjustment to production in the back year. Also, an adjustment to trade in the back year. And that's mainly, that's an increase in exports by Brazil late in the season. Strong exports from Brazil in December. Expected to continue in January. And that accounts for the back year. When we talk about the new crop here. A couple things to note here. Feed use down. That's mainly Ukraine, US, and Brazil. And lower feed use in Ukraine. That reflects the fact that just like we did raise Ukraine's foreign export forecast. So, raised it 3 million tons. Raised it 3 million tons. 20.5, I think. So, that's right. 20.5. So, raised it 3 million. What else? Oh, feed use. So, lower in Ukraine, US, and Brazil offset to some degree by higher in China. Ending stocks. Tightening up. That's Brazil, Ukraine, US, which we'll talk about on the next slide. Trade. So, lower exports out of the US and Argentina. Not too surprising. And, you know, Argentina smaller crop. US also smaller crop. We'll talk about. And offset by higher exports out of Ukraine. So, US balance sheet. Again, what we're doing here, of course, is incorporating the new information we got from NASS this morning. Showed a cut in the size of the current crop. Supply tightening up. Exports. You know, exports down sharply as well. A couple things, of course, driving that. Of course, on the one hand, tighter supplies. So, we're not expecting these changes we got today. But also, sales have been lagging already. So, so the combination of the two suggest we needed to lower our export forecast. And those would be the lowest export since the 19-20, 2019-2020 crop year. So, we're talking about the 19-20, that's pretty different. Feature residual use that, that was also that adjusted based on indicator disappearance from stocks report. So, again, with these balance sheets, as you know, we're incorporating all the information we got from NASS this morning. All right. Moving into soybeans. Soybean production. Again, I put the back here because we did make a change in, in, in our production forecast. Back year production estimate for Brazil. And again, that's just based on use data. Higher than expected use, including strong exports out of Brazil. It just suggests that crop had to be bigger than we had originally reported. So, adjusted that accordingly. And for new crop year production. And for new crop year production, a couple things. We already talked about Argentina. Cut that crop based on drought conditions. Black rain and heat in Argentina. Brazil, on the other hand, raised our Brazil soybean production forecast. That is based on an area forecast from Conavi. So, the Conavi data there. And China, yet again, NBS data, official kind of data that we incorporated directly. So, the Conavi data. So, the Conavi data. So, the Conavi data. So, the Conavi data. So, that 2.6 million ton increase in beginning stocks. That reflects that change in the Conavi data. Brazil production that I showed on previous slide. All right. All right. Uh, crush, uh, reduced to 2 million tons. That reflects lower crush in Argentina and China. Offset to some degree by a higher crush in Brazil. trade down exports global exports down so lower exports out of the U.S. the United States and Argentina offset some degree by higher exports from Brazil strong export competition for Brazil ending stocks up just a bit and that is largely a slight increase in Brazil as well China imports reduced to 2 million metric tons higher production in China and lower crush so it's that important for the U.S. balance sheet again incorporating the changes we got from NASA this morning showing you know lower production than we had been carrying in the balance sheet um a lot of that will be uh is balanced by reduced exports uh their lower export forecasts are driven really by three factors one obviously the lower supplies um also lower China uh demand reduced imports from China globally and also more competition from Brazil uh so those kind of you know three users are are putting some pressure on our export forecast uh ending stocks tightening up with it we did and we raised the um season average market price 20 cents per bushel so let's talk about cotton uh production uh a couple things that stand out here uh of course the United States that we'll uh talk about in a couple slides going forward here uh Argentina uh production forecast produced produced again that's consistent with dry conditions we talked about for corn and soybeans uh Brazil uh production forecast increased a bit and that is based on a post report on uh cotton area that uh that we incorporated and um uh India uh product cotton production down and we will talk about that in in in in a little bit of detail here so we cut India's production a million fails and just to quickly this is uh this is a production key cotton production areas in India and uh kind of the issue that's really driving our production in our India production forecast this month is um just you know the fact that arrivals have been very slow in this you know there's a couple uh trains of thought on that one that farmers are just holding the cotton waiting for a higher price the other possibility is that the cotton just isn't there uh the crop is smaller than expected so we we thought it was worth a good uh kind of deep dive back to look at that uh crop potential and indeed we know this uh we knew that this was a fact that it had been uh um exceedingly wet in the main cotton production regions and and you know as you know um you know we talked a lot about Pakistan uh and the uh the uh the flooding conditions there the excess terrain well you know for those storms to get Pakistan they had to come across India so you know much of those same rainy conditions came across the key um uh cotton production regions in India and uh that just you know supports the you know likelihood that crop that did not uh it did it was damaged more than we um we had expected we didn't fully uh account for the uh negative consequences consequences of all that excess rain so our production forecast for um for this month for India down about four percent um but area is still up uh this is all based on yield and uh total production is still up year over year so global um cotton balance sheet uh consumption cut again this month um a couple things driving that one lower production in India so part of that is India uh but also uh lower consumption in Vietnam and Indonesia and uh certainly there's a uh world economy component to this too global economic uncertainty um uh showing up in this lower consumption forecast uh in terms of trade uh so regarding the importing countries uh lower imports we've reduced our import forecasts for Indonesia China and Vietnam and uh exports are reduced in the US and India and India floor smaller crop US balance sheet uh for cotton uh you know basically this can be summarized higher production we've heard about that from that uh from from Lance uh just a few minutes ago higher production reduced exports uh and that is just reflecting the fact that those uh you know there's just been a very slow pace of sales um uh so uh uh that you know that ex you know exports were uh under some pressure already now we have higher production as well so all of that adds up to an increase in ending stocks um and with those high higher ending stocks uh not too surprising that we're gonna be expecting lower prices we're also observing lower prices and we reduced our uh season average market price two cents a pound okay uh moving with the sugar um real quick uh back here small changes in the back here but just kind of worth noting here um uh the increase uh you see that the uh uh 19 000 short comes for cane uh in 2021 2022 crop here that just reflects that that's uh uh production in Louisiana it was harvested in September so that um uh you know uh pulled some production out of the current crop year into the back year uh and uh ending stocks is basically set from uh by smd data at this point so the the balance comes out of uh out of um use uh so for the new crop year uh production uh uh uh beats uh beat production forecast up quite a bit this uh uh uh this month uh we're expecting higher recovery higher sugar recovery this is based on uh processor data smd data reported in smd data uh cane production up as well um uh mainly reflecting higher production out of uh Louisiana reported by nasa uh trq imports uh we reduced uh reduced 85 million uh i'm sorry 85 000 short tons this month and that just reflects an increase in the shortfall if you recall the trq was extended until uh december 31 but still uh it didn't seem to you know have enough of an effect that uh to fill that trq uh so that should be um so so that's where we are with regards to trq high tier uh increased uh 50 000 short tons is based on uh paste especially refined sugar and um and when you had add it all up uh we're showing higher supplies higher ending stocks and the stocks used ratio right now stands at 14.9 percent excited for your point uh what uh regular uh from sl loosely as well um um requirements need to be report if pap 있지만 chi this year Meg orежд again mattaki and uh said to these operationsman uh sites are currentją data Sync i've var events uhھants uh being pointed to be uh as an succession on the london rateели uh be times瓜 and uh pandggioy for revenue to um you know I think that's kind of artalsan uh by article of and um you know aver this will be shifted up as anyl super reduction in the imex program so my hair all right that kind of wrapped things up with the animal side of the uh of the wasdy um uh meat production and in prices uh beef production uh for 2022 uh uh reduced uh this month um mainly reflecting uh lower uh steer and heifer slaughter offset some degree by higher cow slaughter and also the fact that the weather was you know the extreme cold and stone conditions we had at the end of 2022 a lot of plants shut down so some of that production just shifted into the new crop year because of the timing of when those weather events occurred uh for 2023 um we raised our feed production uh forecast uh reflecting expectations of continued high cow slaughter um for the rest of 2022 we're just basically true enough again november data um slaughter data uh so it's pretty small changes there forecasting for the current uh calendar year 2023 uh the pork production forecast was raised that reflects uh barrowing intentions out of the recent talks of pigs report um broiler uh production forecast pulled back a bit reflecting hatchery first quarter hatchery data and uh turkey uh production forecast also adjusted based on hatchery data prices for 2022 for uh deer hogs and and poultry those are final data now um so they are what they are and they're gonna uh uh uh remain at those levels for 2023 uh steer price forecast we raised two dollars and uh 75 cents a hundredweight just reflecting tighter supplies and expectations that demand will remain strong and also for hogs uh raised that uh raised uh raised uh raised our uh price forecast also reflecting strong demand um and some of the changes from for uh broilers and turkey again just kind of carrying conditions through from flat from last year meat trade uh not much to pay about for 2022 again just kind of small adjustments based on uh november trade data uh for 2023 uh in raised our fourth production our pork export forecast reflecting that higher production forecast and uh turkey i'll just note uh turkey exports uh pull back which is a relatively large amount relative to the size of those exports just based on higher prices import these import forecasts that increase that mainly reflects uh uh product coming in from brazil just to wrap things up real quick here with uh dairy uh milk production for 2022 full pull back based on lower milk per cow in the fourth quarter 2023 milk production down based on lower cow numbers and that reflects in part uh softening prices which i'll show you on the next slide when we wrap things up and uh uh 2022 uh um export the butter and cheese export forecast the fat basis uh raised um um cheese uh for uh uh the skin solid basis in uh export forecast increases also based on on cheese higher cheese exports uh for 2023 uh fat basis in uh export increase is reflecting butter uh higher butter uh exports and for skim solids imports uh higher uh higher imports of lactose and exports would be um skim milk powder so finish things up here with prices 2022 again final prices uh for all all of the products in the classes except for the all milk price that will be adjusted um the rest of the prices are final 2023 uh prices as you can see uh reduced our price forecasts across the board um for all of the products reflecting weakening demand and strong international competition and those lower product prices lead directly to lower class prices or the class three price reductions mainly reflecting lower prices for cheese and cheese and whey class four reflecting lower prices for butter and non-fat dry milk and when they add it all up our all milk price forecast reduced by a dollar 10 cents per hundred weight um it's pretty sharp production year over year and this is likely to lead to some dairy margin protection program payments so that's where i'll end it uh that's a quick walk through the wasdy um thank you to everyone who who uh attended today including those online uh we'll be right back here next month i look forward to seeing you then and uh i will now turn