NoAW 2020 - Exploitation of untapped potentials of agricultural wastes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VGnYsMhsWuU
People & Blogs
 To reach a sustainable consumption culture, we need to focus on how we can reduce, reuse and recycle materials in order to yield their maximum value. Agricultural activities are no exception, so we also have to check on what we can do better on the farm in order to reduce waste or negative effects on the environment. This is what NOAAV Project is all about, finding innovative solutions for converting agricultural byproducts such as straw, manure and winery waste into valuable assets. Grape growing and winemaking activities generate waste in addition to wine. Vine shoots and grape stalks are rich in high-value molecules such as condensed tannins and other polyphenols. The straw left after harvest is also undervalorised even though it can be used as an input for renewable energy and materials. Manure produced by intensive livestock rearing systems contains an excess of nutrients and organic matter. The handling and storage of manure may lead to problems such as odours, pathogens and GHG emissions. Manure, similar to other agricultural residues, can be valorised as a feedstock in biogas plants. Biogas plants are at the centre of the NOAAV Project. It is a proven technology, it is already part of the agricultural sector, but it needs to be improved to be more efficient. So we aim to improve pre- or post-treatment of feedstock in order to enlarge the types of materials we can use. The two-step anaerobic digestion provides valuable materials besides the biogas. We can use microbial cells to upgrade biogas to have biomethane. This can be used in the automotive sector or injected into the gas network. It is also possible to produce the building block of biodegradable plastics, in particular polyhydroxyalkanoates, PHA, which can at least partially replace oil-based plastics. With these innovative methods, we can convert straw, binary wastes and polyhydroxyalkanoates into new biochemicals, biomaterials which can be used in sustainable packaging production. Besides which a nutrient-rich digestate is produced, it can be used in the field as a crop fertiliser and it too is renewable. NOAAV develops decision support tools that enable the assessment of stakeholders' preferences and the environmental impact of new processes and products in the light of regional and seasonal specifics. New business and marketing strategies and the cross-sectoral vision bridge the gap between science and businesses. The NOAAV project enhances the linkage between practical users, industrial and economic actors via a knowledge exchange stakeholder platform. The collaboration with Chinese project partners and an Asian mirror platform expands the project reach beyond the European Union. NOAAV offers a new vision aligned with the principles of the circular economy to inspire future generations of farmers, agronomists and food actors to reshape the meaning and the use of agricultural crops. NOAAV offers a new vision Michelle O'Replay