Corn Planting Dates and Hybrid Maturity
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VhKBqY8GGLI
People & Blogs
 Hey everybody, Derek Whalen, Channel Technical Agronomist in Southwestern Illinois. Getting a lot of questions from farmers, customers asking if we should be switching out our corn hybrids to something shorter season compared to these fuller season hybrids that we had originally planned on based on our current planning dates. So just quickly want to credit Chris Kalal, colleague with Bayer, fellow technical agronomist. He put together a video just like this and I thought it was a great way, a pretty simple way to show data and reasoning and talking points as to why we still have plenty of time to stick with these original hybrids, these full season hybrids that we've selected, you know, based on their performance and the highest yield potential. So again, I want to credit Chris for that. And so how he had set this up and I wanted to emulate, we have all of the hybrids here from 107 day out to 118 day here, you know, across this first column. And the second is the total number of growing degree units that a hybrid needs to reach black layer typically. So that would be a typical April planning date. Now after May 1st, there was research conducted at Purdue and they determined that after May 1st, a hybrid will reduce the total number of heat units it needs to reach black layer by about 6.8 units per day. So those start adding up, that reduction starts May 1st. So here we're looking at end of day or end of May planning dates, it's typically May, or it's excuse me, it is currently May 22nd. So looking at planning dates here starting at May 25th out to June 20th. And so again, these hybrids are going to adjust and then lower the total number of heat units that they're going to need to reach black layer or physiological maturity. So to explain here down at the bottom, I have a location of Oakville. So I wanted to pick a location that's pretty center in my territory and the geography that I support. And then I have two different dates here. So one being October 31st, which would be the end of October. Hopefully in most typical years harvest is about wrapped up at that point, but I just wanted to pick a date that would be kind of towards the typical end of harvest. And then I have totals here with this October 31st for each of these planning dates. So on May 25th, based on historical weather data, from May 25th to October 31st on average will accumulate about 3,240 total heat units. You can see these totals from the subsequent planning dates out to June 20th. So June 20th going out to October 31st on average, based on historical weather data, will accumulate about 2,692 heat units. The second date here is November 18th. So what is the significance of November 18th? That is the historical average over the last 30 years, the historical average first frost date for Oakville. So just compare yourself to wherever your location may be from Oakville, whether you're north or south. If you're further south from Oakville, chances are your historical first frost date might be a few days later than that, might be a few days before that if you're a little bit further north from Oakville. And so again, just wanted to reiterate the point that we've learned over time that these corn hybrids will reduce and will adjust themselves and their total GDU needs. So just to do a quick example, talking about 214.78. So, you know, through the breeding and development process, it was determined that 214.78 needs 2,830 total growing degree units for it to reach black layer or physiological maturity. Based on that calculation and that data that we know that after May 1st, a hybrid is going to reduce its total number of units it needs by 6.8 degree units for each day after May 1st. So I've got the calculations here, you know, formulated out from May 25th out to June 20th. So looking at 214.78, if we planted it on May 25th, instead of that original value of 200, excuse me, 2,830, it's only going to need about 2667 heat units if planted May 25th. Taking that out, if we were plant 214.78 on June 20th, it would only need 2,490 total heat units for it to reach black layer or physiological maturity. So I do want to point up here towards the upper right-hand corner of the screen. Black layer, it varies by hybrid and environment, you know, year to year. But a good rule of thumb for moisture percentage on our black layered hybrids is about 30%. Now that can vary based on the hybrid, based on the year, based on the environment, from approximately 25% moisture to 35% moisture. But a good rule of thumb to use is when a corn reaches black layer, it's about 30% moisture. So it is going to take a hybrid, you know, several, a couple hundred more heat units to get from black layer to whatever your intended harvest moisture might be. So that is something to take into consideration. But back up over here to the table to explain the color coding that I have here, as you can see, most of these hybrids and these particular planting dates I have highlighted in green. So green, these would be depicting planting dates by hybrid of what we still feel would be safe planting dates by hybrid to plant and, you know, still have time for these hybrids to reach physiological maturity. As we get down here to this May 20th date, you can see two hybrids for this June 20th planting date, 218.44 to 218.55, based on their total GDU needs to get to black layer and that calculation, you know, based on 6.8 units per day. Getting out to this June 20th timeframe, that's where we start to get, you know, fairly close for looking at the October 31st date or even our November 18th date of how many total heat units based on historical weather data we're going to accumulate from June 20th to November 18th. So again, you do want to think about how many heat units it does take to get from that 30% moisture down to say 20%. It's that's typically somewhere between 300 and 400 total heat units. So do want to kind of factor that in when you're trying to make these decisions of your fuller season hybrids based on these later planting dates. Another comment I want to make and it would definitely support, you know, sticking with these fuller season hybrids. As you can see, I have those 218 days still highlighted in green, even after that June 15th planting date. And so that point being, as we think about switching to these earlier season hybrids, typically in Southern Illinois, we're from anywhere from 109 to 118, 120 day hybrid is as our typical range. And all those hybrids are adapted, they were bred and developed to perform well, you know, based on the heat that we accumulate in Southern Illinois. You know, some, a lot of times the stressful conditions, drought conditions, when we have lack of rain, but also the different diseases that we have coming up from the South, like a Southern rust that hybrids that were, were bred and developed and adapted for Northern geographies. Those, they typically weren't, weren't targeted to battle a disease like Southern rust. So that's, that's one thing, just thinking about where these hybrids were developed, geographically speaking, for them to succeed. And also a lot of times, you know, think, when we think about switching, say 115 out for 105 day, we have a lot of data to support that, that 115 day, again, going back to how it was bred and developed for this geography. But, but there's not a lot of data, not a lot of data to support those, those earlier seasons, say 105 day, that it's going to do well, and it's going to adapt to the warmer environment or warmer climate that we have in Southern Illinois. So that is, that is definitely a concern to think about as to a lot of the reasoning as to why agronomists and, you know, the seed professionals that you're working with typically will shy away from going to something that, you know, that early. It's because these hybrids are adapted to this particular environment, and these are the, you know, the highest yield potential hybrids that we're bringing out, is because they're going to perform and give you the best chance for, for the highest yield potential on that particular acre. So that's something to take into consideration. Again, I talked about, you know, how many heat units we need to get from that 30% or that black layer moisture of 30% down to your intended harvest moisture, whether that be 23, 24%, or even down to 15, 16, 17% moisture. So you do need to factor in how many more heat units you need to dry it from that black layer percent, but also think about the yield potential that you're giving up when you're switching from say 115, 114 day down to 105 day. I would venture to say that a lot of times it's going to pencil out better to stick with that fuller season, that 115, 116, 117 day, rather than going to something, you know, drastically earlier. And, and, and, you know, something else that I want to reiterate that's not often talked about or not talked about enough as we get into these later planning dates is, is that adjustment that these hybrids have, have made or have learned to make and adapted to over time. Again, that, you know, great, great data out of Purdue University. Again, that 6.8 units reduction each day after May 1st. So those, those hybrids are going to adapt and especially these, you know, full season hybrids, they're going to adapt themselves to, to still get to black layer, uh, in a, in a typical normal fashion. So again, as I mentioned, uh, this particular table is going over several different, uh, channel hybrids, uh, just to quickly show the, the same setup, same calculations for, uh, legacy stone hybrids. Uh, so I have several listed here from 109, uh, down to 118 day, 1812, really popular hybrid with stone. Uh, do have one, one planning date here again, that June 20th. We're getting pretty close to the, the total accumulation from June 20th to October 31st, even thinking about our first frost date on November 18th. Um, you know, again, that average first frost date is just that it's an average. Some years it's going to be earlier, some years it's going to be later. So, uh, definitely want to take that into consideration. But overall, uh, just want to reiterate the fact that we still have a couple of weeks here to stick with, uh, these full season hybrids. Again, these hybrids were developed, they were adapted, uh, they were bred and developed to perform well in our specific geography, uh, to, to handle that, the diseases that we see typically year in, year out. Um, these are, you know, high yielding products. I strongly feel that, uh, that we still have a few weeks here to stick with those particular hybrids. If we switch again, I go back to 105 day hybrid. I think we're giving, giving up, leaving a lot of yield potential still on the table. If we were making it, if we were to make a switch from 115 to say 105 day. Um, so yeah, final, final point here, stick with the plan here, here for a few more weeks. Again, these, these hybrids are going to adapt. They're going to adjust. They're going to reduce their total number of heat units they need to, to get out to, to black layer to that, that, that 30% moisture approximately. Uh, so thanks for watching. If you have any questions, please reach out to your, uh, your stone dealer or your channel seed pro, uh, let us know how we can help. Uh, if you need some more information, uh, I want to talk through some of these calculations or these, these hybrid selections or placement. Um, and as, as to why we still think it's, uh, for the time being here for the next few weeks, uh, still a good idea to, to stick with these full season hybrids. Uh, so thanks everybody. Have a great day. Thank you.