Rhizobia-mycorrhizae-based biofertilizer for smallholders farmers
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Vhke4G6N_oE
Nonprofits & Activism
 Thank you. My name is Dr. Bintu Nabintu Ndusha. I'm from Democratic Republic of Congo, and my institution is named Université Evangelique en Afrique. My project is titled Rhizobia Mycorrhiza-Based Biofetilizer for Improved East African Smallholders' Farmers' Lifelighhoods. I'm doing this project with four institutions within East Africa. University of Nairobi, which is located in Kenya. Hope Africa University, located in Bujumbura, Burundi. And a private enterprise called ITRACOM. Soil fertility is the main trait to agriculture productivity in Africa. And yet, we have many sources of fertilizers in Africa. For example, urban and rural waste can be processed into fertilizers. And also, in African soil, we have high diversity of benefits soil microorganisms that can be used to boost soil fertility in Africa. From our project, we come out with a product known as Rhizobia Mycorrhiza-Biofetilizer. So this product is the combination of treated urban and rural waste combined with benefits soil mycorrhiza, microorganisms. For example, Rhizobia, which is known to fix nitrogen from the atmosphere. And the mycorrhiza, which is known to mobilize soil phosphorus. The technology behind the product is the techniques of waste management, but also techniques for isolating and conditioning benefits soil microorganisms. The work starts from collection of waste and isolation of soil microorganisms. So, waste are processed in the laboratory. And we have apparatus, we have equipment that can allow us to process safely and in big quantity fertilizers. And after that, we isolate microorganisms from soil, treat it, and then combine it with the waste to produce our fertilizer. Our project, we want to come up with an adapted and marketable biofetilizer suitable for East Africa. And with these biofetilizers, we are going to improve crops yield up to 70%. And with this project, we will increase collaboration within African institutions to solve African problems. We will also build capacity within biofetilizer value chain. And we will develop business along biofetilizer value chain. The fertilizer we are proposing by our project is an environmental friendly biofetilizer. It is a biofetilizer that gives us biofood.