How do the farm animals farmed for our food live?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VjZCgV8ysss
Pets & Animals
 Chickens, sheep, cows, pigs and fish. These are just some of the hundreds of millions of animals farmed for food in the UK each year. But how do we know how these animals have lived? Rushing around a busy supermarket, faced with hundreds of products and labels, it's tricky to know which of the products we buy come from animals reared on higher welfare farms. When we see words such as farm fresh, natural, reared to British welfare standards or even a picture of a field, it can suggest that these products are from animals that have been farmed to higher welfare standards. But the truth is, these words and pictures can appear on products that are from animals reared on farms that only meet the minimum legal welfare requirements. And often, these do not go far enough to protect the welfare of farm animals. Farm animals are sentient beings. They have feelings and fascinating behaviours, just like our pets. And, like our pets, they deserve to live in an environment that meets their needs. For example, did you know that chickens have 330 degree sight and have around 20 separate calls to communicate with each other? And yet, the vast majority of chickens farmed for meat in the UK are kept in a barren environment and have been bred to grow at an unnaturally fast rate, which can cause painful leg problems and organ failure. Did you know, pigs are incredibly clean and highly intelligent? They can also squeal as loudly as a jumbo jet? But sadly, millions of pigs are kept in poor conditions, in pens with no bedding and inadequate enrichment, which can lead to boredom and tail biting. Mother pigs are often confined to a small metal crate during and after birth. Even hens, who love to peck and scratch at the ground and can fly up to six feet when they want to perch and rest, are still confined in the so-called enriched battery cage. So how do you know which labels to look for? A label that lets us know that the animals were reared on farms to higher welfare standards. Well, look no further. If you see the RSPCA Assured label, then you will know that these animals were reared on farms that meet strict RSPCA welfare standards. This means that the eggs you buy are from hens that live cage-free. The pigs are free from place and are given plenty of bedding and suitable enrichment. And the chickens are slower growing and live in a more enriching environment. By choosing the RSPCA Assured label, you'll know you're supporting higher welfare conditions for farm animals. And if, for any reason, you can't see the RSPCA Assured label, you can still look out for the following. You can really make a difference to the lives of farm animals. Each time you pick an RSPCA Assured product, you are supporting farmers who give their animals a better life. Find out more about higher welfare food and get involved with our campaigns.