30 MUST-HAVE Tools For Small Regenerative Farms & Market Gardens
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vMQiVsZL83M
Education
 Okay guys, this is it. Our yearly tool review at the Market Gardener Institute. 30 tools that are must-have for market gardeners and small-scale organic growers. It's still the best out there. It's the ultimate tool. It allows you to really speed up the process. This is our best friend. Okay, so guys, every year for, I would say, the last 10 years, I've been reviewing different tools. I've been a consultant for different tool companies. Some tools I've designed myself. But at the Market Gardener Institute, we have a network of growers from all over the world. And we review certain tools to make sure that we're always on par where the best tools are. And so some tools are in our list. Some tools aren't in our list. But today we're going over the 30 that are must-have. We're going to be talking about which tool, why, how, and then moving on quickly to another one. So let's jump right into it. The first tool on the list is a classic, the broad fork, la gralinette in French. Obviously, I made my work famous using that tool, but it's just an incredible tool. If anyone's interested in a no-till approach on a permanent bed structure, and combining all of this with a bio-intensive growing strategies where you're wanting roots to really shoot down, the broad fork is really the tool to help you get there. Number two on the list is a push seeder. Push seeders are so important in Market Gardening. I remember the times when I started and we were rolling seeds by hand. There's been so much evolution in the last 20 years. But by far, the most precise, reliable, and really good push seeder is the Jang seeder. You've seen it elsewhere. It's still the best out there. I don't see anytime soon where it's going to be replaced. If you're going to buy one seeder for the farm, the Jang is that seeder. We really use and like the JP5 Jang seeder. It allows us to seed three, six, 12 rows, 10 rows on a 30-inch bed. Saves us a lot of time. Definitely worth the investment. Next up, as a runner-up with push seeders, is the Pinpoint seeder. The Pinpoint seeders, there's different models out there. But the one that we really like is the new six-row seeder that has been developed by Johnny's Selected Seeds by Elliot Coleman back in the days. But they have a version two of it, which is a lot more sturdy. It's more robust and it's more reliable. It's a great tool. We've tested, trialed it, really like it. And that would be, I would say, our number two seeder on the seeding list. Greatest companion to the market gardener if you're working in a permanent bed strategy and you don't have a tractor, the bed preparation rake is such a useful tool. We use it every time that we do a bed prep. And in my liking, in our experience, these bed rakes, they need to be 30-inch. They need to have the right spacing between the teats. And they should have markers to help you mark your rows lengthways, sideways. It's just an invaluable tool. And it's an investment that you make once and that's a tool that you'll have for a lifetime. Next up, the Tine Weeder or Blind Weeder. Blind Weeders, what they allow you to do is to quickly go over your beds and cultivate them without even looking at what you're doing. So it's a set of springs that offset when they hit the plant. And when the weeds are really small, it destroys them. So we actually call it a Flex Time Weeder. And the one that we really like is from Two Bad Cats. And it's really making a big difference, especially if you're growing baby greens heavily, densely seeded. Next up is a favorite, the stirrup hose. Stirrup hose for a market garden is like a golf club for a golfer. It's just the tool that you use to keep your garden clean. Stirrup hose, why they're so useful is that they allow you to really cultivate your soil, bring oxygen into it. And then when you're keeping, you're steering your soil at the right timing, you're not actually weeding, you're really cultivating. So just a perfect tool for the job. There's different hose of different size, three and a quarter, five, seven. We like them all. They're all important in our toolbox. And there's also collinear hose that are really also interesting because they allow you to work underneath the head of the plant. So stirrup hose, all-time favorite and really important tools in the market garden. Next up, the wheel hoe. The wheel hoe is such an important tool in our toolbox. I've tested and trialed pretty much all the wheel hose out there. Definitely wheel hose that are simple, that have rubber tires, that are sturdy, that will last a long time. They also come with stirrup hose. And that's mostly why we use them to prepare seed beds and to keep our pathways clean. The one we favor is the one that I designed, which is the Growers & Co. wheel hoe. A really nice one. Check it out. Next up is fire. Fire to control your weeds in the likes of a flame weeder. Flame weeders, again, another tool really important in our toolbox. There's a lot of different flame weeders out there. We definitely favor those that you carry the propane on your back so that you're not goofing around straddling beds with something heavy. And we like those that are 30-inch wide or 15-inch wide so that they're really comfortable to use. The flame is also in a box so that the wind doesn't come in. And that's important when you're doing, you know, pre-emergence flame weeding. And also something that is simple, neat, and safe to use. Next two are really important with regards to weed control. The first one is landscape fabric. Landscape fabric that you lay out on your beds and that you poke holes into to plant your transplants directly into that landscape fabric. This is invaluable for crops that are there 50-60 days or more because, you know, it eliminates all the weeding and it just keeps your soil nice and moist. The next one is the biodisc. The biodisc is something that you attach to a double wheel hoe developed by Terratec in France. And that double wheel hoe allows you to straddle over a row and cultivate between both rows at the same time. It was a game changer a few years back and it's a great tool for weed prevention. Next in line is the amazing two-wheel tractor from BCS. Made in Italy, really versatile. It allows you to work on a 30-inch bed. It's actually, it feels like it was invented for that. Two of our favorite tool that goes with the BCS is, first of all, the power harrow. This replaces the rotor tiller. It has time that works like this. So you're not inverting layers. It allows you to really perfectly condition your seed bed. It's the ultimate tool for seed bed prep. And the flail mower. The flail mower allows you to basically do green manure in the market garden. So it's just an amazing tool. And these are must-have if you own a BCS. Next one is a great alternative to the BCS two-wheel tractor. And it's also very useful for using in greenhouses and in hoop houses. We're talking about the tilter. The tilter allows you to work your perma beds shallowly, you know, mix amendments. And really refine your soil at the first few inch so that you can use a seeder and use it nicely afterward. The tilter was developed many, many moons ago. And last year, Johnny's Selected Seeds came up with a new version. And the tilter number two is greatly improved. It has all the features that are now working that weren't working so properly with the first edition. It's just a great alternative for anyone that's perhaps not at the point of acquiring a more expensive two-wheel tractor. Next up is greenhouses and caterpillar tunnels and tunnels of all kind. There's a lot of companies making them. I think for me, you know, most designs are probably good. Having the right specs for your needs, that's really important. Learning how to install them. And we made in the past a really great video about mistakes that most people do. You can check that out. Otherwise, we recommend three companies. Arnois, you know, leading manufacturer in North America. If you're interested in Guther Connected Greenhouse, they're definitely a go-to. And Tessier and also Farmers Friends, they also have really good options for smaller houses, hoop houses, movable caterpillar tunnels. Their designs are awesome. Next up is seating trays. We recommend and use regular seating trays, 128 and 72 for most of our crops. They're then potted up in 10-inch pots. Most of our crops, we grow like that. There's a lot of companies making these trays. I really like Bootstrap Farmer in the U.S. I think they're coming up with new trays that are more resistant, more durable. I would go that way if I was to start again. But the potting mix, having high, high quality potting mix is really important. Nexaline is a small tool that we use a lot. Definitely a game changer in its way. This is a dibber. And it's not fairly common here in the U.S., but in Europe, you'll see them a lot. This one is made by Growers & Co. It's really simple, but it allows you to just open up your holes when you're ready to transplant. And just by using this kind of rotation, you can really make your hole bigger as you need it. It also has a measuring yard, so you can know your planting depth. Again, this is something that we carry with us. And whenever the ground is a bit hard and solid when we're transplanting, this is the tool of choice to help us do this faster. Next up, irrigation. Such a big part of farming. You don't get anywhere without water. Drip, obviously, really important. You'll need drip because you want to conserve water, but also because some plants don't like to be watered by overhead. It's just not good for disease, and it's just better to just bottom feed them with water. We also like the XL wobblers. They're really good. And the NAND micro sprinklers because they allow you to water a few beds at once. Dubois, Nolts, great resource for irrigation. Check them out. Next up, two of the biggest game changer of all time. It's hard to imagine that when I started in small-scale farming, these weren't around. Floating row covers. Okay, this allows you to really give extra heat to the crop in the spring, but it also does, it retains the water, it retains the moisture. So anytime you're seeding, you know, it's going to help with germination. This is a game saver with regards to season extension in the spring and in the fall. And for the summer, when we have problems with insects, we replace these floating row covers with insect nets. And so there's different variation of insect nets. You know, the size of the mesh will determine which pest you're protecting against and how durable the material is. But using row covers and insect nets, I would say a good half of our plants are protected by one or the other during a year. So really, really important tools in our toolbox. All right, so another one, really a game changer back in the days. Black silage tarps. Okay, so these silage tarps, what they allow you is they allow to flip beds without using a rotor tiller because it's a passive way of just destroying whatever's growing underneath. It's also a great way to pre-germinate weeds that will get destroyed because there's no light. And so it's just a great way to keep your soil covered and to prepare your seed beds to have a clean slate to plant into. In a no-till system, this is a must. We call them silage tarps because they're UV treated and they last you a lifetime. So we're not, this is not disposable plastic. And again, it saves you so much time in the market garden. We use them a ton and we recommend them highly. So next up, backpack sprayers. There's all sorts of pests out there that can be a big problem to handle. We use a lot of nets, but inevitably we come down to using some biopesticides. We also are using copper sulfate. We're spraying different things in the garden. And having a good sprayer will go a long way in making the chore efficient, but also making it work because you need to have a good sprayer with the nice nozzles. I highly recommend an electric sprayer. There's a lot of companies that are coming up with good ones. We've tested and trialed a few of them. Our recommendations is in the blog post of this video. Next on the list is something that we carry with us all the time, every day, is the field harvest knife. And the one that we favor is definitely the Opinel No. 10 from France. The Opinel is really, really sturdy, really strong. It's really handy because you can flip it, put it in your pocket. But what we really like about it is that it has a firm grip. It's really ergonomic. If you're using this for many, many hours in a day, it does make a difference. And this one is a collab with Growers & Co. And it has a measuring stick because we're also using the Opinel as a yardstick when we're harvesting. Given the size of the courgettes that we want to harvest, they should be the size of an Opinel. It becomes an important tool in itself. So Opinel, the best harvesting knife ever developed by far. Another must-have is pruning shears. We don't carry them all the time with us, but in greenhouse, it's definitely used all the time for harvesting. There's a lot of crops that are harvesting with them. We definitely like and recommend the shears from Felco. High quality, will last almost a lifetime. Unless you don't lose them, these shears are with you for a very long time. So shears, Felco, an important part of the Market Gardeners Toolkit. Keeping your tools sharp, that's another biggie. The tool sharpener that we really like and use is like a mini belt sander and it allows it to keep all of our harvest knife really clean. Also our stirrup hose. It's a tool that we use every day when the crew gets in in the morning. They sharpen their blades and then they're ready for action. Speaking of sharp blades, the next one in line is the Quick Cuts Harvester. That was back in the days one game changer for sure. It allows you, the Quick Cut is a battery powered by a drill harvester, greens harvester, that works on a 30 inch bed really nicely. And it allows you to really speed up the process of harvesting fresh greens. You really need a sharp blade, but when you do have that tool in your toolbox, you can go from harvesting manually to harvesting mechanically and it saves you a ton of hours. Next two that are really important and we use them a lot during harvest day. The harvest cart, that's really important. This is our best friend. This harvest cart is the Vermont harvest cart. It allows you to strap those the bed so you can wheel over your 30 inch beds. Remember, it's like they're four feet center to center our beds. So this works in nicely. And also its dimension so that you can really have a high pile in the back and it's really easy to move around. So this tool is a game changer. It also, it links to the other important tool, which is harvest bins. Harvest bins, harvest containers, they should have the function of being stackable. They should be sturdy. They should be of different colors and different size. Bigger, bigger size for leafy greens, smaller size for root vegetables, heavier, different color for coating the different harvests. Next in line is the cold room. That's a big part of our work. Just making sure that you're able to, you know, first of all, condition your vegetables, but also store them overnight before you deliver the next day. Okay. Buying a cold room is not the expensive part, but finding a compressor that's going to last and that is going to be powerful enough to keep that room cold can be a problem. You can definitely check out CoolBot. CoolBot is a really, really cool alternative to a classic compressor because it allows you to use an AC unit and transform it really cheaply into a, you know, cold house. Another one is rain gear. Rain gear, you know, I don't know where you farm, but where we are, you know, the weather is always changing. So we're changing all the time, having a good rain coat that's breedable, that's 100% waterproof, that's really wind resistant is really important. But I would say most importantly is the rain bibs. The rain bibs because that rain bibs that have knee pads. Knee pads for your rain gear is really important because we do spend a lot of time on our knees and we do spend a lot of time harvesting when the soils are cold. And so making sure that you're protecting your knees, that you're protecting yourself from the rainy elements, I would say is a must in any market gardening situation. Farming without knee pads, like, you know, being on our knees is a big part of the work. We're harvesting and we're planting. And so working with knee pads, having pants that have knee pads integrated into them, that's even better. There's a lot of companies doing those right now. But knee pads, knee pads, knee pads, protecting your knees and your kneecap when you're working in the garden, I think is a must. So a lot more growers are paying attention to this really important stuff. And finally, in my opinion, the game changer of this year is the arrival of Heirloom in our toolbox. Heirloom is a crop planting software that allows you to understand your production from a bird's eye view. It allows you to have planting calendars. It allows you to organize your harvest, organize your team. It's a 360 program. It's really nice. It has its own AI. It's really powerful. It's designed by growers for growers. And in my opinion, this will help growers take their farming to new levels. And so that's really, in my opinion, the game changer of this year, making the list, our final entry. Well, that's it for this week. I hope you like this video. If you have any comments, send them to us. If you have any tool recommendations, please put us in contact with these tool manufacturers or send them the tool or send us the link. Whatever. Whatever. This is a conversation. We're already testing and trialing tools for next year. And we're excited. But these are the 30 must-haves of 2024. All right. See you next time. Jam out. Jam out. Jam out. Jam out. Jam out. Amen. T spaceship.