What are the main challenges for implementing sustainable farming practices?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VOggkHhnTGk
People & Blogs
 And what are the main challenges for implementing new practices for a more sustainable agriculture now? So what are the big problems? What are the big challenges to overcome? I mean, certainly many people here in this audience have been thinking about this for a long, long time. There's kind of the on-farm operations elements. There's the climate finance elements. And I think, you know, the exciting part for me at all of this is seeing this come together, right? That these groups of people who didn't always partner together, I believe, will come together more as these alliances. A couple of things to note here. You know, the incentive elements that we talked about and the long-term nature of these programs, those are based on the fact that we know that implementing these operationally is challenging. And so I think there's kind of two things. One can be investments related to just practical implementations. Whether you need new equipment, whether you need new services, of course, there are awesome benefits in terms of cost reductions to employing some of these practices as well. But that's non-trivial to figure out. And the support with growers, I think, is going to be important as we look at the finance aspect. And, of course, the incentives that we provide as part of that so that you aren't concerned that you're making these very scary implementation challenges that are going to put you at risk. And so I think regardless of how you think about this, our goal is to make this a very practical decision for the farmer and for the farm. And like I said earlier, to have new practices and programs that allow, you know, depending on where you are and what you already do, that you have more options to implement this menu that sort of fits depending on how you already manage and where your farm is. So I think those are kind of two critical aspects. I would also note the education element. And it's something that we've also been working to bring into the programs. I mean, this market is early. I know I have heard from, I don't know, Yevon, probably 100 farmers in the last few months that there is so much information. And it's very difficult to sort through and understand. And so I think you see this information gap, not just at the farm level, but with our other partners, trying to understand what these incentives mean, how to implement them. So I also I think there's an enormous amount of education that we as an alliance and frankly, as an industry have to come together to do to ultimately support the farmer, but to get the whole value chain kind of ready to understand what that means. So I think focus on the farmer in terms of implementation and kind of gearing up and providing infrastructure to make sure that the industry can understand and support what it means to do this.