Building a Farm Budget: How to Project Your Farm’s Expenses
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vQ046GRN74M
Science & Technology
 All right. So as we sort of look at projecting expenses for farmers as they approach the next year, what are some of the key components of projected expenses? Yeah, on the expense side of things, that's a little bit, you know, where we're at right now, that's the hot topic. So expenses continue to rise across the board. I know we did a supply chain video here last week, I believe, that talked a little bit about the supply chain and what's causing some of the increase in the expenses and when that may end. It doesn't sound like that's in sight anytime soon. So when you're looking at the expense side of things, you know, two, I always say, one, I always say guess high. You know, if you're going to make an estimate, always build in plenty of cushion when you're looking at that. Make sure that you handle your key components to your operation, you know, the seed chemical fertilizer, those main inputs that you have to go out and buy every year and you have to deal with on an annual basis. So make sure that you lock those down as far as knowing where those prices are. Obviously, rent is another big component there if you have to rent ground, knowing what your land costs are. So when you're looking at that, by this time of year, a lot of people have their prices locked in or have a very good idea of what they are. So use those actual expenses and use a little bit of cushion for overage that you may have if you don't have it on already or you have to make any in season decisions to, you know, add some fertilizer to those crops and try to increase that yield. So looking at those types of things, make sure you're building a little bit of cushion there. Also look at, you know, starting with what you have last year, you know, what did you spend on chemical? What's that going to look like compared to this year? What did you spend on repairs last year? Fuel, everything across the board. As I mentioned earlier, you have the tax returns. Use those as tools when you're building your budgets going forward, both on the income and expense side of things. So the other thing that a lot of farmers don't take into account when they're looking at their budgets and don't build into their cashflow budgets going forward is their equipment costs, their equipment costs and their overhead. You know, you want to get paid for your work. You know, the farmers want to make sure that they make a return for their time and their effort. Make sure you build in enough cushion so that you get a return to management for your operation, a return to land that you own already. You want to make sure you're generating a return for that and figuring your depreciation costs. Obviously you're figuring in fuel and repairs, but are you figuring in what the cost is to replace those pieces of equipment? They're not going to last forever. So make sure you're building in some cushion there and building in plenty of wiggle room for yourself and your operation to be able to expand and make the decisions unique going forward. Awesome. So what benchmarks should farmers use to evaluate their projected expenses? Yeah, there's a number of tools out there. So there's a few universities that have reports that come out annually that kind of talk about what the expenses are in the market for different parts of the operation. And then when you look at a number of other things, use yourself as a benchmark. You know, what have you done historically? You know, what are, what have your operating expenses looked like year over year? How do those compare to this year? And then utilize the team advisors that we talked about earlier. You know, how does that compare? Talk to your lender, talk to your banker, talk to your seed rep, your agronomic advisors, you know, whoever you're working with and figure out what the norm is. You know, am I paying too much for this type of stuff? What's normal in the market? What's it been historically? Do I need to adjust my rates? You know, things like that, that you want to take into account to make sure that you're meeting the budget criteria that you set for, and that you can accomplish the goals that you want to reach for. Awesome. And so, you know, this is a question I think that everyone can relate to. What steps can farmers take to reduce their 2022 expenses? Yeah, obviously that's a big challenge this year with the increase in prices that we're going to look at, but this is more of a long-term topic as well. So what can you do year over year to be able to reduce some expenses when you're looking at building these things? Obviously, there's always a lot of fat in anybody's budget that they want to make sure they build in. So build a budget that works. Build a budget that makes sure it has enough cushion and it still works if you're guessing your expense is high. And then figure out throughout the year are the things that you can make adjustments on. Obviously, the agronomic advisors out there, they're going to have a lot of information on whether that's variable rate applications, variable rate fertilizer, seating, things like that that will reduce costs overall. So those are definitely things that we need to be considering, things that you need to be talking to your advisor team about to build in ways to reduce your costs. Reviewing your rental agreements if you have them out there, taking a look at those. Are there things that can be adjusted so that they're fair to both you and the landlord if you rent ground? And just looking at little pieces of your operation, obviously repairs, parts. Everything goes into that operation. Everything goes into that budget to be able to cut back certain expenses. It's not going to be one major expense item that somebody can cross off their list when it comes to the agriculture operations. It's a lot of little things that you have to make adjustments on. Awesome.