Wheat Harvest 2025 near Vernon Texas | Gleaner Combines
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VStVjh5qPDc
Autos & Vehicles
 Welcome to the Mike Less Farmhand Mike YouTube channel. A farming and outdoor channel I started in February of 2012 with over 1,800 videos now available on my channel. And thanks to you, my channel has now grown to over 200,000 subscribers, has over 113 million total views, and over 13 million hours of watch time. I am filming and uploading new content all the time, so tag along for the ride. In this video, I am out in a wheat field just east of Vernon, Texas, out here with Johnson Farms and Wilson Harvesting. There will be a total of seven Gleaner S-98 combines, all with Macdon FD240 Draper heads in this video. However, the field I'm in has three of those S-98s running in it, and this is the last field of wheat they had in this area. Between the two crews, they were also running two Massey Ferguson 8735 S-series tractors with under-first 1620 grain carts. At the end of this video, everybody will regroup and have everything parked in one spot. Now, in this field, if you look way, way in the background there, you may see the other Gleaner combines running. These guys started their harvest journey in this Vernon, Texas area. They do have some more acres to do on the other side of Vernon with stripper heads. I'll have a video of that coming in the near future as well. Once they finish the wheat in this area, they will work their way north all the way to Montana for wheat. Then they will come back south and harvest fall crops. This video is pretty much limited to just drone footage as they were finishing up the last field here. A storm was brewing, and that's all I had time to get. Quit talking, and we'll watch these guys harvest. We'll see you next time. We'll see you next time. We'll see you next time. We'll see you next time. We'll see you next time. We'll see you next time. We'll see you next time. We'll see you next time. We'll see you next time. We'll see you next time. So, let's go. So, let's go. So, let's go. So, let's go. So, let's go. So, let's go. So, let's go. So, let's go. So, let's go. So, let's go. So, let's go. So, let's go. So, let's go. So, let's go. So, let's go. So, let's go. So, let's go. So, let's go. So, let's go. So, let's go. So, let's go. So, let's go. So, let's go. So, let's go. So, let's go. So, let's go. So, let's go. So, let's go. So, let's go.