How Much Do Farmers REALLY Earn Each Year!?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vT5TrBqQ9XU
Entertainment
 The amount of money a farmer makes is normally determined by the sort of farmer they are, the amount of land they own, and the type of product their farm produces. Most farmers earn a moderate income that allows them to maintain a good quality of living, regardless of where they live. Let's break down some farming industries and have a better look at their income and living potential. Rural Farmers Everyday rural farmers, as we like to refer to them, are people who own a small farm in the country and make between $20,000 and $36,000 per year, which isn't a lot of money, but their living expenses are much lower than those living in cities and populated areas with only a little food, utilities, and some basic farm supplies, and whatever luxuries they want to keep them entertained in their spare time. It's a nice, uncomplicated way of life, but it doesn't give much stability as people become older and working the farm becomes less viable, and it doesn't provide much additional money to invest, save, or spend on holidays and other things. This low pay is largely due to rural farmers using older crop farming techniques passed down through the generations, as well as having somewhat ethical living conditions for animals they may be raised for slaughter sale, resulting in lower yields of both crops and livestock per acre of land and time spent. This isn't to suggest it's a terrible thing. Such concessions improve the farmer's quality of life, but also reduce their revenue somewhat. These farmers live a very modest life with plenty of spare time, which they often invest in farm improvements. But they don't regard their farm as an investment or business most of the time, instead of treating it as a way of life. Small niche farmers. This refers to farmers who run a tiny plot of land as a business, a genuine business, rather than a way of life. They make up around 4 out of every 100 farmers, and they grow a lot of the most expensive veggies and herbs. Think rosemary, basil, organic kale, alfalfa sprouts, turmeric root, ginger, parsley, and so on. However, maintaining a farm like this requires a lot more work because it necessitates meticulous planning, organization, and supply chain logistics knowledge. And you'll have to work your tail off almost constantly, as you have a couple of very knowledgeable, trusted partners who can assist in certain areas of the business, such as sales, harvesting, and packaging. Unless you get inventive with land you already have access to, rent, own, and adequate expertise, you'll need tens of thousands of dollars and a year of free time to research and carry this out. Because of the outrageously high yield, you can do this just about anywhere, even in a large backyard, and make a lot of money. And because of the techniques, you can easily farm in most climates throughout the world all year. Industrial crop farmers. These are the big guys who control tens of thousands of acres of land worth millions of dollars. They account for roughly two out of every 100 farmers due to the industry's extreme concentration, while providing far over half of all fresh food in the U.S. Due to the sheer size of these farms, they frequently require complex machinery and technology, a lot of chemicals and fertilizers, and advanced irrigation technology to maintain and keep the crops going. And the owners profit handsomely as a result. On average, each acre they own brings in $400 to $700 per year. But after all the overhead and expenditures, it returns frequently only $50 to $200 per acre. This may not seem like much, but when you multiply it out, the farm owner may expect to make $50,000 to $200,000 each year, more or less assured, thanks to crop insurance and futures contracts that ensure they can sell the crop at a set price when it's ready to be harvested. They also pay down their land debt by $5,000 to $15,000 plus every month, increasing their net value if they ever decide to sell their farm. This may seem great, but it needs extensive knowledge of financial markets, large sums of money to acquire the necessary equipment and land, and a high level of risk, making it only appropriate for the very rich and well-educated, as well as medium-sized businesses. Large multinational businesses worth billions of dollars, on the other hand, are more likely to do so, leasing land from landowners for decades at a time while retaining 60 to 70% of their earnings. The living circumstances aren't really possible to be spoken about because of the outsourced mechanical character of this part of farming. When needed, harvesting and outsourced labor typically does not have very acceptable working circumstances, but farmers and landowners frequently conduct planting, if at all, in a comfortable AC GPS-controlled semi-automated tractor, though they're not sweating at all. Factory Farm Farmers Almost all meat, dairy, and eggs are produced on these farms, the truly overcrowded, filthy hellholes for animals, come at a cost. That cost of suffering is a reduction in the farmers' operational costs. These factory farm businesses make a killing, figuratively and literally. But due to the increasing greed of the capitalist overlords who have a tight grip on the industry, you're completely at their mercy, and they could put you out of business, upset your business, or make you massively successful, depending on how much they like you, and how much you entice them, contribute to lobbying groups they support. Farmers like these can lose all they own if they speak out against the industry, or they can make $300,000 a year if they're morally bankrupt and the company's cronies stuff their pockets in exchange for loyalty. It's a toss-up. 65% of farmers in this group are fighting to make ends meet, 5% are doing exceptionally well, and 30% are doing okay, upper-middle class, without having to do much labor other than the psychological strain of operating such a harsh business, which many warriors experience. Dairy farmers. Dairy farms constitute an important aspect of agriculture. Any dairy farmers produce and sell cheese, yogurt, and butter made from their cow's milk, as well as meat from retired cows. A dairy farmer's earnings will vary greatly depending on a number of things. In the United States, for example, the average annual salary for a dairy farm owner is about $43,000. This works out to be a bit more than $21 per hour. Might not make the median as a first-time farmer. You could make mistakes, and you might not be ready for everything. Natural catastrophes or other misfortunes may quickly knock you out of business, both monetarily and in terms of output. Some dairy farmers can earn $50,000 or more per year. Might be less depending on your investments and the cost of living in the area where you plan to set up your farm. The income from your product is what's left after you've paid overhead and other associated expenditures, just like in any other firm. The milk product, as well as the cows themselves, are profitable. Expenses range from feed and transport to veterinary care and maintaining equipment while paying workers. Most people think of milk when they think of a dairy farm. There are many other goods that originate from their dairy and numerous things that are sold for profit in addition to milk. Some dairy farms provide products other than class 1 drinking milk, depending on the type of animal, the volume produced, and the nutritional levels in the milk. Dairy producers may also make money by selling off their milking cows. Lactating dairy cows can range in price from $300 to $2,000 per cow, based on a variety of factors such as age, production history, calf output, and breed. Supplemental revenue can be generated by calves born in a dairy. Many of the males are sold to be used in veal or beef production. Females are either kept for dairy production, utilized to expand the herd, or sold to other dairies for $450 to $600 for each cow. They can also be purchased by weight. The size of the herd needed to establish a dairy will determine how many dairy cows you need to buy. Dairy cows that are already producing a reasonable amount of milk may be purchased for between $900 to $3,000. Dairy cows may cost hundreds of thousands of dollars to buy and maintain. Expect to give 1.5 to 2 acres per cow if you're purchasing or leasing property for cows, which might rapidly add up if you have a large herd. Due to the high beginning expenses of a dairy, it may take longer to turn a profit. Fish farming, aquaculture. Fish farming typically entails cultivating a range of aquatic species in their enclosure, such as a tank or pond, such as fish, mollusk, shrimp, and so on. Because of the health advantages of their overall demand for meat in animal products, the demand for fish and fish products is increasing nowadays. For starters, fish is a good source of protein and fat. Fish aquaculture is undeniably lucrative. There's especially true at the lowest end of the food chain where they employ inexpensive yet healthy foods. Except for a few species, all Indian and Chinese fish are herbivores, which means they cost less. For example, a fish farmer spent $60,000 on a pond and purchased 1,500 fish species for $20 a piece. Spend an average of $250 maturing them before selling them for $300 to $500 a piece. Some of the excellent things he received back there were like that. You should be aware that in the first year of your fish farming business, regardless of the type of fish you raise, you may not actually be making a profit due to the cost of pond construction, water management and maintenance, and the cost of a few other assets that you may incur in starting your fish business. As always, thanks for watching.