See How Agritourism is Transforming Local Farms and Boosting Entrepreneurship!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vuHWSk0aoPE
Education
 Hey, Lee here with Seven Sparrows Farm, and in this video we are talking about agritourism, and we actually sat down with Amy Burr from Poplar Farms. Now, Amy and her husband Chris actually run this working farm in Tennessee. They have an Airbnb tiny home, they offer farm stays and farm experiences, and we just kind of talked through her journey from kind of start to where they are now, and she goes over just all kinds of different things that I think will really help you if you're looking to go along this similar journey. So we'll go ahead and get started now, and I hope you enjoy. So we moved here to the farm, and we lived in a camper for almost a year, and at the end of that year we began to build a small cabin. My oldest kid built it for us with his wife, and of course we all helped out, but he named it the Big Tiny. So we lived in the Big Tiny for over a year and a half. It's 600 square feet, but it felt like a mansion compared to living in 240 square feet, and we loved it, and we even thought about that just being home. We have six kids, and they're getting married, and we could only fit one couch in there, so we started dreaming about building another house, but we thought this would be a great place for the kids to stay when they come to the farm. One of our goals is that this would be our main, the farm would be something that we did for a living. And right now my husband has the off-the-farm job, which is pretty common for people that are homesteading, but someone that does Airbnb with one of their guest houses said, you should totally put that on Airbnb, and I'm like, nobody's going to drive out here. Stay at the Air, you know, the Big Tiny. And sure enough, it's paying my mortgage, and people love it, and they want to come to a place that's very different from where they're at, and I don't really do much of anything but communicate with them before they come, set expectations for noise, and then ask how I can help them while they're here, and they come, and they love it. And it's one of the agritourism pieces of our farm, to the point where I thought, we could build a couple more of these, and we love people, but I'm an introvert, so I love you, and I want you to go away. So it works for me. So one of the things that we offer through Airbnb is what we call add-ons, experiences you can have here on the farm. So you can do a farm tour, you can milk a goat, you can help feed the animals. When we have gardens in, you're welcome to come and learn about gardening. It's another way to monetize what we do and educate people. And so in the farm tour, we talk about our story and how we're not farmers. We don't come from farmer families, but we love to learn. And so we just found people that we felt like were headed in the direction we wanted to head and started learning from them. And we made a lot of mistakes and we still do. So this is Maisie. She's number five in the Bird Kid lineup. She's 11, and she's the one that does the farm tours for our guest at the Airbnb. It takes about an hour. She is fabulous. She's super articulate. It takes her list of things to say to help her remember. But we get tons of great feedback from folks. Maisie, what's your favorite part of the farm tour? Probably getting money. Getting money. Okay, so getting money. And what are you doing with the money? I want to get a pony. A pony. Yeah. And I like to take guests around. Yeah. Yeah. It's fun to get to meet new people. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Thank you. So