How To Grow The BIGGEST SWEETEST CARROTS Of Your Life!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vV-_6ovp8pU
Howto & Style
 What's going on, gardeners? On today's 2 Minute Garden Tip, I'm going to show you two tips to grow the biggest, sweetest carrots you've ever had. The sugar content of the carrots that you harvest is directly proportional to the coolness of the weather in which you harvest them. That's nothing more than a fancy way of saying that carrots that ripen in cool temperatures are much sweeter than carrots that ripen in warm temperatures. The cooler the weather you pick your carrots, the sweeter they are. The warmer the weather, the starchier they are. Here in Zone 8A, North Carolina, I plant my carrots in fall in two different plantings because I want them to ripen during late winter and early spring when the temperatures are still cool. For best results growing carrots, make sure you consult the days to maturity on the seed packet and plant your carrots so they will ripen when the temperatures are in the 50s and 60s during the day and in the 30s and 40s during the night for the best, sweetest carrots possible. Then, to grow the largest, straightest carrots you have ever grown in your entire life, it is imperative that you grow them in loose, loamy soil. A raised bed garden is the perfect place to grow carrots because any resistance or rocks in the soil will lead to stunted, lumpy, and bumpy carrots. These are all grown in pure turkey compost with no rocks in the loosest soil possible. And just look at that right there. That is the perfect carrot. And there's plenty more where that came from. Those are some beauties right there. And I know what you're thinking. How on earth could carrots this enormous be sweet? They're absolutely gigantic. They must be tough. But I'm telling you right now... Mmm. Because they ripened in February when it's still really cool out during the day and downright cold out at night, they are absolutely fantastic. These are crisp as crisp can be. Just listen to them. Amazing. Those two tips will give you the biggest, sweetest, most delicious carrots you've ever had. And that's today's 2-Minute Garden Tip. If you're new to the channel, please consider subscribing and hitting the bell to receive new video notifications. And check out our Amazon storefront and spread shop in the video description for a list of the gardening products I use and awesome custom-designed apparel and other gear. Your support is greatly appreciated.