Spinach Farming (Lesson 4) - Water
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VvKAq4W2XDM
Education
 Music Once you have established your crop in the nursery, of course the next big consideration would be the water because the spinach crop has to get water so that it can be able to grow and can be able to grow profitably. And therefore water requirement is also very important. And here we are looking at irrigation and the next year we are looking at is rain fed and also we look at the water quality. And when you are looking at irrigation, we are looking at maybe you are near a water source. You must be, for irrigation to happen, you must be near a water source, a permanent water source or maybe you may be having a permanent water source like a borehole. And permanent water sources you are looking at maybe a dam, a river, a lake, or maybe of course a pan where maybe water is collected, a collection pan that has water throughout. And then we are looking at even, we may have even projects that is community project water that is permanent and it is allowed for crop irrigation and so forth. And therefore once you have all those water sources then irrigation becomes feasible. And here when you are looking at the, when you are looking at irrigation there are many, there are many, many methods of irrigation that may be at your disposal. And one of them is overhead irrigation using sprinklers. Spinach crop is a crop that can tolerate, unlike maybe something like tomatoes, spinach is a crop that can be able to tolerate sprinkler irrigation. So here we are talking about, about the overhead irrigation. Also we are looking about drip. So once you have the method of irrigation, maybe you have a dam or maybe you have some water. And here maybe you are looking at either the water may be limiting or maybe the labor may be too expensive. That's when we are looking at the drip so that you can go to minimize the water. Because for the drip you find that if this is the drip line, spaced maybe one foot and then you establish your spinach here. So you are going to find this area, there is no water that will be dropped. But here there is a hole that usually drops the water directly where the crop is. And therefore minimizing or conserving the water. And you just open from the main tank and therefore there is no labor in terms of irrigation. Where irrigation is concerned. And apart from this, we also have farrow irrigation. And here in terms of farrow irrigation, we are going to find that you can be able to have a water source such that once you pump water from the water source, you can have water draining like that, then drain like that, such that you can have water at the farrow with the water going this way. And then this is one trench, you can have maybe a long trench and then you have the spinach planted along the farrow. Similar thing, once water goes this way, we have the main one here, the main water canal here, or the main farrow here. Then this farrow goes into that line. Then once it reaches here, then you open here, then it goes to this other one. Once this is watered very well, you close, then it goes to this other one. So that is a farrow irrigation that can also be done in this respect. And also we have basin, basin irrigation. And here basin irrigation is basically the same thing that is usually done in onions. And here we have your land organized into basins. You have your land organized into basins. There may be many depending on the size of the land. And then you have the water now that comes now from the main canal, from the main forest. This is still farrow and basin irrigation. These are the basins and of course the farrow that will bring the water. So the water comes, these and then there is an opening here. And then this basin is fed. And here of course we have your spinach crop planted, the spacing. And of course the spacing that we are talking about, the spacing of 30 centimeters square. 30 centimeters by 30 centimeters. So planted here. And then once this is fed, you close here, then close here, and water goes into this basin. Once this is done, you close here, open here, then water comes. Then close here, then water will come into this basin. Once this basin is fed, you close here, you open here, then water goes into this basin. So once this is fed, open here, then water still comes, feeds this. You close here, of course, feeds this, then close. It feeds this, then close, then water goes down until the final bed. So once it feeds the final basin, then of course you can close here, and then you can proceed if you have other basin. So once the whole farm is fed, then you close the main canal. And of course the main canal, the water will go to the main canal or into the main river. Or of course you just close the water pump. Irrigation is usually complemented by the rain fed. Because once rain is available, especially when it rains, you are going to find at that moment you are not going to do irrigation. But you may find in some areas where rain may not be sufficient, and therefore you have to complement the rainfall with the irrigation. Of course those are high altitude areas where the rainfall pattern is predictable, and also the rainfall that usually the area receives is reliable. And therefore that is done. And of course the other part is water quality, and this mainly depends on the irrigation water. It may not be rain fed, but it is usually the irrigation water. And mainly what we can call the river, the permanent river water source. Because the river is coming from higher areas, and those higher areas you may find maybe they may be some urban establishment. And of course the urban affluent may be coming to this river. And you may find maybe there are other farmers that are growing upstream. And upstream they may be growing the same spinach. And some of the diseases, soil diseases such as root rot, may get into this water. And once you irrigate with this water, it goes into your land. And therefore it is an important consideration. And one thing you do is you can check what is being grown in the upstream so that you are able to know what kind of challenges you may get once you grow the spinach crop. The other challenge you may have is, I mean the other thing you may do when looking at water quality is you look at other farmers around your locality who are growing the spinach and the challenges they are getting. So that you know beforehand what you expect. But of course we have water testing. You may test your water mainly to know the pH in which your water has. And the water testing labs are going to advise if maybe the pH is too high or too low, they are going to advise what you can do. But basically if this water maybe it is used for domestic use and also the water is used for animal use and it doesn't have a lot of affluent or maybe it is not in this research, it is not dirty water or maybe polluted water. Then it is still water that is good for irrigation. But basically those are the consideration in terms of the water quality. You may find also for spinach you may find some instances where some nematodes. Nematodes are insects that usually attack the spinach especially on the roots and they may come through the irrigation water. So even the testing may also test for such aspects as a nematode, the concentration of nematode in such water. One of the ways we can be able to check whether the soil has enough water is usually scratch the surface. For example, you just remove some section of the ground. You just remove the top soil on the cover, the covering soil. Then deep down you can grab the soil. Then you can hold it with your hand like this. If it holds together it has water. But if it crumbles then it will mean it lacks water and you need to add more water. For example, as you can be able to see, it is not crumbling. Meaning the water is sufficient but still not very sufficient because when you put some pressure on it it crumbles. So this particular soil needs some water so that the plant can still continue growing. Coming up lebih 감사합니다. Think about growing. So that within a little of it is a texture which could just destructive. It will make sense of its plastic or its plant. Can it drop as9 or most mitochondria or topspirit surface to an engine. The cover has the same thing So like in a 요즘 water so let's doierance it to be around. But in this case I have to remove those in the water here and some way to get the poor brands so we can find a simple and clean energy usingağı-style. Whereas in the water its' podemos? Presentingorden is圳ten the first time and central in water their fertile geez. So some other Tok windows are increased Oliveira. As we can be able to say we can grow your eyes.