Tractor Supply Hay Bale
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vZ7MaZV2VZM
People & Blogs
 The thumbnail on this video scary isn't it? It doesn't look like it's recording anything right now it just has my ugly picture. Anyway, yeah. So my dad's in the hospital again. Gosh, I'm worried. And well, 3,000 miles away, no money, can't go visit him. All I can do is wait for my sister to message me on Facebook Messenger or call. Sucks. I was just a tractor supplying twice in the last three times now. They didn't open the gate all the way so I couldn't back in. I'm hoping this is the right bail. You know, last time, last time I think it might have been, but I thought it was wrong and went back. I backed in and they gave me another bail and that bail was the wrong bail. And it was, uh, it was grass. But I have to tell you it lasted longer than the alfalfa. The alfalfa, the goats that go through that in four days, some of it they spill. The grass, I think it lasted a week or close to a week. But, uh, for a while there, they were just spilling that everywhere and laying in it. And the male goat Frisco, he kind of does that. He eats some, but it just lays everywhere and he lays in it. And the girls were eating it more than they regularly were. But anyway, I hope it's alfalfa this time. It kind of looks suspicious, but I must say that it is smaller than usual. It fit in the trunk without them stuffing it in. I think their bales of tractor supply are a little overpriced. I'm going to go to the next for their size. Like I said, once before I was getting them from people around town from anywhere from $250 to $5 for bales of hay that size. I got an update from my sister here. So I'm going to go. My previous two videos not pertaining to this. I did two other live videos. One was just waiting for a troll to show up and I forget what the other one was. I put them as unlisted for now. I might pop them back on here. But I'm going to go and read what my sister has to say. I'm generally upset and worried about my dad. If you have family, don't move far away from them, intentionally or not. I mean, it wasn't my intention to be out here the rest of my life. I just haven't been able to make a living in this town. I mean, there was a couple of times where I had a shot at it and it backfired. First time wasn't my fault. Second time was. But anyway, geez, I thought I'd have a video here, but it's just my ugly picture at a bad angle, bad lighting. But even with good lighting and a good angle, I'm not that good looking. So yeah, anyway, enjoy the rest of the day. I still don't have a viewer and that's okay. I don't really give a flying fart. I only have 38 subscribers. I don't know if anybody even uses YouTube anymore. I've never attempted to make money off of YouTube. I've never, you know, really. And people that have, ones like Richoff, that are finding out now that YouTube is collapsing and they're unmonetizing like people's videos. So some of these schmucks that have become millionaires after their money runs out, they're going to have to be like me and find menial jobs. Good luck to them because a lot of them are young people that have never done anything a day in their lives. Anyway, I'm going to go and see how my dad is doing now. It says reconnecting. Hold on now. All right. That was the recording. My dad has his arteries blocked. You know, he had so many surgeries on his arteries and his leg. And 18 years ago, they amputated his leg below the knee. Now I probably have to do it above. I'm going to go and charge up the phone and empty all this stuff out of the car and some breakfast and take care of the animals. I'm going to wait for my sister to tell me how my dad's doing. I'm going to wait for my sister to tell you. So, uh, see you around. Dang it. Every time I try to stop streaming, it pops up for a message on the screen. All right. Are you sure you want to stop streaming? That would be a yes. Good man. Peace. Peace. Thanks. Peace. Peace. Peace. Peace. Peace. Peace. Peace. Peace. Peace. Peace. Peace. Peace. Peace. Peace. Peace. Peace. Peace. Peace.