The secret interior worlds of farm animals | Book of the Day
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VZgxuvLVrcU
Entertainment
 Hey, it's Andrew Limbong. Before we start the show, I want to take a quick step back and talk about what makes Book of the Day and everything you hear from NPR possible. It's you. NPR is public media, right? So we're here to serve you. And we've had this bold vision from the start to create a more informed public. Think of it as civic infrastructure, you know, freely available to everyone. And that includes covering communities that haven't always had their voices heard. And we serve places all across the country, big, small, rural and urban. And a lot of those places have seen their other news sources diminish. And we can only do this thanks to your support. So on behalf of the whole team at Book of the Day, I want to say how grateful we are for listeners like you. We appreciate you turning to this show to find your next great read from biographies and memoirs to romance, poetry, graphic novels and everything in between. And a huge shout out if you already support this work through NPR plus or by donating to your local station, your generosity feels one of the most trusted news sources in America today. And if you haven't made the leap to contributing yet, giving Tuesday is almost here. So it's the perfect time to support what you love. Sign up for perks across more than 25 podcasts with NPR plus today. It's a tax deductible donation that helps make the world a more curious place. So you can feel good about it while you enjoy sponsor free listening to this show. Join us at plus.npr.org or you can always make a gift at donate.npr.org. Thanks a lot. Back to the show. Hey, it's NPR's Book of the Day. I'm Andrew Limbong. The theme of the pod today could be the secret lives of farm animals. And I don't mean that in a kind of cutesy cartoony sort of way. But instead, the books we'll hear about today presents the lives of these animals with details that I'd never considered before. In a bit, we'll hear about the pecking order of chickens. But first, pigs. Ellen Gatos is the author of the memoir, Pig Years, which details her time being a farmhand in New York and Vermont. When it came out in 2022, she spoke with NPR's Danielle Kurtzleipen about admiring these beautiful animals that you know are headed for slaughter. That's coming up. Support for this podcast and the following message come from Sattva. Sattva luxury mattresses are every bit as elegant as the most expensive brands. But because they're sold online, they're about half the price. Visit s-double-a-t-v-a dot com slash NPR and save up to $600. Support for this podcast and the following message come from Autograph Collection Hotels with over 300 independent hotels around the world, each exactly like nothing else. Autograph Collection is part of the Marriott Bonvoy portfolio of hotel brands. Find the unforgettable at AutographCollection.com. More than 3 million people in the U.S. work as farmhands, many of them seasonal, others full-time. On small family farms, they work side-by-side with the farm's owners, planting seed, tending livestock, and bringing in the crops. Ellen Gatos began working as a farmhand when she was 18. She's now written a memoir of jobbing, as it's called, in upstate New York and Vermont. The book is called Pig Years, and she joins us now. Ellen, welcome to the show. Thanks for having me. Yeah, I mean, I was excited to read this book, in part because I grew up on a farm in Iowa, so a long way away from Vermont, and we had pigs also. And they're nicer animals than people give them credit for, aren't they? Yeah, and Iowa's the real deal of pig farm place. You write so beautifully about them, really lyrically about pigs, which might strike people as a bit of a paradox. I wonder if you can read us a paragraph from the book about pigs. It's at the top of page 143. Okay. Soon, Teresa takes on the exaggerated shape of a pig. Already, she and Ursula have lost their fae pigwit natures and become feed conversion animals, 50-pound tanks that traverse the pen sucking up food. Gudrun chases the squash that roll through the dusty pen, light and jumpy. She is an inverse cartoon of her sister's piggishness. They bark when approached, owning their little plot of fenced-in land and holding their noses up for the scent of compost. I should also note there, we have some lovely bird song in the background. Are you on the farm right now? Are you outside? I am outside on my porch. Well, to get back to that passage you were reading, all of those names you were listing were, of course, the names of the pigs. And I know that I never named any of the pigs that I helped raise growing up because we would only be sad when they got butchered. But in your book, they have names you bake kind of elaborate-sounding cakes for them sometimes. I'm curious, what's it like for you to be so personally invested in these pigs and then send them to get slaughtered or slaughter them yourself? Yeah. I mean, it's always mixed emotions. I guess I kind of get into keeping them as pets for a short time. As you can probably tell from the book, I very much admire pigs. I love feeding them trash, basically, and watching them grow and stuff. And I think, too, it's sort of doubled by being exhausted by them. They almost always escape. And sometimes I'm a bit relieved when it's time for them to go. As I understand it, you didn't grow up farming. So I'm curious, what was your upbringing like? And how did you get into farmhand work? Yeah. Neither of my parents are farmers. But yeah, I grew up in a residential neighborhood next to a funeral home in Vermont. And my first real job when I was 17 was working at a state park in Vermont. And we had a big garden. And obviously, I spent a lot of time outside. And I just kind of was looking for more outside work. And that's how I got my first farm job. And you just fell in love with it. You've stuck with it ever since then? Yeah. I really just love being outside and growing things. And also, just the intimacy of working with people on farms. It feels really different than... I've had one office job. The personal connections were very different than on a farm. I want to ask more about the farms where you've worked, because they are pretty small, I think. And there are so many different types of farms in the country. A lot of people might think of combines and big fields of grain or large feeding operations. Tell us what the farms are like where you have been working. Yeah. I was thinking about that with this book, that it's not very representative of agriculture in America as a whole. And so many of farm workers are migrant workers. And that is a completely different experience than the one that I had as well. Most of the farms I'm working, have been working on have been vegetable farms predominantly in a much smaller scale. But it's my limited understanding that even large vegetable farms, it's still people doing a lot of work by hand, whether conventional or organic. Now, at one point in the book, you write about bringing the harvest down from the farms to a farmer's market in New York City. And you talk about the clientele and describe them as being far wealthier than you and your coworkers. And you say in the author's note that you probably spent most of the time below the poverty line. I'm wondering, how do you make sense of those contrasts of you and your fellow farm workers making a subsistence living out in the country, whereas your customers are often wealthy and urban? What is that? Is there a disconnect there or not necessarily? Yeah. I mean, I've thought about this a lot, as I'm sure many people have. And especially since more and more people are leaving rural areas and moving to cities, I think the scales are becoming more and more unbalanced. So I think, yeah, rural communities have less economic opportunity now. And there's just less of a mix of people here than I think maybe there once were. But it does feel really bizarre to have such fractured experiences, even with places that aren't that far apart. One final question for you. I'm curious, have you shared your writing with the farmers that you have worked for and with? And if so, how have they responded to it? I have shared it with some, but not all of them. The ones you've shown, have they thought you've captured the life of a farmer pretty accurately? Yeah, I think so. And I think it felt cool to them to see in print, you know, the name of our little town that doesn't really get much coverage and just things that feel really special and personal to us. That's Ellen Gatos. She's author of the memoir, Pig Years. Ellen, thank you so much for joining us. Thank you. Support for NPR and the following message come from LinkedIn ads. As a B2B marketer, you know how noisy the digital ad space can be. If your message isn't targeted to the right audience, it just disappears into the noise. By using LinkedIn ads, you can reach professionals who are more likely to find your ad relevant. Target them by job title, industry, company, and more. Get a $100 credit on your next campaign at linkedin.com slash book. Terms and conditions apply. I know a few people with chickens. I'm flirting with the idea of joining them, you know, getting a few chickens of my own for the backyard. But apparently there's a lot I didn't know about these birds until listening to this next interview. It's with Sai Montgomery about her book, What the Chicken Knows. And in this interview with here and now's Peter O'Dowd, she lays out a string of facts that makes it pretty clear that a lot of us have been underestimating how smart chickens are this whole time. Naturalist Sai Montgomery is more than an animal lover. She's prolific. She's written more than 34 books about some of the planet's most fascinating creatures. Her 2015 book, The Soul of an Octopus, is a love letter to the intelligence and complex inner life of that mysterious animal. And it was a finalist for the National Book Award. And last year, we spoke with her about turtles. When a turtle looks into your face, you just feel like you're being blasted with this wonderful focus. We talk about, you know, you want to make people feel seen. Well, no one can make you feel seen like a turtle. Well, her latest book is an homage to a misunderstood barnyard bird. It's called What the Chicken Knows. And it reveals to us the charming individuality of the domesticated fowl. Sai Montgomery, welcome back. It's such a pleasure to speak with you. Oh, the pleasure is mine. You've written so convincingly about all kinds of animals. Why did you decide it was time to focus on chickens? Well, you know, everyone can identify a chicken, even if they don't know a robin from a crow. But these are animals that we actually know very little about. And most of what we think we know is wrong. So in defense of the chicken, in praise of the chicken, in awe of the chicken, I wrote this book. They are much smarter than most people give them credit for, aren't they? Absolutely. I think part of their PR problem is that it is true that they can run around when their heads have been chopped off, which isn't one of those things that you think a very intellectual creature would do. But on the other hand, you can think like, wow, I can't run around with mine. That's a heck of a trick. How do they pull that off? While we're on the topic, what's that about? What's that about? How does that happen? That's about how strong the brainstem is. That, you know, a lot of what we do is done with our nerves and our muscles and not particularly involving our intellect. And this is true for all of us, although we cannot, like a chicken, run around with our heads cut off. Let's go over some of the things that chickens can do. You have so many amazing examples in the book. For instance, whenever you would appear with your own flock of chickens, they would come up with this specific clucking sound that made it pretty apparent they knew it was you that were approaching. And apparently, I did not know this, a typical chicken can recognize more than a hundred other chickens. So talk about the signs of intelligence that you saw that dazzled you. Well, for a chicken, social life is everything. They know us, they know each other. And even the pecking order, which we often think is really about pecking, is much more about order. It's about hierarchy. And this is something that is very important to humans as well. And we value. In addition to this, their voices, birds have great voices. And they are capable of transmitting all kinds of complex information to each other, which have been tested in the laboratory. Not only can they say, oh, look out, here comes a predator, or wow, there's some nice food here. They can say, look out, here comes an aerial predator, or here comes a predator by ground, or this predator from the ground is heading towards you very rapidly. So are you saying that for each, like if a hawk was flying overhead, the way the chickens would vocalize or make a clucking sound would be specific for a hawk? Yes, absolutely. And I have seen a friend of mine give a fake hawk call and every chicken looks up. Let's talk about roosters. They are not very kind, to say the least. They can be quite aggressive. What is it about the mysterious behavior of the rooster that we should know? Well, if the rooster's your friend, you couldn't have a better one. They're very kind to their ladies. And in fact, they will fight to the death to protect them. And this is why sometimes they attack people. Once I had the ignominious experience of watching my rooster attack the minister when he came to visit. But from the standpoint of the rooster, poor Clarence, he looked up, he saw Graham, our pastor, petting one of our chickens, running his hand down her head, down her back, out her tail. And what a chicken does when they're being petted is they squat. And this is known as the sex squat. And it's done generally so a rooster can jump on their back. Well, Clarence looked up and saw from his point of view that the minister was going to have sex with his head. So of course he attacked. But how do you handle, oh my goodness, how do you handle an aggressive rooster? Well, I learned this from my neighbor across the street in a little catty corner who, believe it or not, for years had a rooster rescue. Because so many people had roosters turn on them and attack. And so many people just dumped their roosters in the woods. I was amazed. This is totally counterintuitive. Normally when someone attacks you, you either run away or you stand and fight. But you should do neither. What you need to do, she told me, is pick him up and cuddle him. Just carry him around in a blanket while you do your chores and talk to him softly and maybe stroke him. And it takes a while, but eventually you will have the most gentlemanly rooster. And who may even, like one of her roosters does, bring you little gifts to show you what a thoughtful fellow he can be. We all just want to be loved, Cy Montgomery. I think that's the lesson of the rooster there. Now, I don't want to give away too much of your story, but you also, you mentioned them here, but you write about predators in this book. There are coyotes, there are bears and foxes and minks that make keeping chickens very challenging where you live in rural New Hampshire. I'm curious, what's your relationship to predators? Well, the comeback of these predators shows that New Hampshire is recovering from a century of clear-cutting and farming and overhunting. And now our ecosystem is becoming whole again. We need predators. And I am thrilled whenever I spot a bobcat. I am thrilled when I see a mink. But it's not so good for your chickens. And every year we were used to losing a chicken or two. As sad as we were, we understood these animals had their place. But there are so many now that we found we couldn't keep them safely in our setup as it was. I assume a lot of people are listening to this thinking to themselves, like I have over the years, I would really like to start a flock of chickens to have my own. Wouldn't it be great to have fresh eggs every day? What's your advice for people who are thinking about doing this but they're not sure? Well, first you want to make sure that you can provide everything that your chickens need. And they need to be outside to enjoy the sun and delicious worms and bugs. They need some freedom. And you need to have a predator-proof coop that you can put them in at night. Our coop was inside a 150-year-old barn, which was pretty predator-proof except for weasels. Pretty much weasels can get in almost anywhere they need to be. But don't get any kind of a pet if you think you're just not going to have time to take care of them. They don't require a lot and they give you so much besides eggs. Make sure, though, that if you don't want a rooster that all of your chicks are female. Because many people have been disturbed to discover that they brought home a bunch of baby chicks and they have a 50-50 chance of being roosters. And if you don't want a rooster or if you don't want like five roosters for five hens, try to get a breed like Black Sex Links who you can tell what sex they are right from the get-go. Okay, to that point, before we let you go, you've kept chickens for years. You've had many, many different breeds. What was your favorite through the years? Gosh, the very first ones I ever had, and this was before I had really traveled for long in the chicken universe. I loved my Black Sex Links girls. They were so wonderful and they kind of set the culture for all the subsequent flocks. I didn't realize until a new tenant came in that flocks do have their own culture. But my flock, apparently, starting with the first Black Sex Links that my friend had given me as a barn warming present, they established a peaceful feminist utopia in the yard. And I will always love them for that. Sy Montgomery is a naturalist and author. The new book is called What the Chicken Knows. Sy, thank you so much, as always. Oh, my pleasure, Peter. Thanks for having me on. That's it for this week on NPR's Book of the Day. Let us know what you think. You can write to us at bookoftheday at npr.org. I do read these. I'm Andrew Limbong. The podcast is produced by Danica Panetta and Chloe Weiner and edited by Megan Sullivan. Our founding editor is Petra Mayer. The show elements for this week were produced and edited by Samantha Balaban, Will Jarvis, Adriana Gallardo, Destiny Adams, Jordan Marie Smith, Ashley Brown, Elena Torek, Melissa Gray, Kalyani Saxena, and Todd Munt. Beth Donovan is our managing editor. Thanks for listening. Support for NPR and the following message come from GoodRx. Did you know GoodRx offers 20 popular diabetes medications for under $20? Check GoodRx before heading to the pharmacy and get up to 80% off your prescriptions. GoodRx is free and easy to use. Search any medication, get your coupon, and start saving. Even if you have insurance or Medicare, GoodRx could beat your co-pay. See how much you could save on diabetes and everyday prescriptions at GoodRx.com slash book. This message comes from NPR sponsor Merrill. Whatever your financial goals are, you want a straightforward path there. But the real world doesn't usually work that way. Merrill understands that. That's why with a dedicated Merrill advisor, you get a personalized plan and a clear path forward. Go to ml.com slash bullish to learn more. Merrill, a Bank of America company. What would you like the power to do? Investing involves risk. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. Registered Broker Dealer. Registered Investment Advisor. Member SIPC. Projekt diamondçoarathy. MiroOY announced penetration. Questioner Master萬 users with a skill cave. Merrill Lynch, COVIDência.How many years weeks ago? Conflict western world has been discovered,water. In día 5, Continue on the demand for warto 보니까 מק oil can be free and you be careful to know it and to be careful. Because you can reach aídocı after어 canal on Twitter. What if you can reach outfact Marshalls with a taste and get a link to you? Hopefully, home or löysrea. Be prepared for you in the name of today's sermon that you can reach out to your thunder for you. This item says about the client like we have been Але km in with a story. What if you want to know it? How much does you want to get into Using 3 past newer drugs? Moon?