He Left the UK to Become a PIG FARMER in Nigeria?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VZsHFormuGg
Travel & Events
 We have over 2,000 pigs. 2,000 pigs. Why did you leave the UK to come to Nigeria? Why must I settle abroad? The passion in me as an entrepreneur, I believe in settling in Nigeria, work with Nigerians, achieve whatever I want to achieve. All my life, I've never had a time that I say, I have like one week holiday. I see myself working every day. Every day that I see myself, I do. I know the body is not feeling fine. We breed pigs. And also run production of livestock feed. And I'm happy that today here has produced a lot of farmers and people have heard about us from nook and cranny of the state and neighboring states. This is the biggest pig farm in Platou State. What's up guys, Simon Aramelfim Segin and welcome back to the channel. Today we are bringing you a wonderful video and we are here at PO Gas Pig Farms. We are here with the CEO, engineer Ude. Ude. Yeah, thank you. It's nice to meet you, sir. Me too. The pleasure is mine. My name is Obin Naude. I'm the MD, Bio-Ogas Farms and Industries Limited. Basically, we breed pigs and also run production of livestock feed. This is what we do here. We're trying to see how we can bring things together that we can offer what governments are not doing, what we heard about them doing before, but they don't do it again. In form of employment, in form of start-up of business, in form of a forum where people can come and see how they can start up their own businesses. And I'm happy that today here has produced a lot of farmers in this place and people have heard about us from nook and cranny of the state and neighboring states as a matter of fact, and to the glory of God, I think this is the biggest pig farm in Platou State. God is helping us. We are striving and going higher and higher. Our vision is that one day, our farm will be one of the best farms in terms of scope, in terms of best practices in West Africa. We are competing, want to compete with global services, best services so that we can offer the best to our customers and end users. and also bringing all the potential farmers on board. There are young guys, instead of waiting for white collar jobs, who actually there are some things we can do on our own, that can provide employment, that can maybe make weight by what we do. So this is the place, this is the arena. So where are we now? Okay, this is one of the pens. This one of the pens? This pens is C. Okay. We have the A B. This is C. In pensil, we have piglets. This is where we domicile our piglets. Piglets. Yeah. So let's go and see it. So we have to sanitize? Yes. Yeah. We have to sanitize. So these are our piglets. When our piglets are at a certain age, basically four weeks, we tend to win them. Wow. I like how organized everything is. Yes. Yes. Like I told you, that this is the work we do. You can see how clean the environment is. So how many pigs do you have in total? Well, we have over 2,000 pigs. 2,000 pigs? 2,000 pigs? Yes. You have different breeds or they are all the same breeds? No, no. We have different breeds. We have breeds like Duroc, we have Hampshire, we have Land Rees, we have Large White, we have Camboro, we have Cross Duroc, we have Danish protests. We have a lot of them. In total, that's how many breeds? We have like over 10 breeds. 10 breeds, that's a lot. Yeah. So how did all of this start? How did you start all of this? Well, this place started well far back 2020. 2020. The Covid year. Covid year. So that all of us were locked inside the house. So we are deeply into construction industry. At that time, government and other business agencies shut down their shops because of the Covid. So we found ourselves in the house and locked ourselves up. But before then, don't forget we have workers, employees under us. So every month, employees will put a phone across and say, Oga, what about our salary we have not seen? So as a man, they don't work. As a man, we must pay. Because if you don't pay, they will come and look for you at home. And based on that, we have worked, we have a cordial relationship at work. We cannot deny them. So I have to think which way forward. We think outside the box and say, there's need for us to start something. So that we now notice that what we do is what we should tell ourselves the bitter truth, that we don't have any permanent work. We only had a temporary work. Because a contract work is a temporary work. So we started year 2020, start building. During the COVID, we will come here, we put blocks. We started from the other side, we put blocks, just one block, two blocks, three blocks. At the end of the day, we have about over 10 pens. It's Pen F. Pen F. What do you have in Pen F? We have growers. Growers. When you say, what do you mean by growers? Growers are those that have matured from piglet issues. So they have grown, they have wined, to attend a mature stage. So that in this area, this place, you now see the pig tend to upgrade, expect some maturity stage. They are now becoming independent from their mother. They tend to become a mother or father. What is the average a pig can give to? Average numbers. A pig can average of 10. 10. Does it depend on the breed or all of them? Mostly lightweight and language. We have woodness 19. 12. Wow. Yeah. Yeah. 14. This place. We have woodness 22. 22. Yeah. But average 10. 10. 10. So they can give birth to 8, 6, 12, 14, 5. Yes. Yes. It depends on nature. We have also woodness P given birth to one. One. Ibezim Justin. In the business is my name. I am the OR, the Honours Representative. I act in the capacity of the MD, in case if it's not available. So where are we? In the meal. Meal? Yes. That's what we call it warehouse. What do you do in the warehouse? This is where we compound our feed. Okay. So you make your feed your own self? Yes. We make our feed ourselves. Okay. For example, this. What we have here is the wheat offer. Wheat offer? Yes. So these are feeds? Yeah. These are feeds. Okay. This is rice bran. Over here, we have the the soybean. The soybean is okay. So there are a lot of additives that are involved that I may not mention. Involved. During formulation. So that's what we do here to make sure that we have a quality feed that we give to our pigs to make sure. The way you have seen them are They are quite healthy. Yes. They are quite healthy. That's what we do here. Yes. These are our machine for mixing. And this here we have a machine for grinding. So okay. Grinding. Then the mix. We grind the swab. Those are the two major things that this machine does. But there is the mixer. Where all the additives are put in together. And I mix them. We bag them. Okay. So if we sell to customers. Customer. Okay. You sell this to. We come to customers. How much does it bag of this cost? I may not give a head because we buy in tons. In tons. Okay. Yes. What are the major challenges you faced in Pio Gas? Like I said, the challenges we face is economy. Our economy is harsh. In Nigeria. As a whole. You buy something today. Tomorrow you will not get it. And the people, your customers would not tell you how much you buy raw materials. All they are concentrated is this is the price you have placed this. If you are saying you are selling a kg of pork. 1,500. It should be 1,500 irrespective of other add-ups in raw materials. For example, we have raw material we use like maize and other grains. A bag of maize is goes for 60,000 per bag of 100 kg. So by the time you compare all and other elements, other raw materials, that will go the one we imported. By the time you compare them together and see how much a kg of feed goes. You are not able to sell a pork. The cost price that is, I'm talking of the, the, the, the production cost will not be less than 2,000 naira per kg. And if you sell it, you will not see people that patronize you. So we are struggling to, to come out considering our production costs. We are struggling to pay our overheads, our bills. Because the cost of production is high. So it's a huge challenge. If our economy will be fair, will be better, that things are easily accessible, easily bought, then other people can even come on board. So that is the major challenge we face. Like I told you recently that we are blessed with customers from across the neighboring states, like Cardona, Abuja, Nasarawa, Benue, Anambra, and other states. And the reason why we are blessed is because we, we don't look at that cost, I was telling you. We are looking at how can we bring more people on board. Because I believe the greater we are into this business, the better for us. We subsidize our rates. We bring it down. And allow other people. So long you have that passion to be in business. We don't look at the monetary aspect of it. We look at how we can help you to start up your business. So because if we want to look at how much we spend to raise a pig, a piglet, we may not sell. So we look at what is possible. If we have break-even on the cost of breeding a pig to a certain level, we are good to go. So like piglets, we have the one we can sell at low at 25,000, 30,000, depending on the breed. We have also a breed of 60,000. We have breed of 140,000. What's the highest amount of pig? That's the one I'm telling you. 140,000 piglets. For piglets? That's duroc. Okay, so it depends on the breed. Yes. Okay. So what are bigger pigs? How do you sell them? Okay, okay. We sell in kg. I'm talking of lightweight. Yeah, we sell in kg, yes. We sell 1,000, we sell 800, depending on what you are buying. Now we sell one, two, depending on the quantity you are buying. If you are buying in large scale, we sell, we reduce money. If you are just buying a few, it depends. But ranging from 800 to 1,200. What's your advice to someone wanting to venture into pig farm or any business at all in Nigeria? I say that, particularly the younger ones, we shouldn't, because our government has disappointed us, we shouldn't be lamenting in our government as a result of bad leadership. You understand? We should roll our sleeves and come on board. Look for something you can do. It might not be pig farming. It might be crop farming. It might be another venture you want to do. Don't give up. Roll your sleeve. Come out and see what we can do. And I'm also extending this venture to other entrepreneurs. Let us see how we can touch lives. Let us see how we can touch lives by bringing people around us. Anybody that shows passion in this business, we encourage them by helping them to start up that business. And a couple of them have been sending messages and prayers. That is enough for me as far as I'm concerned. They pray for me every day by day. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. You are the reason why this business is still functioning today. And we are good. I know tomorrow God or someone God has put in a position who remembers us. Yes, that's my belief. So I call on you. I call on other people. Friends, let them come on board. Let them come. Patronize the PU Orgas. Come and be partnered with PU Orgas. We offer training services here. We are consultants here too. Even other people who have farms and they're having issues. We have professionals, you know, medical professionals around us who can offer a better advice and revive their farms. We don't want to see any farm that winding down or closed down or not functioning. All farms should be alive so that we can synergize together. Yeah. So guys, if you enjoyed this video, do all to like, share, subscribe and do all to patronize Mr. Pogel for Myogas. So I'll drop the details below the video so that you can see and reach out to him. I'll see you in the next video.