Your Farm: Legal ways to sell goods! Joel Salatin explains ways to sell meat from the homestead.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w23X5_ohzh0
People & Blogs
 when regulatory tyranny becomes bad enough circumvention is easier than compliance. We had a chance to speak with Joe Salatin at Homesteaders of America about marketing your farm products directly to your customers. Check it out. I got a quick question for you as far as marketing directly to customers from your farm. Okay, I know you've wrote in everything I want to do is illegal, you can farm and all those things, but if you're going to give a quick snippet as far as the most legal way or the easiest way to market directly from your farm to sell, let's say, beef and sheep, what would you say the most effective way to do this? Are you saying you're going to butcher it on your farm too? Yeah. Are you going to do the whole thing? Yeah. Okay, so... That's a deep one. Yeah, it is a deep one. Well, there are numerous schools of thought. Okay. One is, of course, the PMA, the Private Membership Association. Okay. There are kind of two denominations within the PMA umbrella. Okay. And so I'm not going to drill all into that. I'm just going to say that the Private Membership Association is an option, but it has policies. Okay. When you go to 400 members, pretty much courts have ruled that it's now public. Okay. So it starts to break down and scale. Okay. That's one of the issues. But for a hyperlocal market, that's a viable option. It's hyperlocal. Hyperlocal might be viable. Okay. Another is to sell an instructional video, for example, and give away meat as part of the client. Okay. So with this internet model and the ability to easily photograph stuff, you can easily sign up for this butcher who can, and we'll give you whatever. Okay. Okay. Another one is you can sell an animal live. There's no regulation that's on an animal live. Okay. And then you can part it out. Just remember, it's the same price live as dead. So where they'll get you is if somebody comes and says, I want to buy a live animal for the armor, and you price it differently than if somebody says, I want to buy a half a beef live, wink, wink, and butcher it for me. Yeah. If those prices are different, then they'll pierce that charade and get me. So if I came to you and said, hey, I want to buy a steer and butcher it myself, it's got to be the same price as if you butchering for me. Okay. So don't discriminate between the two activities. Don't discriminate between the two activities, or else it's not actually real. Okay. You can't charge for butchering. Right. Okay. So you can charge for a live animal, you can't charge for butchering. Right. So for example, I like with chickens. Yeah. If your people buy them live, let's say somebody wants 20 chickens, they can buy those chicks and then they can pay you a caretaker fee. Right. Okay. And the caretaker's fee includes butchering them and putting them in the bag. Okay. Okay. So again, you're not charging for that service. Now, if somebody comes and says, I want to buy a chicken lodge, take it home and butcher it, it's got to be the same price. Right. That's the consistent. It's got to be a package deal the whole way through. It's got to be consistent. Okay. Okay. It's got to be consistent. Interesting. There's a guy in Oregon, what he does is he has an agreement with a person where they buy the animal, they take meat and he takes the guts. Okay. Okay. And so he's butchering it for the guts. Okay. And giving the meat away. Okay. Okay. Yeah. And they've tried to close him down and they can't do it. He must like Kyle Hunt. He just wants the guts. Yeah. It just depends. Some people really, Yeah. Yeah. We have customers that use all the parts. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Well, he composted them, but yeah. Yeah. You know, it's all we're using for them. Yeah. Yeah. So, I mean, we, we, look, we all know it's a loophole. We all know it's an end run. Yeah. Yeah. It's a circumvention. But you know, there's a point at which when regulatory tyranny becomes bad enough, circumvention is easier than compliance. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And that's, of course, but that's, of course, the, you know, the back down the whole road food conflict. Can you say that one more time? When regulatory, when, when regulatory tyranny gets to a point, circumvention is easier than compliance. Okay. Circumvention over compliance. Yeah. You know, as long as you can rock along with it, you comply, you know, who wants to, who wants to fight? Right. Right. Can't fight everything all the time. But finally it gets to where it's so onerous. Yeah. Yeah. That a small operation or a direct or direct market operation. Yeah. Uh, can't jump through all the hoops or, or at least realistically jump through all the hoops. And then, and then actually the better response is how do we make an end run instead of trying to, you know, run through it. Yeah. Because you'll spend all your time trailblazing and you won't ever actually be able to make a difference in the community. Right. Now there's, you know, there, there are other, you know, as you, as you head down this, this app, uh, I don't know if I can, you know, think of all the options, but one is of course, that food. Yeah. That food is really a big deal now. You know, there's a lady in Wisconsin selling, uh, cheese. She actually is selling it as fishing. Okay. There's no regulations on fishing. Sure. So I'm selling fish. So she's got fish bait, Colby fish bait. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's like pet milk. Yeah. Yeah. Not for human consumption. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And so, so the whole pet milk thing has been a, see, here's the thing, the bureaucracy, they're here to protect us. Right. And so the beauty of the pet food thing has from a political, it's hard for me to even step into the mentality of a food police. Yeah. But, but when I try, I realized, oh, that absolves them of responsibility. Yeah. Now it's off their plate. Right. They don't care. Yeah. They're not neglecting the public. Yeah. Right. This isn't for human consumption. Yeah. Right. So that's one. So there's a few, um, and there are more coming, I'm sure. Yeah. Uh, as, as more, as more and more clever minds, you know, are, are devoted to this. Yeah. And as the regulations continue to increase. Yeah. Uh, you know, it's always interesting to, to wonder where does a declining empire go? And if you look at history, especially the Romans, um, as empires decline, they become more and more tyrannical because they're, they feel like they're losing control. Right. Yeah. So we got to control control. And so, uh, so my sense is that as our empire declines, and I believe it is, um, that there will be the last gasps of control come out and it'll probably, it'll probably get worse before it gets better. Yeah. So one more on the tail of that, because you, initially you mentioned PMA, I've heard a little bit about them. I don't know a ton about them. Do you have any good resources or what's your experience with the PMA process? Is it pretty straightforward or? Well, it, it, it, it, it depends. I mean, you can, there, there are now people. Yeah. You can, you can Google it up and you'll find the two denominations. Sure. There are now people that you can, you know, you can pay, I don't know, a few thousand dollars. It's not a lot. Right. Who will give you the paperwork? Okay. You know, I mean, an attorney, you know, there, there's a couple of attorneys in the groups that will, that will for, you know, whatever, $5,000. Here's your paperwork. Boom. You're, you're up and running. Yeah. Okay. And, um, and that's, uh, so, so that has matured to that point. But this, but this volume, the scale thing is a real problem. Here's the, here's the thing, just because you say it's a private membership association doesn't mean it is. Right. It only is if a judge says it is. Right. And the thing about PMAs is they are so early. They're so early in the, in this, in this space. I mean, they've been used for golf courses for a long time. Yeah. Right. Okay. They were originally started to, to escape, um, integration. Okay. Down south, down south. Okay. Okay. That's how they were started. Okay. Okay. Um, so, you know, for civil, to escape civil rights requirements. Yeah. Um, that right there is an interesting, you know, from, from a, a political marketing standpoint, Yeah. To use, to, to use a template created for segregation is a little bit. Yeah. Okay. But, but I, I totally get. Yeah. All right. So these elitists. Yeah. Carved out a place. It's kind of like in Virginia, in Virginia, several years ago, the wineries. Yeah. Went to the legislature and carved out. They were being harassed by the localities for doing weddings and events on their wineries. Yes. Okay. All right. And, um, and, and, and so the wineries went down. Of course, you know, they're, they're well connected. They're pretty. Yeah. Sure. Yeah. They went out and got and it was carved out from a, from the legislature actually, by right, a right to have an event. Yeah. For wineries. Yeah. Okay. So that, so that a, a city, a county couldn't, couldn't make them get a license. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So that's a, well, then the rest of us, we're saying, well, what if I don't want a winery? What if I want to grow chickens and I still want to have an event? So we actually started pushing and got a study committee together and got a hearing together and spent a couple of years actually, and finally got it across the board that any farm can have an event by right without a license in Virginia. Okay. So there's an example of a kind of a, of a kind of a hoity toity, you know, carve out. Right. That then we glummed onto, you know, to do this. Because it's already gone through and it opens up. Because it's already, yeah. Yeah. Kind of like for us in Illinois, we can point to you guys and say, hey, look what they passed in Virginia. Right. We can use this for us. Right. Like we're all doing like the main sovereignty, you know, those kinds of things. When those things happen, then you get precedent, you get, you get precedent and precedent is, as you know, legal is everything. Yeah. So the, the, the, the, I was all gung ho on it a couple of years. Right. And I've now cooled off because now I'm understanding that if you really do a PMA, you've just painted a big target on your back, come and get me because it hasn't, it hasn't been tested through the courts for food yet for farming. Right. Right. And so, you know what, if I can figure out any other way to not be a red flag to attack me for my scheme. Yeah. Yeah. Scheme, and I'm saying scheme in a good word. Scheme. Yeah. Yeah. Um, then I'm going to figure, I'm going to try to figure out a different way. Awesome. Okay. Yeah. Okay. And I love the instructional video thing. Yeah. That's why I was climbing onto that. That now has real legs, I think, because you could have, you know, you could have 300 people. Yeah. And they're all participating. Absolutely. Sign up, sign up for the video thing and we give you a free box. I mean, I just think that's, that's, that's using, you know, we all complain about the internet and the, and the, and all the, you know, the digitization of everything. Yeah. This is where you, this is where you take their, you take their game and you use it to create more freedom instead of more centralization. And that's really cool. We were just talking about this because we have, well, you know, but we've got the six kids that we homeschool. And so we have other homeschoolers that we have a network of and, and I would like to, I would actually like to host some actual educational classes. And then that's a way to open up that door then to tie that into anyone who wants that at the end that they, they get this process of education. And then they happen to have this in, in an add on value type of thing, you know, exactly. So it's a matter of how you structure it. So love the conversation. Thank you. I appreciate it. The only one that I didn't, that I didn't mention, uh, is where you, you buy something and you get something else for free. Right. Like for example, for example, we could sell, we could sell, um, um, polyface coasters. Yeah. For example. Yeah. And you buy that for, you know, $50 and we throw in meat for free. Okay. That's what Ann was talking about as well, I think. But, but I, I find that really difficult to defend when a judge is bearing down on you, so is this real or is this really just a charade? Right. It's hard to not say that. So here's the thing. You can, you can press the envelope as hard and as hard as you want to, but at the end of the day, you have to live with yourself. Yeah. And someone's going to have to be the tip of the spear. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And you're doing these things and you're trying to figure out how to walk that line of, of maintaining real life too, you know, like and taking care of your family and not pushing it so far, but also having a business. So it's tricky. Yeah. Yeah. It is. It is tricky.