"I Won't Run Any Of My Cultivators Without The Torsion Weeder"
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w4j6K9v4T3g
Education
 I'm Fred and I work for Chaffin Farms. We're located in Ithaca, Michigan. We are an organic operation that does about 1,600 acres of organic and we do about 16,000 of conventional. I am what they call the organic manager. I'm in charge of several guys that help keep the fields as clean as we can keep them with you know the weed pressure stuff like that and deciding on where crops will go the following year where they will fit the best for our operation. Right now we run the international cultivators. We built all the cultivators ourselves. It works out really good because we're on 20 inch rows and I have four of them and all four of them are identical. Now on all four of my cultivators that I got we purchased some what we call weeders from Tillmore. They're called torsion weeders and at this point right now I won't run any of my cultivators without the torsion weeder. I feel the torsion weeder gives us that extra little flow of dirt that we need to come in underneath the plant and also if there is an existing weed close to the plant that torsion weeder being just underneath that ground will suck that weed right underneath the dirt and it disappears. So I've been really happy with them. Now on our particular cultivators we will run spikes on the front the first couple times through and we will go to fours one time through the crop to get the bigger weeds that escaped from us but on the 20 inch rows we're getting by really well with the two spikes and a nine inch tooth. Then the torsion weeder if you notice the torsion weeder is out here further than what the nine inch tooth is. These are little weeds right here and I've got a handful of them here that the torsion weeder actually pulls up against that plant that you can't see. Remember I said you could see some of the weeds disappearing? Not all of them are disappearing. We're actually that torsion weeder is running at a nice depth where it's pulling them weeds plus covering them weeds. Like on these torsions them torsion weeders are running along the edge of that plant and it's pulling them little weeds right out of the ground. Here's an example of what I was talking about with the torsion weeder it's helping throw the dirt up here underneath this plant. This row has been cultivated this row has not been cultivated so if you look at the weed pressure here compared to the two rows here I know you would take these two rows over this row any day of the week.