15 BEST NATURAL FERTILIZERS | CHOOSING ORGANIC FERTILIZER IN GARDENING
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W5IqdqbHL08
Education
 If your plants are failing to thrive, dropping leaves, turning yellow or diseased, it could be an imbalance in your soil nutrients that's killing your plants. In today's episode, let's look into a list of 15 most useful and powerful organic or natural fertilizers that can bring a revolution in organic gardening if used properly. We'll also learn how to use these and also show you some organic fertilizers you have never heard of before. And finally, we'll show you how to make a cocktail mixture out of this for ease of application and calculate the final NPK value of this powder. All that's coming up! Let's start with a brief introduction and basic concepts before we list out the fertilizers. Please do not skip this information. Well, we all know that the major nutrients or macronutrients found in fertilizers are Nitrogen, Phosphorus and Potassium and each fertilizer has a ratio of these nutrients mentioned on the labels. This NPK ratio is very important to decide what you want to achieve from your plants. Nitrogen is required for growth of foliage i.e. leaves of the plant. Phosphorus is required for strong root growth and flowering and fruiting. Potassium helps regulate important functional processes in a plant and makes the plant healthy. The minor trace elements or micronutrients were also important and include Iron, Boron, Chlorine, Magne, Zinc, Copper, Sulphur and many more. We also note that the use of chemical or synthetic fertilizers is harmful and hazardous to all living organisms on earth. On the other hand, we also know the benefits of using organic fertilizers. Having said that, now let's list them one by one with few important points on each of them and how to use them. Please watch it till the end and by the end of the episode, I bet you will be really amazed to know so many organic options for fertilizers and many non-animal substitutes for vegan gardeners. 1. Cow Dung Manure This has been the universal fertilizer since ages. Not only cow dung, you can also use horse dung, goat dung and so on. But remember, it has to be fully decomposed to be used as a fertilizer. Generally it has a NPK ratio of 2, 1 and 1 ± 0.5 and this has a decent amount of all three major nutrients. Apart from mixing it in your potting soil in about 30% proportion, generally a handful of cow dung once every month or twice a month is good enough for most flowering and fruiting plants. You can find a detailed video on cow dung tips and tricks from a link in the description below. 2. Wermicompost This is nothing but earthworm poop or earthworm castings. Generally, it has a NPK ratio of 2, 1 and 1 ± 0.5 and can be used as a substitute for cow dung manure or a mixture of both. Apart from mixing it in your potting mix in about 30% proportion, generally a handful of vermicompost once in a month or even twice in a month is good enough for most flowering and fruiting plants. 3. Blood Meal This fertilizer is created using powdered animal blood. Generally, this has a NPK ratio of 12, 1.5 and 0.5. This means it's high in Nitrogen and low in other elements. One more important point to remember while using blood meal is, it's highly acidic and overdose can cause fertilizer burn which usually happens with chemical fertilizers. But the advantage of using blood meal is, it's highly fast acting like chemical fertilizers and can be used to quickly heal ailing plants with Nitrogen deficiency. Add half to one teaspoon near the roots of the plant and water the plant and you should see the results within two weeks. 4. Fish Meal As the name suggests, it's made from fish and fish bones. Generally, it has NPK ratio of 5, 2 and 2 or may be different depending on the company label. This too is fairly fast acting fertilizer similar to blood meal. And apart from Nitrogen, it has decent amounts of Phosphorus and Calcium as well. 5. Chicken or Poultry Manure This generally has NPK of 4, 3 and 3 ±1 and has more Nitrogen content than Cow Dung. This is also fast acting and hence, overdose can burn your plants. Use very little dosage similar to blood meal and fish meal. The best way to use these three fertilizers that's blood meal, fish meal and chicken manure is to add a small amount to the soil before planting or to quickly heal a plant with nutrient deficiencies. 6. Bone Meal This needs no introduction. This is made from powdered animal bones which is available either as a fine steamed bone meal powder or coarse powder for slower release i.e. for the entire growth cycle of a plant. This generally has NPK of 4, 20 and 0. This is high in phosphorus content and very important for strong roots and healthy flowering and fruiting of your plant. Adding 1 tablespoon per medium sized container mixed into the potting soil is sufficient for the entire growth cycle. 7. Rock Phosphate This is a vegan alternative to bone meal with high phosphorus content with NPK of about 0, 20 and 0. You can either add this while you are making your potting mix. 1 tablespoon mixed with a potting mix volume of a 12 to 15 inch container. Or use 1 to 2 teaspoons once in about 3 months per plant if the plant is already in the soil or potted. 8. Seaweed This fast acting fertilizer is available for free along most coastlines. Its NPK is about 2, 1 and 4. It's high in potassium. It also has plenty of micronutrients like zinc and iron. Seaweed is considered highly beneficial to the plants that need high levels of potassium. Commercially, it's available as either Zyme granules or Seaweed liquid extract which also contains Humic acids, Follic acids and other essential amino acids. You can add half to 1 teaspoon per plant once in a month to nourish them with the seaweed nutrients. Liquid seaweed extract can be used to quickly revive an ailing plant of nutrient deficiencies by spraying it on the leaves that is called foliar feeding and also by watering the plant. The dosage is 10 ml per litre of water. Make sure you spray more on the underside of the leaves because the stomata or the openings are more in number on the underside. On number 9. Humic Acid and Fulvic Acid These are rather growth enhancers and the final breakdown constituents of natural decay of plant and animal materials. Humic acids are an excellent natural and organic way to provide plants and soil with a highly concentrated dose of essential nutrients, vitamins and trace elements. Mix acids chelate complex compounds into simple molecules so that they are suitable for plant absorption. This reduces the fertilizer usage by about 30% and increases flowering fruiting by more than 70%. So how to use this? The dosage is 1 teaspoon per litre of water. Mix it well and water 1 cup that's about 250 ml of it per plant. If you are using liquid, then add 3 ml of it per litre of water and then water your plants. You should see the results within 2 weeks. On number 10. Organic Micronutrient Granules This type of fertilizers contain both major NPK nutrients and micronutrients like calcium, sulphur, zinc, copper, iron, boron, molybdenum, manganese, chlorine and so on. You can add about 1 teaspoon of it per plant once in a month. You can watch a detailed video on various micronutrient deficiency patterns from a link in the description below. On number 11. Neem Cake and Neem Cake Powder This is both a good organic fertilizer as well as a good soil pesticide. It's actually the leftover product after neem oil extraction. Any cake for that matter is a leftover product. You can mix about 10% of it while preparing your potting mix to avoid soil pests. You can also sprinkle it around your existing plants to get rid of soil pests. You can also make a liquid fertilizer or neem cake tea by adding one handful per litre of water and allowing it to brew for at least 24 hours and then water your plants directly or by further diluting this water. On number 12. Mustard Cake and Powder This is another natural source of NPK and increases flowering in plants. The use is similar to how we discussed for Neem Cake Powder. On number 13. Epsom Salt This is the best source of magnesium for plants. It's chemically magnesium sulphate. Magnesium is the central most atom of the chlorophyll molecule. You all know chlorophyll is very essential for photosynthesis i.e plant food production. You can watch a detailed video on the uses of Epsom salt and how to use it from a link in the description below. On number 14. Soybean meal This also needs a special mention specially for vegans who can use this as a substitute for bone meal for phosphorus supply. On number 15. Other organic fertilizers that need a mention like Alpha Alpha meal, Azomite, Cotton Seed meal, Feather meal, Green Sand and so on. Well, now let's see how to prepare the Cocktail fertilizer mix. With so many organic fertilizers in hand, using them all one by one is a tough task. So what I always do is mix them all and total the NPK value approximately and use them with a certain dosage per plant. This time I decided to mix only the dry stuff excluding vermicompost and cow dung manure. Let's mix all the other ingredients and make a cocktail mix and total the NPK value and use it accordingly. Do not worry too much about over dosage because most are organic fertilizers and will not harm your plants. To get a better idea on totaling the NPK and making this cocktail universal fertilizer, you will watch a detailed episode on this topic from this end screen link circled right here. Please like, share and comment below with your queries and feedback. Happy Gardening!