How To Grow Cucumber Vertically - Save Space & Increase Yields in 3 Simple Steps Growing Vertically
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WCxauwtP1dw
Howto & Style
 Hi everyone, in this little video you're going to learn how to grow cucumbers vertically. So cucumbers are vine plants. They have tendrils. Now if you look over here, this is a tendril. This plant likes to climb. Many people grow cucumbers on the ground. However, they take up a ton of space. They don't grow uniform. Their bottoms become flat. And they typically get dirty. They're hard to find. When you grow them vertically, they're easy to find and you can grow much more in a square foot span. This is probably a third of the bed, maybe 12, 14 square feet and I have about 12 to 14 cucumber plants. The reason I can grow so much in a small amount of space is because I'm going to be growing them all vertically. So there's really three key steps to grow cucumbers vertically. So the first step is building a structure. Now you don't need anything fancy. When I first started growing cucumbers vertically, I had a very simple trellis. Now the past few years I built a conduit frame on this bed. And this conduit frame is easy to take down in the fall and put back up in the spring. And it's really nice because I can put all kinds of strings from the frame, as many strings as I want. So what I do is I tie the strings up at the top. I bring them down. I have some fastened with screws into the bed and I have some strings that are just coming down right onto the plant. So the first step is to get a structure. You don't need anything fancy. You can just use sticks and make an A-frame. And if you want to build the structure, you can check out the video down below in the description. The second step is to start to train the cucumber up the string. So in this case, I just tied it really loosely to the bottom of the plant. And then I started to train it up. All you have to do is just put it around like that. And then it'll start to grow on its own once the tendrils come out. Now you can see this one over here, I didn't even do anything. I started growing this plant about a foot away from the string. And it's already started to come over here and it's started to capture the string right here. And here's another tendril. So once it gets a little closer, I'll start to train it up here and I'll start to grow up this string. Now you can grow probably 60 to 80 cucumbers per plant if you have enough space, enough vertical space. Now what I'm going to do is once this climbs to the top, I'll start sending them down, down the edge. I'll put more springs. I'm going to trellis them all over here and there's going to be cucumbers just hanging down off of the structure. I also have tomatoes and I'm going to use this trellis to, I've got some caged and I'm also going to start to support some with strings, some of the tomatoes. First step, get your structure. Second step, train them up the structure, up the string. Now the third step is really let them grow and you can start to prune the lower leaves. I like to prune the lower leaves because it allows more airflow through this bed. So since I'm growing very tightly here, I want to keep a lot of airflow. If you don't have a lot of airflow and you have a lot of humid days, that can actually promote disease if the leaves are always wet and they don't have a lot of airflow. So I'll cut the lower leaves. I don't want really any leaves touching the ground and then these will start to go vertically. That's really it. That's really the key three steps. So if you have any questions, I'll be happy to answer.