Sustainable Dairy Practices
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wDEt0khLs88
People & Blogs
 I am amazed at all the ways dairy farmers take care of their cows. But how are they making sure to take care of the community and the land around them by using sustainable practices? We'll head over to Nora to find out. I'm Nora Felthasch and there are a number of things that we do to keep our dairy sustainable. One of them is recycling of water, especially here in the West. Water is a really scarce resource, so it's important to us that we reuse it and that we save it. It starts out by the water that comes out of the ground is used to cool our milk, and then that water is given to the cows to drink. After they drink the water, we collect all the liquid waste, manure, and that gravity flows to a holding pit, which then we can use to pump back out onto the fields to fertilize. And then the cows in turn will eat the crops that we're growing on the fields. So there's a number of ways that we limit water use on our farm. The first thing that we do is we carefully collect any water that we have rather than letting it run off. Secondly, the crops that we plant are drought resistant, crops that we can grow here without having to truck in a lot of water or pump up a lot of water to use. And then the irrigation itself can be set. So we actually can set that from our computer so we don't have to be out in the field necessarily to do that. We can watch and see what's going on with rainfall, what's going on with the crops, where they need water, and we can set that very carefully so that we limit the amount of water that we're using. Other things that we do include reusing byproducts from other things that might get thrown away otherwise, like corn gluten. So these are things that might otherwise go into a landfill, but instead we're able to feed them to cows and make milk. Our farm is part of a co-op. A co-op is when a group of farmers pool their milk together. They organize the shipping of the milk. They also make sure that all the milk that is going into the products that are going out onto the market have the same standard and the same level of quality. Doing what's right for the community is a huge priority for us. We live in this community. Our kids go to school in this community and that's really important to us. We have a relationship to sustain with the community hopefully for a really long time. We work with a number of local businesses. The hardware store is the most basic. They carry a lot of the things that we use day to day on the farm. We get our gas locally and fuels delivered here locally as well. We have seed salesmen and seed companies that we work with that have local representatives that we work with really regularly. Our employees live in this community and we live in this community. So we use the grocery store here. So we're very enmeshed with the local community and that's really important to us. Having a sustainable farm is important to me and to my family because like many dairy farms we are third generation dairy. We hope to pass this dairy on to future generations. And so taking care of the land and taking care of the animals is incredibly important to us because it's part of our legacy.