So You Want To Start A Homestead? (Beginner Tips From A Beginner)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WEeICYjlfUQ
People & Blogs
 Franklin, I love you buddy. I need you to move. Alright, thank you. We've been homesteading for a little over a year now and a lot of people ask like, hey, if you had to start over, what would you do differently? Would you change a lot of your processes? Would you do things in a different order? And you know, while there might be some small details that we would change or make a little bit different, I really don't feel like I would change a whole lot about the processes and sort of the route we took when it comes to homesteading. You know, and so today what I'd like to do is kind of talk through if you want to start a homestead. If you've got a piece of property and you thought I want to take baby steps toward self-sufficiency, I want to take baby steps toward this idea of homesteading, maybe this is how you could start. So for me, when I was considering a backyard homestead to take baby steps toward self-sufficiency, I was considering a couple of different things. I was considering what protein sources am I going to have? How am I going to get my vegetables? How am I going to get my carbohydrates? And then last on my list was dairy options. You're not allowed to judge the door. It came off the hinges and that's going to be next week's problem, like most things. But the first thing that I would do if I were going to consider homesteading would be this, would be chickens. I would look at your county code, I would look at your city code, I would look at all the regulations in your area to see if chicken ownership for one is even possible, and two, how many? Three, what kind of structures do you need? How far does it need to be spaced from your property lines? There's a lot of things that are involved with that. So do your research in your area, whether that be in your county or your city, whatever it might be. Because chickens, I feel like, you know, as we always say, it's the gateway to conspiracies, but it's also the gateway to homesteading because it's going to be your easiest introduction into owning animals that provide food for you without a massive cost and a massive amount of time. Now the beauty of chickens, honestly, is twofold. Number one, they provide eggs. Well, this is a duck egg. They provide eggs. And two, they also provide you meat. So you get a protein source from chickens in two different ways. And that's a phenomenal introduction into providing food for your own home because you can have eggs on a consistent basis. And then at least for us, as our chickens start cycling out of their prime egg laying years, we are going to then put them in a crock pot for meat. And so at least for us, that's kind of the process we plan on taking with our chickens. And I think that this is a great introduction because you can have a flock of four chickens or six chickens. You don't have to have 37 like we do. And you also don't need a ridiculous amount of space in order to house your chickens. So our chickens here are free range chickens. They come out of the coop behind me. Every morning, we have an automatic coop door based on the lumens outside. We'll open. It'll trigger it to open based on the sunlight. And it will also trigger it to close based on the sunlight in the evening when dusk hits. But we have free range chickens. So we have a pretty large area out here where they roam all day long, but you don't have to raise chickens the same way I do. You can raise them in your coop with a run attached to it. And they only need about four square feet per chicken to comfortably house them in a coop. Now, I would always suggest you have a little bit more than that just for the comfort and happiness of your animal because the healthier, happier chicken you have, the better eggs you get. But the thing is, is you don't need a ridiculous amount of space in order to house your chickens and own backyard chickens. It's pretty accessible as far as it goes with space. A lot of people wonder what purpose or function does a goat serve on the homestead. For us, we're going to use our goats for breeding and milking purposes. We've got our three does that we have right here. We've got bluebell, moon pie, and clover. And our goal is ultimately to breed them and kid them out and then sell off their kids or maybe keep a couple here and there and then use them for milking purposes. Clover, get out of the frame. For us, we wanted to be able to have a sustainable source of milk. And we also wanted to use milk in some of the things that we make like soaps and lotions and things of that nature. And this is one of the best ways to do that without having to commit to a large animal like a cow. We actually have some Nigerian dwarves here and they are a great source of milk without having a massively sized animal that requires a ridiculous amount of space and food. These goats don't need that much space, yet they still provide that type of thing that we want, which is going to be a sustainable, reliable source of milk. And right now we're hanging out in my favorite part of the homestead, which is our fruit tree orchard. We've got 12 fruit trees. We've got six apple trees, two pear trees, and four peach trees. And we have them all in less than a thousand square feet of space. And now that doesn't sound like much space at all, but we're going to prune them to keep them short. I don't want them being any taller than eight or nine feet because by doing that, I'm able to have a lot more trees closer together. So we're going to keep them about eight to nine feet tall. So I only spaced them out eight to nine feet apart. That's the only spacing you need. As long as you keep them short, I wanted to have more variety rather than more of one fruit. And so we got a bunch of variety, but we're going to prune them to keep them small, kind of bush them out a little bit. That way we can have a large variety of fruit that feeds my family and that we can provide for our friends and family and our community as well. But this is another great thing to have. We've got blueberry bushes as well, but fruit is a massive thing. I've got a four-year-old, a two-year-old and a one-year-old. We go through so much fruit on a daily basis. It is sickening. And so I'm glad that we've got this. It's going to take about another year or so before we see anything from this. And right now it's the dead of winter, which is why you don't see leaves on anything. But we're really excited to have this. We're excited to see the fruits of our labor with this. And this is going to be a really good option for you. If you have some space that's got good lighting and you want some fruit, but you don't have space to separate them 20 to 30 feet, you can prune them to keep them small. And we're going to have more videos on that coming in the spring and summer. And right now I'm standing in the future home of the BNR Homestead garden that's coming this spring. And now, like I said, we've only been homesteading for a little over a year. We just moved on to this current property in May of last year. And so we haven't even started our garden yet. But like I said, one of the big pillars of homesteading that we're passionate about is growing your own vegetables. And so that's going to be coming soon. We're going to have a wide array of raised beds and trellis systems back here so that we can grow a bunch of vegetables. We're going to have a cut garden and a pollinator garden because we're planning on having bees one day too. And so this is going to be a huge part as well. But if you don't have a lot of space, that's the huge thing about this is you don't need an abundance of space in order to be able to garden at least something. We always say do what you can with what you've got. And so even if you just start with a couple of grow bags. In 2018, we lived in a rental in a downtown area and I had six grow bags growing jalapeno peppers. And that sort of started this love I have, or at least I want to have with gardening. And so you really don't need a ton of space. Even if you just have a little bit of a pot on a windowsill in your kitchen with some basil or lavender or whatever it might be, you just got to do what you can with what you got. And so just find out what space you have. Try to check the lighting in the area to see how much sun you get on a daily basis. Do your research and then start a garden. Hopefully in a couple of weeks when you come back and check out our videos, this will be a nice built out garden. We kind of want to do it big. It's been a couple of years and it's been a huge dream of ours. And so hopefully that'll be coming soon. But keep an eye on that. Make sure you're subscribing and liking the video too, because I want you guys to come back and see the garden that we're going to put out. It's going to be awesome. We're going to be working with some cool people and we're really excited about it. And last but not least, you know, we're going to talk carbohydrates. Now we're going to have potatoes and things like that in our garden. But a huge part of what we do here is we bake our own bread, whether that be yeast bread or sourdough. And the beauty of that is you really don't have to have any property at all to be able to do that. All you need is a kitchen. And so even if you're in a rental right now and you have no options to have animals or you don't have an option to have a big garden, you can start acting in a self-sufficient type of way with baking your own bread and just thinking about what's going into some of your food. Like we say, do what you can with what you got. If you only have a kitchen, start making those changes in the kitchen. That way, once you do get property, you don't have to start figuring out sourdough. Then you already have something in your tool belt that's helpful for you and a great utilization for homesteading. And that's really all I've got for you this week. The most important things I think you need to start with when it comes to homesteading is starting off with chickens because it provides protein in multiple different ways. And it does not take a ridiculous amount of space. I would start with a garden because you don't necessarily need to have a lot of space. You can garden in a lot of different ways. You can do vertical gardening to help utilize some more of your space and then bread of some sort, whether that be sourdough or yeast bread. I just think that those are fantastic ways to kind of get started in the space without being incredibly overwhelmed by all of the options that there are out there. And then eventually you can get down the rabbit trail of goats and pigs and all the things that we're doing. But you know, it's only been a year for us. We're still learning a ton. I haven't even built out my full scale garden yet, and I'm excited to do that and share that along with you guys. So make sure you're subscribing. Head to beinourhomestead.com to get all of your foil hat gang gear. Make sure you use code FOILHAT10 to get 10% off and make sure you're following us for more homesteading tips. And we'll see you next week.