Veterans Leading in Agriculture & Entrepreneurship [Sustainable Farming]
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wgWjA8Odswk
Nonprofits & Activism
 This is my farm. This is the chicken pen area. This is a lot. So it's feeding time. I gave them some vegetable scraps and some extra raw milk this morning. But this is my awesome cube. Everybody's so ready to get out. Oh, I love it. Okay. Oh my god, I can't wait to see this. We're about to have like four, three hundred chickens getting out in the morning. Yes. Oh my gosh. Look at that. They're like, be free. Little chickens. Oh my god. How do you get them all in there at night? I'll walk you in there. I'll give you a little tour. I love my life. Yeah. Yeah. This is so, this is like my dream. I want to farm so bad. This is so cool. We love to share it. This is like the best place in the world, I think. But yeah. I think so. It's a little rainy today. So it's not, you know, the clouds look kind of close big little circle up there. But yeah, this is the farm. This is my heaven on earth. It does. It does exist. It's beautiful. That was awesome. Yeah. This is like my favorite place. How do I change this around? This is so cool. This is like my favorite place. How do I change this around? This is confusing. Okay. So let me give you a little tour, you know. So the roosting bars. Yeah. This is their roosting bars is the floor. We give this a good pressure hose. Okay. Like every month or so. But yeah. Wow. So egg boxes. We're about to install two more today. These ones, oops, didn't come out. So this is where they lay their eggs in the morning. Anybody's going to come out? Let's go. Look, we already have one. Oh yeah. We're going to lay. Let's see if anybody's laid any eggs in here this morning. Yeah. Business as usual. Oh wow. So this egg box is amazing. Yep. Because this helps keep our eggs a lot cleaner. We still have our few, whereas some like this come out or dirty. We still get quite a few that are dirty, but these egg boxes are the best ever. And this is where about this, this has a capacity for 400 chickens. They all sleep to them. It's the roosting bars off the ground, but to us, it's like the ground in here. But my husband built this by hand all by himself. Wow. I'm proud of him for that. Wow. Here they go. Here they go. Yeah. It's incredible. And then they're all going to be like, it'll be like boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. Like all of them will be in there. You'll just hear her singing all day. There she goes. Oh my goodness. Oh, that is so cool. Yeah. I'm trying to figure out how to flip my screens. I don't know how it won't let me. Um, uh, oh, there might be a little flip button or something. Yeah. It's not. No, that's okay. I think when you started recording, it wouldn't let me flip it. I think we're stuck. Oh, well we can pause it. Yeah. I can stop and cool. So for everyone that's listening right now. I witnessed the most exciting morning experience with all of the chickens. And I'm like wondering how do you get them in at night? I'm thinking of like chasing them. No, they're going by themselves. We just want to welcome you. Yeah. Thank you. Yeah. That is awesome. Absolutely. So we just wanted to get exclusive insight into your life, your business and everything that you're passionate about. We got to connect in Iowa. I got to hear the pitch. It was absolutely incredible. You got an egg washer that is going to be coming at some point. It's going to change your life. So first before I just, I bet. So walk us through what inspired you to start this? The farm or just in general, like chickens or well. Anything. Yeah. I've always really had an affinity for animals. As a kid, I am, I've always brought home stray animals all the time. Animals are just a love I have. It was, it's a natural gift that I was, didn't realize until I was 36. And so I've been begging and begging for chickens for like pretty much our entire relationship, but military lives, we don't always have time or space or the housing or the neighborhood. And so finally 2020 hit. And you know, my husband had just gotten home from a deployment. Yeah. I edit. So you're good. I really wanted to show you the chicken part. So I wanted to be out in the field. I'm trying to get out of the field now. So you can have. Yeah. So it's like my favorite part of the morning. So 2020 hit and my husband just came home. And I was like, yes, now's my time for chickens. He has nowhere to go and we're stuck here. So I'm quite persistent with things I really love and that I really know I want. And so he was like, all right, let's get a few backyard chickens, but we have to do it right. So, you know, it was a neighborhood. It's not a forever home. I had to make a nicer coop, which was, you know, actually helped the resale value, which was great. But, um, but yeah, we got chickens. We got like six. Okay. I like chicken math is real. Y'all. We got 10. I was like, yeah, yeah, yeah. Go to the farm. Go get some chickens and you bring them home. I'm like, okay, cool. I'm only going to get six. It's all we need. And then you see them and they're there and you're like, I need more than six. So I can go to 10 and he was like, what are you doing? You said six. And I said, what? I, what if some die? You know, I heard that's a thing. And so, you know, 10 became eventually 20 and a little backyard where I'm only legally allowed to have six, but like, I kind of paid off my neighbors with eggs. So it worked out. It's fine. It was fine. And so absolutely. And it was great. I wanted chickens originally just for eggs. I had no clue the genuine effect it would have on my mental health. Um, and it funny thing is it all started with a funny little bird that my husband named murder face. And, um, she's the one who started it all for me. Uh, she laid me my first blue egg and she was the weirdest friend I ever had. And anytime I felt bad, you know, I'm a veteran. I've got issues like every other veteran. And, um, I would go out there just to be alone and just listen to my chickens. And it was one of the most therapeutic things for me. They weren't snuggly like a dog. They didn't want me to pet them all the time. They just want to be at my feet and peck at stuff and just be next to me. And I'm like, this is nice. So yeah, I fell in love hard, like real hard. And I kind of became a crazy chicken lady to where now I have this really kick ass farm. I just feel so blessed by it all the time. That's how we got here. We, my husband's about to retire and we're like, what do we do? And he wanted to go contracting. And I'm like, no, please don't do that. I don't think I can handle that anymore. So can you reconsider like, why don't we be farmers? And like his initial reaction, you know, it was like, what? That's too easy. No way. And then I'm like, well, just think about it. So I'm the next thing, you know, I hear him doing YouTube videos and he's like, yeah, let's do this. Like, all right, I'm in. I see where you're going. That makes total sense. He, he saw the magic on the YouTubes and he was like right on board. With me from the beginning. And it was just amazing. I took a shot in the dark with them. I thought he'd say no. And he surprised me so wonderfully in like the greatest way. And it's, I came here. I came here out to Pineland for him as a green beret. I didn't want him to retire and completely lose everything about himself because I made that mistake when I got out and I only did six years. I left everything that I knew behind and everyone. And it was not a good thing. Not at all a good thing. And so I had to figure out what I had to do the hard way. And it was not kind. And after 20 years, I couldn't imagine what that would be like for my husband. And I chose this area for him mainly because as a green beret, you know, you need your identity still. You can't just take that away. And that's so ingrained. And I felt like you need to be near your people. They're my people too now. So let's go. This is a great place. I've already worked out here as a, as a G fighter in Pineland. Um, uh, that's a gorilla fighter. Um, Pineland is a fictitious country that closely resembles North Carolina and it practice, uh, they teach soldiers unconventional warfare in the special forces world. And it's really valuable. And I get to work side by side with some of America's future finest. Like we know one, uh, Benjamin Bunn, you know, he was a former special forces man and now, and that's, that's such an honorable job. And, uh, Oh, check this out. This is my beautiful diamond. Can you see it? Oh my gosh. I've seen the videos. Yes. I can see her. That's pretty girl. Yeah. So the farm's always on. There's never stopping on the farm. So a lot of people, um, or like, they don't know about farm life. They're just like, Oh, well don't you have like a few minutes? And I'm like, yeah, I got like five. And then in those five minutes, something's trying to kill, kill something else or the, like, it's really awesome. When, before I came to the farm, I actually had like a really hard time with life. Before I came here, I suffer from like really bad PTSD. And my fight or flight is always engaged. It's all the time. When you live in a city, it's not the best place for someone like me. No, I'm always on guard. I'm always wondering what's that? What's this? It's like, it's quite, I can't fix it. There's nothing I can do. Um, but being here on the farm, like I fit here. Like I found a place where I belong because my on it's appropriate here. And I feel so calm knowing that this is a place where that's okay. This is a place where I can let that be free because something's always trying to get killed here. And something's always needing some kind of defending from something else. And if it's something I can't turn off, well then let me use it in a good way in some way. And so it's been really helpful. Mostly like all, like it's always been super helpful. Most of the time, there are times where it gets a little out of hand because it's a real situation. And I'm like, Oh my God, why this is all this plot. I wasn't prepared for this. What? Like my first time coming across something. You're okay. Yes. Hi. Here's Teddy. Yeah. So it's really nice to find a place that I feel like my brokenness isn't broken. It's been really beneficial to a lot of my healing and a lot of things that I didn't know existed until I got here. And I left the city and I saw the difference and how much release of tension because I was able to actually do what I've been taught to do, but wasn't untrained how not to do anymore. So, yeah, I, I, this is my heaven on earth. I do feel like those places can exist for people. You just have to find yours. Yeah. I love that message that you're sending. Yeah. Great message for everyone. And I know that you're always trying to spread knowledge to an education on, you know, like I had the privilege of actually hearing the pitch and not everyone who went to the shower gets to hear these. So, I mean, like about milk, about the eggs in general, like what sets your eggs apart? Like what talk, talk us through that piece. Cause it's very interesting. Well, I think a lot of people can do what I do. I don't feel like I'm special. I will say that. I think what's the most important that I don't feel like I truly got to, because I I've never done a pitch. I was so nervous. I didn't know. I was so, you know, it's my first time. Yeah. The message that like, I really wanted to bring out was that our food issues in America are very real and they're very scary. 2020 woke me up to that very much. Yeah. And it's just, it's a trend that's happening and it's happening more frequently. Bird flu, avian flu. Oh, now the dairy cows have problems. Oh, the meat. There's something wrong with meat. There's a valid argument to the people who don't want to eat meat because they think it's bad for you. Well, yeah, the stuff at the grocery store is bad for you. Don't eat it. You are what you eat. If what you're eating is eating garbage and lab made stuff, then of course it's going to cause you problems. They have a valid argument. Yeah. But the farmers, you know, when you're a big business, there's only so many farmers that own and run everything. My eggs are regenerative raised. They're pasture raised. They're on grass. I mean, they have that huge giant field. It's actually double the size. It should be by standard. And I feel like it should be bigger, but, you know, but anybody can do what I do. Lots of people all over America are doing already. But the only difference that I'm trying to bring with my eggs is that I want to deliver them myself directly to the consumer, like to the grocery store and say, OK, here's your eggs. These are fresh. These are the freshest that they can get. We will come and deliver biweekly because I want to make sure my customers have fresh. Fresh is always better. Nutrient count is nutrients is important for your health. And the longer an egg sits, the less nutrients dense they are, which means the less benefits that you get in your body running like every farmer should be a soil farmer. For instance, white oak pastures, you can look them up online. They're really amazing. They are super big into this and they're trying to change the beef industry as well. And they're trying to change the way things are done. Everything's monoculture. Everything is just one, one, one. But that's not Mother Nature. That's not the what God intended. Everything's supposed to go together in harmony, like live together. Yeah. So we can mimic that with with grazing, with appropriate grazing. I'm not thinking of the right word here. Rotational grazing. Yeah. And it's easily you can very easily mimic it. You can't do it with machines. You know, farmers can never be replaced with machines. We are one of the most valuable assets in this country. Whoever controls the food controls the people. And I'm not OK with that. Yeah. I want I don't I believe there's another there's so in the industry of eggs, eggs sit. And by the time you get your eggs from the grocery store, they're like almost two months old. That's old. In my book, I wouldn't eat two months old eggs. I mean, I do at the grocery store, but I didn't know any better. Now, no, I wouldn't. That one bit I'd feed it to my animals. I'd feed it back to them to regenerate, give them back, you know, what protein was left. But I like nothing goes to waste here, you know. And so I want to model something different. I think we can do better. I know we can do better. There's farmers all over America who can do exactly what we do and regenerate the world. So people are talking about pollution and all this crap and they're blaming it on cow farts. Well, you know, why don't you change the soil? Because everything when it rains, all that water evaporates. A lot of it evaporates in that monoculture situation. I'm like, how do you think that's handling in our environment? Well, helping a lot. Yeah. If we change the way we're farming, we could change a lot of things. And it's just not natural what we're doing. It's not healthy either. Avian flu happens because of dirty conditions. And then it spreads very quickly because it's contagious. So avoid the dirty. We haven't had one issue with our birds. Not one. Not one health issue. None of them are vaccinated. None of them. All of them are all natural. Just chicks. Here you go. Bye bye. Call me some eggs. We supplement every once in a while with a little feed, but we try to supplement with more raw milk than anything. But that's only like wintertime. Summertime there, you know, they get raw milk. They might get extra eggs that we didn't sell if there are any leftover. And what we want to do is we want to do a model similar to a lot of other farmers that are doing it. We want to like empower them. A lot of small farmers don't have a way to get their name out there. Yeah. They don't like, for instance, Vital Farms. Vital Farms is a really good idea. They are a wonderful practice. However, they have now are gone big in corporate. And so many people don't want corporate anymore. So many people want their neighbors. But their neighbors an hour away and they can't always drive there. But we can. We can deliver. And we want to bring other farmers to join us. But we don't want to take away your name. We don't want to take away your identity. Like Vital Farms, I think what they do is great, but they slap their name on someone else's hard work. Yeah. Yeah. And then they take a percentage. It's like an affiliate program. They take a percentage from them. So the more money they make, the more money they make. Cool story. Yeah. But why not just let that family have it and do it different? Let them pay the fees or whatever that needs to be done to fall under you and under your guidelines and such. But that's their label at the grocery store that they can be proud of. That's their family name out there now in the world. And after a certain amount of time, you know, and they learn what we do, we want to teach them. We want to empower them. We want to, we want to bring them out to the world. Like we want to try that. We're trying to bring ourselves out there, but we feel like if we have more, we have like an egg army of small farmers just like me who want to put their name out there. Let's do this and let's do it together. Let's put your name on the front of that box and mine on the side on a little code. Let's do it backwards, like complete opposite from vital farms, like flip it around one. If it's their name and their, ours is on that tiny little code on the back. You want to know more about time and magic, blah, blah, blah, blah, visit this website, you know, but that's that family. That's their honor. That's their pride. That's their hard work. And they deserve to show it to whoever they want to show it to. You know, they're within the guidelines and the standards and they pass the inspections and they do these things. Why not give America back the power? Take it back. If we're going to fight back, if people really want to fight our government back, you don't do it with guns anymore. You got to be smarter than that. You got to play their game. How do you control the people? You control the food. Yep. And I keep hearing that, you know, farmers, like they're, I guess, you know, they're, I mean, it's good to hear that they still exist, but it sounds like it's getting to be a smaller and smaller number of people doing it. And of course, like you said, corporation, everything comes down to money, power, control. Just like, yeah. So it's a very scary thing. And I mean, food is everything. Food is food is medicine. Yep. So it's incredibly important. I think this message is very important as well. So I kind of want with Warrior Rising, like we talked about a little bit about your background and the farm itself. So how did Warrior Rising or was it the academy, was it the community experience? What value did you get from being a part of Warrior Rising to help your farm? There's a few things I got from that, from that whole experience. All of it good. I'll say that first. All of it great. Having that automatic feeling of like, hey, welcome. We got you. Come on. And I never met any of those people. And every single one of them was so supportive. Every single veteran. Like, we're all in competition together. But then I was like, wait, what? This isn't. Oh, this is. Oh, I like this one. This is a good one. Yeah. I love working together, even though like at the end, it's still a competition. You know, that's my style all day. You know, it's all great. Everyone's there. Everyone's still a winner. Everyone, you know, you go home with relationships. You go home with knowledge. Having my brain stretched in this way has just been revitalizing. I was able to open a door in my mind into a passion. Like, this has been my passion for a while. But the way that this expanded my mind was not what I expected. It was. I purposely came with no expectations because I didn't. I didn't. I didn't want to have any and be let down because that's what happens to sometimes with people. And I chose to like kind of hide myself from a lot of it just because I wanted to just I wanted to be wowed. And I was I was floored. I was floored. Yeah. So touching for me having overwhelming kindness and love just thrown at me was just wow. It floored me. I went there for eggs and I came home with just the money. Yeah, the money's great. I am not. That's amazing. But like if I had to do it all over again and I didn't get any money, I would feel exactly the same. The people I met, the things I learned. Oh, wow. The things I learned. Wow. Yeah, it was just I'm floored. I highly. Yeah, it was a very unique group. Yeah, that that group was so collaborative. So and that was my first business shower as a part of the Warrior Rising team. And I was absolutely just overwhelmed in a good way with how kind everyone was to each other and how the competition was more supportive. I mean, everyone wanted to see the other person win and wanted to know more about the industries are so diverse, too. You didn't see two of the same things there. So it was really incredible. So I know you got to get back to your farm. But if there is a small farmer out there listening right now or someone who's into agriculture, what would your advice be for them to start or to to stay the course when things get hard? Well, for one, to get started, research. Do all the research you can before you jump in. Have an idea of at least one thing. I will say when you get on a farm and you're like, yeah, you want to do all the things. I'm gonna tell you, don't do it. Lump your brakes. Lump your brakes, my friend. Don't do it. Start with one. Get real good at that one before you move to the next one, because it will very quickly overwhelm you. It will it will catch up with you real quick. We towed that line when we first got here, but that was because we didn't, you know, when you get livestock like goats, you have to have more than one. And so they're quite chaotic little troublemakers. So we came here with a plan. We knew we wanted to come for a business. We knew also knew we wanted to come for like our forever home. And so we were very strategic. Our forever had to have job opportunities just in case our five year plan didn't work. Because in any true business, you have to have a five year plan. If by year five, if you're not successful, you should probably throw in the towel, you know, and choose something else because you're just going to be throwing money into a bucket that has a hole. And so with the help of Warrior Rising, like we are. Oh, wow. We're really getting that, that like we were on our way, but it's. It's, it's going to move a little bit faster now. And our dream is going to come a little faster now. And when you choose your land, choose wisely. Don't choose cheaply. Wise is always better. Know your area. Know flood zones. Planning is super important before you jump in. Yeah. That's my biggest key advice. If you're married and you're going to do a business together, you know, you should, you should get a little counseling before you do that, depending on your relationship, because it'll test you. It's basically like having a baby. Only like magnified times 12. Cause it's extra work. Yeah. You have to rely on each other. It will either make you or break you. And I feel like it's making us, which is really awesome. Yeah. Cause SF life was hard and it was breaking us. Mm-hmm . But the farm is remaking us and it is probably one of the most beautiful gardens I've ever witnessed to start growing in my life after the army. Every single one of the people in my family has found some kind of freedom here and some kind of peace. And it's really kick ass. That's incredible. I love hearing that for you and your, and your husband. So last piece of advice now, veterans trying to start their own business, veterans wanting to be entrepreneurs. What is your piece of advice to them? This is not my quote. This actually comes from another farmer called the shepherdess. She's down in Texas. She does sheep, but I will, I will quote her. Think big, dream big. Let me say that again. Dream big, start small and never quit. I have been telling people around here. Hey man, one of these days, you know, we're going to get somewhere. Wait, this is my dream. This is what I'm going to do. I promise is what I'm going to do. And I can't tell you how many people have been laughing at me, but I can't tell you how many, I can tell you how many people have stopped laughing at this point. And it's sort of been like, Oh, she might mean it. So she's serious. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Our farm hand, um, he comes and he wants to help us out with a lot of like, like digging and stuff. And he, he, I told him my dream. I was like, Bryson, you stay here with us. You stay with us. You stick with it. This might just be a real job for you. And he's like, really, what are you doing? And so I told him my dream. I told him I wanted to do and be in the grocery stores. I showed him everything and where we want it. And he just kind of laughed and he's like, all right. Yeah. Good luck. Yeah. Good. That's like the best feeling ever. So absolutely. You're doing it and you're making a difference. Yeah. Yeah. You really are. For regenerative farming. I love this. I have such a fire in my belly for it. And I just want to have, I want to empower other farmers small like me. You can do it too. Come with us. We'll show you. And when we're done, when you're done with us, you don't have to stay with us. You can, if you want, but you can go off on your own too. You know, we want you to be free. Yeah. I want to give people back some of that. Absolutely. I want to try to help. That freedom. Yeah. I mean, yeah, there you go. Yeah. You're making a huge difference though. And it's something that I can align with the health piece and like our, you know, food is medicine, like I said. I appreciate you putting, doing what you do and empowering other farmers to do the same. Cause I think the more that we have that, the more power we can get back to the people in our health and taking control of our own lives. So without taking too much time, cause I know you have a massive farm to attend to. Sophie, thank you so much for sharing us and letting us come to your farm, seeing the chickens come out and sharing with us the amazing story and the amazing, incredible impact that you're making on your community. Absolutely. Absolutely. And there's always more to come from us. We have, we got tricks on our sleeves, girl. You just wait. Oh, I cannot wait. And this is not the last time we'll be talking. And I always look forward to seeing everything you post. I feel like I'm at the farm and I'll have to come visit. Yes. And actually get some footage out there too. Cause I'm like, yeah, I'm like, cause it's something that I've always wanted to do, but that's a conversation for another day. But no, thank you so much for letting us be a part of your morning. Yes. And I hope you have the best day ever. Thank you for joining us. Warrior Rising thanks you too. Thank you so much Warrior Rising for everything. Where can everyone find you if they want to see what you're up to or how they can buy eggs? Yeah. So we are located in Siler City, North Carolina, S-I-L-E-R City. We have two locations that we're currently selling at right now. We also do farmers markets as well. Chatham Meat Co. located in Siler City and Sanford. We are actively trying to get into sprouts right now. The Whole Foods store. And we can be found on Instagram and on Facebook at Pineland Pastures Farm. I hope you guys check us out. And if you want more information about what we're doing, please hit us up. We love to share what we're doing. Absolutely. Thank you again, Sophie. And for everyone listening, thank you for tuning in. This has been another incredible voice that makes Warrior Rising the premier place to be as a veteran entrepreneur. Bye, guys.