What is Precision Agriculture? What is the meaning of Precision Farming?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WhAfZhFxHTs
Science & Technology
 Precision agriculture is a method in which farmers optimize inputs such as water and fertilizer to enhance productivity, quality and yield. The term also involves minimizing pests and diseases through spatially targeted application of precise amount of pesticides. It means that you will deal with parts of your field in an appropriate way, in different ways, because these different parts of the field, they are different. The soil may be different a little bit, the sun which is being received by that field, part of the field may be different, the slope may be different. So there is varying factors across, factors varying across a particular parcel, taking those into account in order to maximize the crop, taking ecological factors into account. So what exactly is precision agriculture and how is it different from traditional farming? The traditional agriculture where everything has started, this is actually from experience handed over. Technology has also improved. So they started with animals, in the beginning they built up machines, tractors and so on. And then they realized, okay, if I'm more precise on planting, harvesting, fertilizing, then I actually get also more out of my fields. And this is exactly the difference where the precision makes the difference in the efficiency or in the productivity of a farm. And this is where precision agriculture is actually only a driver for measure another level of productivity in agriculture. Precision farming is a farming management concept based on observing and responding to intra-field variations. It relies on new technologies like satellite imagery, GPS, information technology and other geospatial tools. Let's try and understand this better. Suppose you have 20 hectares and you are getting 100 tons per hectare of yield. A remote sensing image of your field shows the difference between the yield in various parts of the same ground. Areas marked in red show the yield of 20 ton per hectare, while areas marked in blue show yield of 120 ton per hectare, a difference of 100 tons. Or in other words, not optimizing yield from these 100 tons is leading to loss in productivity. Observing variability in crop is the first step of precision agriculture process. evaluating all this information together can give you a better understanding of the causes of variability in your farm. Depending on evaluation, you can manage your crop better. Sensors in field measure the moisture content and temperature of the soil and surrounding air. Satellites and robotic drones provide farmers with real-time images of individual plants. information from those images can be processed and integrated with sensors and other data to yield guidance for immediate and future decisions, such as precisely what fields to water and when or where to plant a particular crop. For example, it can give you an idea if you need to apply a particular mineral or fertilizer in one area of your land rather than using it in the entire farm, thus saving your money, resource and time. Geospatial science has a major role to play in securing both food and nutritional security in agricultural systems. Geospatial technologies such as GPS, GNSS, remote sensing and drones play an important role in precise location of problems, optimizing resources and maximizing yield. This is higher precision GNSS which actually only enables one to two centimeter accuracy to really bring this precision down to the field to the crops where they actually need it to get the productivity. On the other component or the other technology that you need, it's also of course also the machine together with the tools that you have in your bag, that they are adjusted and calibrated to each other because the positions that you measure on the roof, it's not what the farmer is interested in. He is interested in the centimeter on the ground down there. So you have to know what is the distance between these two points to make it really precise as an entire thing. Unmanned aerial vehicles or UAVs allow farmers to monitor crop and livestock conditions consistently by air to find problems that would not be visible in ground level spot checks. An apt example, a farmer can inspect whether his crop is not being properly irrigated through time lapse. But we are also seeing increasing growth in agriculture. So that's using different sensors like multi-spectral sensors to basically fly over the crops and measure the reflectance of the light to see where the crops are healthy and where they are struggling. Today, mobile apps, smart sensors, drones and cloud computing make precision agriculture possible for farming cooperatives and even small family farms.