Watch Chris from Hillside Farmers Plant Bell Peppers with a Walk Behind Tractor!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WHN909-7UaY
Entertainment
 kingrest Isaac Her life as Anders He says What was the evening of you? He died yeah welcome to another hillside farmer session it's been a while since we have upload however as you can see we are here trying to do some bench terracing right in the Elkosafee they call it bench working so what we are doing we're trying to create some bench with some cultivated trips on the inner side and then the what they call the dykes or bun that prevent the runoff of the top side from each bench work here so what we plan to do today is to try to get some at least well we have one that we almost finished bench work so we can plant out our sweet pepper there we have some fertilizer in there we have the organic one and the the chemical produced one here the sweet peppers they are as you can see they are bearing when we we had them for a while under some shade house up by the out by my house right so they are bearing they I think they were growing beautiful we have here some chemicals these are some chemicals I'm gonna put them around it the sweet pepper when I plant them and blind them I have 20 20 here and I have a test fertilizer for plant that is in the bearing part of it so you can see that it has SI which stands for what silicon and O2 which is oxygen so I think this is silicon ox oxide I'm not sure I should say all right but I'm not sure but we have some of these that we have to deal with this is the oh yeah you can see how they look massive in the bag this is the homemade fertilizer fertilizer I did I did I did a farmer a part tree that drop down break down without a whole lot of pop on it and I take some eggshell crush them up and put them down we take all sweet pepper and all um pepper and tomato and drop it in night and leave it for your boat it's a clock about three months now all right so so this are going to um ferment and turn fertilizer I think it reached the stage where it is to use to apply to the plant we have to dilute it down to dilute it down to dilute it down to dilute it down to one volume of this liquid you put three volume of water to it so whatever unit of volume you're working with to every one you put three right so if you are working with meter cube liter you use one liter of this to three liter of water and we are going to work with the tractor too so we have one walk behind tractor down here me call it to a walk back tractor it has a tilling implement on it we're going to run it through this and pull up the land so we can start dropping some now what you're seeing here is bumble to support a little shade at it what I plan to do as I go down the steps I'm going to each step is going to have a shade covering it so each shade no matter the time of the day the shade will affect all of the them all of the lower one but anybody at the maximum top won't get that effect of the shade but through the still side here it will help to reduce the amount of sun and penetrating the sweet pepper all right so hold a second till we get to the tilling part of the tractor the exciting part all right all right yeah yeah so let me tell you about the walk behind tractor we came from down there come up here so if you can see me dead with sweat yeah so the little something here now it has a part where we can put an implement all right now it's a tillage implement depending this is a protective tractor to ensure that the implement don't catch your foot when you work it as this to protect the trucker and then this when you start the machine you must click this little red button here so when you hold this down it allows it to start operating drive it allows the plow in this to rotate this gear thing here this like with the bicycle gear it allow for reverse and power drive but in this case the forward driver the reverse not working here so it's a four truck engine i know it look like a two truck but it's a four truck you have to do the gas separate from the aisle right so the aisle come in here so the gas come here so you have the rabbit and turtle speed you know the gear system and this we get it from this little thing here you have the choking system this allow it and you have gas in and gas out the maximum that you want to use at a time all right so we are going to run it all right so i'm going to turn on the machine get a small run see how far it bring me kind of complicated from the narrow stretcher but we are going to do a thing you know so press on the switch button draw the card me already did choke it all right so all right when you hold on the pedal you go and you put the implement in your impact that entity move yeah so you Alright. So yeah, we have a plant some. We have done kind of run the tractor over the thing you know. I'm going to plant the sweet pepper. If you can't see, a sweet pepper you have a big sweet pepper on it. Yeah, it will take long to plant it out. Alright. But when we plant them out same time, I go, you see some eggshells, I go put all the necessary fertiliser around them and water them. I know that the time it will be hot, we have transplanted them out, but I tell you, I eat what we have done. I go water them by the root. I don't have the water to catch the plant so you can steam it. So I go try that as best as possible. So, I dig out the hole here so, I go take out the plant out of that bag. I don't like some person plant it with the, eh, some person plant it with the bag in it, but the bag not break down fast enough so I really like to do that you know. It's not polluting them, it's not going to plant it with the plant. So, I'm going to try to take out this. Nice. See it there. Alright. And then I put there so. Now try the best for get the strength. The tree itself heavy because the fruit upon it. But, try a thing as so. Alright. And then I'm going to try to plant it. As you can see, I have a few pepper to plant. So I'm going to speed up the process and do some planting. そしたが、書いて、濃まってる期間がいいの! news flop線、書いてる必要がない。 thoroughな空間なのを言ったカバーとしてる時の方がいいのが出来上がっています。 Thank you.