45 Incredible and Extreme Agriculture Machines You Have to See
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wipn31suafk
Entertainment
 Welcome to the Plough Channel, your go-to source for all things agriculture machines and genius tools, heavy equipment machines and more. The machine you now see on your screen is designed to feed round bales up to 2 meters in diameter and weighing just over a ton. It is equipped with a hydraulic loading arm and a two-tooth spear to lift and place the bale on the table. The loading arm can also be used to carry a second bale into the field. Once placed on the table, the apron chain rotates the bale as the tines of the drum untangle the hay. Looking for a way to increase your productivity and business volume? Then you should check out the best small square bale wrapper on the market, the Arcusen Multipack, new model D14. It is an independent machine that can be used with any baler and any 80 horsepower tractor. Low maintenance and low consumption will help you reduce storage space and transportation expenses. With a machine like this, you're sure to have a successful season. Just look at the technological monsters that the well-known company Krone has released into the world. Its new machines ranging from 687 to 1156 horsepower are truly impressive. These heavy-duty forage harvesters are characterized by high efficiency and productivity, as well as a high mark can be given to the quality of crop chopping. On top of all of this, we should not forget the high comfort and easy handling of these machines. discover the latest generation, three models at once, of trailed rotary tetters from Krone. With working widths from 9 meters to 11.2 meters, these machines offer unrivaled productivity and efficiency in forage processing. The design concept of the Vendro series is combined with innovative and proven technical features and unrivaled ease of use to ensure maximum operational reliability, efficiency and excellent forage quality. Let's move on to the Garford Electric Weeder. And straight to its advantages, 8 mm of precision from the plant's stem is sufficient because weeds that are less than 8 mm away cannot compete with the plant. Thus, this machine provides effective weed control throughout the entire field. The machine is ideal for farmers growing lettuce and vegetables without or with reduced application of chemicals, allowing effective weed control and saving money, as manual labor is usually pricier. The machine is ideal for farmers to use to use the same as the plant. The seed hawk is a precision pneumatic seeder that delivers unrivaled accuracy on all soil conditions. Whether practicing no-till, minimum tillage, or conventional tillage, the seed hawk's innovative pneumatic trailer mounted bar seeding system delivers exceptional seed and fertilizer application in a single pass. The result is faster and more uniform sprouting, better quality and higher yields, increasing your farm's return on investment. The TS-970 from Krone has electric working height adjustment and a rotary height indicator. A double swath of almost 20 meters is the ideal conditions for a high-performance forage harvester. Their three rotor side rigs do all their tasks perfectly, impressing with outputs of up to 10 hectares per hour and making the harvesting chain even more economical. Thanks to the Ackermann wide-track chassis with Ackermann steering, these large rakes are extremely maneuverable and easy to steer. EasyCut has introduced its TC Connect, which allows the attachment of two trailed mowers with a central drawbar combined with a Krone front mower. Their working width reaches 13 meters. The logical conclusion is to achieve maximum efficiency and controlled movement. Single mower operation is also preserved and no conversion measures are required. The Optimer Independent Discs Double Cultivator is a pioneer in the field of soil tillage. However, this machine already has certain competitive advantages. First, it has an improved throughput of all types of crop residues to maximize the straw-soil mixture and accelerate their decomposition. The cultivator also features exceptional work with quality, with unequal penetration and a large clearance to prevent the risk of clogging. Radishes are grown and consumed all over the world and are mostly eaten raw as a crunchy salad vegetable. But few people think about how this crunchy vitamin treat is harvested in the fields, in large quantities. Looking at how this machine works, you'll know for sure that the radish harvesting process can be interesting and unusual. The Jaden Small Bale Accumulator is ideal for any large farmer or contractor baling small square bales. All functions of the accumulator are controlled from the tractor cap, making it elementary and easy to use. Two units are available, one that collects 15 and one that collects 10 square bales. The 10 unit is ideal for longer bales. The TC1370 Four Rotor Center Rake is characterized by numerous technical features. They include convenient settings and adjustments that make work much easier and ensure optimum raking results with a large area coverage. Variable working widths from 10.8 meters to 13.7 meters and swath widths from 1.4 meters to 2.2 meters are possible on the Swadro model. I would like to point out that the machine is ideal for use on large areas. You see a mounted stump trimmer from Rabat, which is perfect for excavators from 4.5 to 8 tons. The disc thickness is 20 millimeters, the teeth size 5, 7 and 9 made of carbide, which can be used 3 times until completely worn out. There will be no additional cost for a third hydraulic line, and the angular gear mounted directly on the disc is designed to increase power. The Dredge King is the largest slurry removal vessel and can be used in multifunctional ways for dredging. The four hydraulic supports ensure high stability during operation. Due to the optimal use of the supports, the slurry dinghy can be loaded independently, so no crane is required. This video shows a triple combination from Chrome, namely the easy cut of the new model F320 and the modern B1000 with M-Rolls air conditioning. This system has undergone many tests in the 2021 season, proving to be the best. Well, and the third component is the dual-purpose pickup trailer. The M-Rolls roller conditioner provides gentle handling of sensitive alfalfa and faster drying of the harvested crop. The result is the highest forage quality. Just take a look at this unusual tilling machine from the popular Damcon company. This model is not only different in appearance, but also in equipment. It has powerful horizontal cultivators, and the shallow hoe adjustment effectively cuts the root neck of weeds. This machine is available for different working widths, and can be supplemented with finger and or torsion weed equipment. We hope you enjoyed this journey with the flow. Join our community by subscribing and leaving a comment about your favorite part of our videos on agriculture machinery, ingenious tools and heavy equipment.