Agriculture form 1 crop production 1  land preaparation lesson 24
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WlZhLQY8drU
Education
 Hello viewers, welcome to Elim TV, a station where you watch, learn and also interact. Your teacher is Mr Wanyoike, an agriculture teacher. In today's lesson, we are in Form 1, lesson 24, topic, crop production 1. It deals with land preparation. Subtopic, importance of land preparation. On to the lesson objectives. By the end of this lesson, you should be able to, number one, explain the various tools and equipment used during land clearing. Then, number two, state the various methods of land clearing. Terms used, we have land preparation. And what is land preparation? These are the various activities that are carried out in the farm to prepare the land or to make the land suitable for planting. Or the land to be ready to receive the planting material. Then, we have the land, some of the activities which are carried out, we have during land preparation. The first one, we have land clearing. And this refers to the cutting down or the vegetation cover on a particular piece of land. Then, we have the primary cultivation and secondary cultivation. Primary cultivation refers to the initial opening of land in a virgin land. Or the initial opening of land, following land clearing. Then, we have secondary cultivation. It entails the process of harrowing or seedbed refinement. Whereby, the farmer normally goes back to the field after carrying out primary cultivation. And breaks down the large soil clouds into small pieces. So that you can establish a fine till. Which will promote uniform germination. And also, uniform depth of planting. Then, we have the methods of land clearing. The first method, we have the tree fairing. And during tree fairing, you can use various methods. For those people who are doing land clearing on large scale, they can cut down the trees using the bulldozer. And that is a machine which is well displayed there. And you can, as well as use, for the small scale farmers, they can use a nut to cut down or to during tree fairing. And also, you can use a power saw or electric saw whenever it comes to tree fairing as the method of land clearing. Then, we have the second method, we have the burning method. But this method is not advisable. Why? Because it will end up lowering the soil fertility. Because the high temperature which is induced, it will cause the soil microorganisms. Which are very, very beneficial to the plant also to die due to high temperature. So, it is very, very, it is not advisable for you to use this method. Then, we have the slashing method. As you can see, it is well illustrated here. You can use a slasher. Also, you can use a panga when it comes to slashing of the vegetation cover. Then, we have the fourth method is chemical method. In chemical method, we normally use the chemicals that are sprayed in the farm. In order to mitigate the problem of the vegetation cover. Therefore, all the vegetation cover will die at the end as a result of being affected by the chemicals which are normally used. What are the factors that necessitate land clearing? One, whenever you are preparing a virgin land. Remember, virgin land is the one which has never been cultivated before. And therefore, it is bushing. And therefore, you have to carry out land clearing. Then, the second one, previous crop. If the previous crop was a stump, was made up of some stump. And therefore, it will necessitate land clearing. For example, maize. If the previous crop was maize, you should carry out land clearing in order to pave way for the subsequent operations. Such as primary and secondary cultivation before planting is done. Then, we have interval between primary and secondary cultivation. Some farmers normally carry out primary cultivation. Then, there is a very big gap in between the primary, the time when the primary is done and the secondary done. It means that there is the growth of the crop, of the weeds again in the field. And therefore, it necessitate for land clearing to be done. And also, where the land has been left fallow for a long period of time. If the land is left in uncutivated condition for a period of two years, it necessitate land clearing to be done first before the other subsequent operation to be exercised. Then, we have tools which are used on the machine. The tools, equipment or machine which are used during land clearing. We have a slasher. You can use a panga. You can use a marchet. You can use a burdozer. And also, you can use a power. So, what are the reasons for land clearing? Number one, to kill the wind. And number two, to reclaim the land. This is to make land useful. The land which was not useful, after you carry out land clearing, it becomes useful. Then, to facilitate, finally, it is to facilitate easier carrying out of subsequent operation, such as primary cultivation and secondary cultivation. We have come to the ends of today's lesson. And the questions which I'm going to assign you is, in form of assignment, the first question is, list any four types of tools and equipment or machine used during land clearing? Then, the second question, state any three reasons for carrying out land clearing? Then, number three, mention any three methods of land clearing. Then, for reference, you can refer from the secondary agriculture student book one. And the publisher is the Kenya Literature Bureau. Then, for more information, you can reach us at ElimTV through the following addresses. The first one, you can use SMS using the number which is well displayed for you. You can use the YouTube at ElimTV and also Facebook platform at ElimTV. And finally, you can tweet us using at ElimTV underscore KE. Thank you for joining me in this lesson. Please stay tuned to the next lesson. Bye-bye.