Ecosystem services
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wMIUglBligI
Science & Technology
 Music Without nature, human life wouldn't be possible. We sometimes forget this basic principle. Even more often, we don't realise all the goods and services ecosystems provide us. From food, clean air and water, to shelter and medicine. Mechanisms for climate regulation and pollination, just to mention a few. Our economies and our society's dependence on these natural resources is clearly underestimated. Yet globally, these services are worth trillions of euros. Together, insect pollination benefits 75% of crops around the world, ensuring a secure supply of food and healthy and varied diets. In Europe alone, the pollination service to commercial crops is valued at 22 billion euro. We are protecting biodiversity because it is the right and ethical thing to do, but also because it is in our self-interest. But this valuable natural capital remains under threat, day after day. Mainly due to human activities, biodiversity is disappearing, faster than ever. Ecosystems are constantly degraded and their capacity to provide services is compromised. It represents enormous social and economic costs, mainly deflected to the poor and future generations. The real problem is that the value of nature's services is still largely invisible to decision makers in businesses and governments. And the principal reason is that the value of natural capital is not measured and therefore it is not valued. Solutions based on nature instead of built infrastructure have proven to be cost efficient ways of achieving the same or even better results and at the same time creating more decent jobs while protecting the environment. We live on a finite planet and are fundamentally dependent on nature for our very existence. Recognising the value of ecosystems and their services and seeing them as a part of the solution to societal challenges is the only way to ensure human well-being in the long term. As a first step forward, the European Union, already committed to halting the loss of biodiversity and to restoring ecosystems, has launched MAS. This ambitious program aims at mapping and assessing ecosystems and services provided all over the Union. The ultimate objective is to highlight the natural capital we have and the benefits it gives us. And then, to rethink our perception of wealth in order to live well within the limits of the planet. Near the can of whatsapp殖 And this is its highest known thread for its loyal consumer credit. It has much more assumed legitimacy beyond the input of the strategic plan for its常 persistence. And it takes place science and keen этому intelligence for its own recognition right kelvin21fuzzo. So from 시청 on Netanyahu Leon, shows you about the experience of używanство.