Advancing Sustainable Agriculture: Real-World Insights on Polyhalite’s Benefits for Soil Health
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WnPq3Zetc2Y
Science & Technology
 Good morning, good afternoon everyone. We're gonna wait about 30 seconds to see if we can get some like comers to filter in and then we will go ahead and begin the webinar. Thank you. Welcome everyone. We are pleased to have this webinar on advancing sustainable agriculture, specifically discussing a bit of a partnership that we recently did with Anglo American on some of their products and the impact of those products on soil health. So the agenda first, we'll go through and introduce ourselves and then we'll, I guess I've already kind of talked a little bit about this partnership where we've really looked at this Anglo American product from a soil health perspective, looking at how it impacts the biology of the soils. And then we'll go through and we'll, we'll talk a little bit about what's the technology behind how we measure soil health in these bee crop trials. And then we'll have Anglo American go through and really describe the purpose behind the trials, the results of these trials and kind of their perspective on this product that they're promoting. And then we will have a grower that will come in and actually talk about the real world impact of this product in their field. And then finally, we will, we will open it up for questions. If you do have any questions, there should be a question button on your, on your, the panel, and you should be able to just input the questions there. We will try to address as many of those questions as we can at the end. If we can't get to your questions, we will be sure to follow up through email and let you give you the answer to the questions that you might have. So I'll start by introducing myself. My name is Jacob Harnell. I am a lead agronomist with biomakers. I have have about 15 years now in looking at microbiomes and have really kind of focused in on agriculture. I've spent time in academia, doing kind of academic research in the lab. I spent time in industry, developing products for sustainable agriculture. And I've also spent some time in kind of the civil kind of society. So with UN with an NSF funded project, the National Ecological Observatory Network kind of designing and guiding strategies for assessing soil biodiversity. So that is my background. I will turn the time over to Catherine to give a little bit of background. Hi everyone. My name is Catherine Bartlett. I'm a soil science principal at Anglo American Crop Nutrients. So really my role here is to manage and think out research questions around soil science across all three major sectors of soil science. So soil biology, soil chemistry and soil physics. So breadth and depth that we can get in relation to polyhalide very specifically, the agricultural and the agricultural agriculture sector, and thinking through innovations that can be made in this space. Pass on to Ben. Ben, do you want to go ahead and introduce yourself a little bit here? Yeah. Hi, I'm Ben. Farmer in Southwest UK. Looking really at farming as regeneratively as possible, using what Mother Nature gave us, so to speak. Concentrating on profitability, therefore seeing as much profit or as much income staying on the farm, rather than spend on costly inputs, which means basically farming with biology and then biological systems, making sure that we mimic nature as much as we possibly can and get whatever we can that nature can offer to us without fighting in every direction, which seemed to have cost me an awful lot of money in the past. So, we'll be able to do a lot of things. Thank you. Thank you very much. So, we will move on now and kind of get into kind of our technology. One of the things that we're able to do with biomakers is we're able to actually do a trial of a product. So, in this case, we're talking about this Anglo-American Polyphor product. And basically what we're able to do is we look at the biology. So, from a soil sample, we're able to compare treated versus untreated. And we're able to collect the DNA from that soil sample. We're able to extract the DNA and sequence the organisms and really kind of compare the functionality of the communities. So, we don't necessarily provide a big long list of all the species, but what we do is we're able to understand what are the species doing in those fields and how are the communities changing with relationship to the application of this product? How does it change the function of the microbial community? So, we're able to look at things like disease risk. So, we're able to look both at pathogens as well as what is the natural capacity of the soil to suppress those pathogens. We're able to look at yield projections, look at the beneficial microbes that contribute to plant health. We're able to look at how does this impact, how does it change when you look at different locations. One of the things we do know, especially with biology, is that it's different in different soils, different locations, different climates. All of these environmental variables play a major role in determining how soils behave, the biology of the soils, the health of the soils. So, we're able to look at all of these and evaluate products. So, on one hand, we're able to say, and it's not just products, it's management practices. You know, what does tilling versus no-tilling do? What does a different cover crop do? How does that impact the biology and the microbial community of that system? So, the way that we do this is that we will have basically side-by-side fields, you know, plots, however you want to look at it. And we'll have one field where we intend to apply this treatment. In the case that we're describing today, it's this Poly4 product. And so, before we do anything, we want to look at that background assessment. What does that community look like? And so, we'll collect samples from both of those soils before we've done anything so that we know what that baseline is. And then, to one of those plots, the product will be applied. In this case, it's Poly4, but it could be tillage. It could be any number of practices or products or whatever it is where we want to be able to measure what impact does this, does Poly4 have on the biology of the soils. And then, we're able to, over the next weeks, months, however long you want to look at that, we're able to look and see how does the biology between those two different side-by-side plots change? How does the function change in those different communities? So, the results come back in an easy to interpret, easy to understand, kind of either a portal or else you can get kind of a download some PDF reports, where we're able to summarize kind of those key functional differences. So, how does the biology shift? Not just, you know, what are the lists of species that are changing, but it really gets down to something that either an input manufacturer, a grower, but something that they can understand. How do my nitrogen pathways shift or my phosphorus pathways shift? How do my nutrient or my disease, how do all of these things change? How do my nutrient and what does that mean to my crop? So, here we can show, for example, inorganic phosphorus solubilization, organic matter release, things that make sense, that understand from an agricultural perspective of, you know, what is good and what is bad. And we're able to see how those change over the course of time and over the course of applying a product or a different practice. We're able to look at changes in hormone production. These are hormones that the microbiome produces to interact with the plants. Growth stimulants, development of plant characteristics of traits. And so, a lot of the biostimulants that are out there are really impacting either kind of hormone production or stress adaptation. And so, we're able to look and say, you know, what is happening to, with the microbiome to impact the health of plants of the soil. And then we're able to basically look at that and compare that and provide that difference. We're able to show how a product actually works out in the field, how a practice actually impacts the biology of the field. So, we're able to look at that and see kind of the bigger picture of how it's relating to these nutrient cycles, how it's relating to plant health, to stress, to disease. We're able to tie it back to each one of these different factors and really provide that information for a grower, for an input manufacturer in a way that they can look at it and they can see how a product or a practice, you know, whatever it is that they want to look at, is really impacting the biology and the health of the soil in their system. So, now I'm going to turn the time over to Catherine and she's going to walk us through the trial that they did. So, we did the analysis, but they did all of the setup. They looked at all the metadata. And so, Catherine, walk us through your trial and the product and what you were hoping to get out of this analysis. Great. Thanks, Jacob. So, I'm going to talk today about a small part of the experimental work that we have done with yourselves at Biomakers. So, here I'm going to talk about how poly4, one particular polyhalite-based product, impacts on the microbiome functionality in relation to plant development, that performance and the yield. And this trial was a pot trial that was run in Spain on two crops, wheat and tomatoes, hence the previous picture. So, first of all, what's polyhalite? Well, polyhalite is a naturally occurring mineral. It's an evaporate mineral, which is very nutrient dense. It contains potassium, sulfur, magnesium and calcium in a complex mineral form. And so, consequently, when you apply polyhalite products, you're applying four of the main plant macronutrients at the same time. Now, polyhalite can be found in many places in the world, but the most high purity and most economically able to access field is in the North Sea. It's actually just below the North Sea in the old Sextime Basin, which is found just off the coast in Yorkshire, which is where we are currently constructing Woodsmith Mine. So, if you'd like to know more information about Anglo-American's polyhalite and the access that we have to that polyhalite, you can look up uk.angloamerican.com and you'll find lots of information about the mine and the setup of the mine. But it's a special mineral. It has some extremely unique benefits. And because when we are mining it from Woodsmith, we won't be processing it chemically. And the after process to make the poly-4 product itself, it's very minimal. We actually have a low product, a low waste product, sorry, with a low carbon footprint. And we've already achieved in many jurisdictions organic certification. And as soon as the mine itself is online and we have full access, then we would anticipate being a fully certified organic product in most of the major markets. So you can go on to the next slide, please. So, first of all, I wanted to kind of give a bit more context around soils and their place in agricultural systems. Now, I'm going to sound very biased here. I'm a soil scientist of some 20 odd years of experience. And so consequently, I believe that soil is the foundation of life on Earth. And you're not going to sway me from that. However, we designed this illustration with Glyn Gorek, an artist in Cambridge, who helped us to try and contextualize all of the things that happen within an agricultural ecosystem. The relevance when we're trying to create crop production. So here, the top, you can obviously see a crop and the process of that crop developing over time. You can see seasonality. You can also see the below ground piece, which for me is the most interesting, where we can talk about going from left to right here. The physical structure, the mineralogy of that soil, the clay structures, the cation exchange and going across, thinking about the microbiome like we're currently about to talk about. And then going off and thinking about larger microbiology and then into things like drainage and into the hydrological cycle. So this image is really around trying to understand how these small but mighty interactions of the soil microbiome have an impact on the crops that we grow, but also on the system as a whole. We can't separate any one of these sets of ideas from another. So when we're adding an input into a system, we are impacting not just one thing at any one time. It might be a chemical product that we're applying that might affect something in the cation exchange, but it's going to have a knock on impact through that biology, through that physical structure. And as we already know, the soil microbiome is responsible for so many important aspects of crop production. Everything from the nutrient cycling into plant available forms, right through to how our soil actually forms and how it structures. So it's a hugely important element. And in order for me to be able to understand my work better in its context, I find this image really a very helpful way of thinking through how all of these things interact and the interplay between those. And as a scientist, that's the bit that's really interesting is where we have an interplay between these. So I'll go on and talk to you about the work that we did in a bit more detail. Jacob moves the slides here. So the experimental object is that I'm going to talk about today, which is a small part of a much larger experiment, to be fair. We're really thinking about assessing the impact of poly4, which is a granulated polyhalide product and other fertilizers on the soil microbiome diversity and its function in the way that Jacob has described, but also to evaluate that nutrient use efficiency of different elements of those nutrients that we're adding in and correlating those to the soil microbial mobilization pathways. And also to physical indicators of plant success or growth. So in the 2004 experiments, we use two different crop types, tomatoes and wheat. So here we picked tomatoes because they're notoriously likely to have an issue, a disease issue or to have a nutrient deficiency. And wheat because obviously as a fertilizer going to market, wheat is one of the major cropping types. We wanted to get the comparison between these two different dichotylies on plants. We also chose two different soil textural types. So here we had a sandy clay and a sandy loam textural classification of soil. And we did four different treatments. So we have our poly4 product as described, and then we have three other comparator fertilizer products that were available on the market. And the trial was conducted in Spain. It says there that it's a greenhouse trial, but it wasn't actually a greenhouse trial. It was run outside because of the temperature of the year that we ran it in. So we used the bee crop technology in part to look at some of the mobilization aspects and the functional aspects of the microbial community to help us with that characterization of what impact these fertilized wax were having in three different dose rates on those two different crops and two different soils. So it's quite a large experiment because we measured it in four time periods as well during the growth. And to make sure that the plants stayed alive to some level, even in treatments which were quite harsh, we applied potassium nitrate as a base fertilizer across all of those pots at a 50% rate. So we go on to the next slide. Thank you. So we measured an awful lot of parameters here, and I'm only going to talk about a few of them. But trust me, the data exists in lots and lots of sheets. So we took volume measures of the main nutrients. We took soil measures of those nutrients, but also obviously texture, pH, conductance, so on. And we also looked at plant physiological measures. So here things like NDVI. We looked at yield, obviously. We looked at height, shoot fresh weight, root fresh weight, which I'll show you some of that data later. If we can go on. Yeah, great. And here's just an example picture. Now, one thing I will note here before we continue is you'll see the wheat trial is on the left of your screen, the tomato trial is on the right. You can see from these sandy clay soils that actually the soils that we were dealing with were very, very low in organic matter. There were agricultural soils previously. But obviously we would expect to have a slightly reduced microbial biomass in a soil like this with quite low organic matter. And you don't need to say any more just by the color. So you can tell that the organic matter concentration in these soils is reasonably low. So moving on. So first of all, when looking at microbiome data, one of the things I personally like to do is to look at the whole scale data in an ordination graph. So here, and I'll make no apologies for the data that I'm showing you in this sense, but they're not simple graphs. So I do apologize for that. But here we have some ordination graphs. And the one on the left hand side of the screen is for bacterial 16S. And the one to the right is the fungal ITS. So here we're looking at the microbiome data. And it's the whole scale data from the whole experiment. So here we're just looking at red is tomato, blue is wheat. And then we have dots and we have squares. And the dots are denoting the sandy clay and the squares are denoting the sandy loam soils. And the first thing that we can notice just by looking at all of this data without yet stepping down and looking further into those treatment effects. Is that actually between the bacteria and the fungal data, we have quite a difference in pattern of that multidimensional data. We can see that maybe not surprisingly, the bacteria is showing more of a separation by those soil types than the fungal ITS markers that you can see on the right. We're also starting to see that there's not a great deal of difference between those cropping types. When we're looking, the most major difference or differentiator there is the soil. And to be fair, that's exactly what I would expect to see. And so my first reason for looking at data in this regard is really just try and make sure that it makes sense in the context of that kind of data. So here we can see some effects of soil in the bacterial population, less so in the fungal, which is perhaps understandable because we're using soil that's been disturbed. It's been removed from an agricultural location and placed into pots. And so you would imagine that you've made a much bigger impact on the larger fungal organelles than you will on the bacterial. And also it takes much longer in time for fungal communities to reestablish themselves. We're seeing some influence of crop type. But mostly we're seeing the order of soil type first, crop type next. And when we look at the data, we can't very clearly see separation between those treatments at this scale. So what we're saying here is that from a diversity perspective, we're not actually seeing an impact of those fertilizers over and above the environmental conditions that they're existing. And that's an important point to note that here, all of those fertilizers are not separating themselves out distinctly from that environmental data. The next slide, please. Thank you. So we wanted to look at the microbial functionality. And as Jacob explained about the B crop system itself, here we start to use algorithm based research on top of that genetic data to apply functionality onto that genetic data. So we're looking at indexing of nutrients and all of this other data that we've collected and trying to find out where we have correlation and where we have strong links between any of those variables that we see. So the two graphs that you can see at the bottom here are just examples. And here I've used potassium. And that's the one that I'll go forward on as an example case study of one of the ways that we've used this B crop system to explore this data. So here you can see the results from a perlinova analysis, which gives you various different variables which are important in potassium functioning in soils. And we looked at those in relation to these microbial indices. And where you see dark colors, you see have a stronger correlation and obviously a number dictates that. So here we go to the right hand side. To the right hand side, we have the same kind of analysis, but here we're looking at the treatment impacts. And so if we look at the green boxes, which are for potassium here in tomatoes, you can see that there's a strong positive correlation. And the green color is the treatment of poly-4. And that's what we'll follow throughout this presentation. All of the green will be the poly-4 related products. So if we can go on and explore that a little bit further. But we're then able to look at this data, not just in terms of the significance by cross-comparing all of these variables. But we can also look at things like the partial factor productivity. So that's the kilogram of harvested product per kilogram of the nutrient that we're applying. So in this case, we're looking at potassium, applied potassium. And here again, you can see those three different dose rates by the color intensity in the chart. And you can also see the green as being poly-4 and the other colors as being the comparator products. To the left hand side of the screen, you have the tomato based results. And to the right, you have the wheat based results. Now, please note that the scales of these two graphs are not the same. There is an order of magnitude difference between the tomato and the wheat crop. But that said, that's so that you can see that there is a difference between those bars. But also bearing in mind that tomatoes have a much stronger demand on potassium than wheat does. And so it follows that the numbers are lower. But here what we're saying is that there is a really strong influence on the microbiome potassium metabolization for the treatments which received poly-4 on top of their base level fertilization. So we see an enhancement of that microbial metabolism in both of the crops and in both of those soil types, which is obviously looking extremely good in an environmental system to have the same impact on different soil types and on different crops from the same product. These are all lower dose rate effects that you can see. So we can say that this is translating to a better potassium assimilation in the plant where we've received higher yields compared to the other treatments also. And this matches a previous set of trials that we did with biomakers in 2023, which just looked at tomatoes. But the results are absolutely in line with those. Let's go forward on to the next one. OK, here's just an example of some of those physical measures. Again, looking at potassium. And so I apologize for the quality of these graphs. I'm afraid I don't have time to redraw them. But we have sandy clay, sandy loam, left and right. And the first one, I think I've lost a label off those graphs. But the first one is the root, the fresh root shoot weight. And the right hand one is fresh shoot weight, I believe. And here we can see again that the green treatment is the poly-4. And we're seeing much improved plant physical properties as a result of those lower dose rates of poly-4 being added into the system. With the exception of the root mass in the bottom left hand corner, which is the wheat treatment. And my hypothesis really for that is probably due to the timing of the product. And perhaps we've reached a point of senescence in that plant. But I do need to explore that data a little bit more. Moving on to the next slide, please. So overall, from the results that we have, we can say that poly-4 has a really positive impact on the potassium microbial mobilization in soils. That is to say that the product itself differentiates in the microbiome. And that's also shown in the plant development, its performance and its yield when we've tested it against comparative products. For both wheat and tomato cups and in both soil textual classes, this is the case. So it's showing an important impact on the plant's ability to take up that potassium. And that's important because our product of the products that we used is probably the lower potassium rate of product. And so it's not necessarily about putting more nutrients in, but modern sustainable agriculture needs to think about putting the right nutrients in at the right time, in the right manner. And so this is kind of nodding to not necessarily applying more inputs, but that you choose quality of input and that you have a system which is more adept at taking in that potassium that you're applying. So this is really important when we start thinking about climate change scenarios and impacts on changing patterns of weather. And one of the things that we looked at in the study was also the relationship between the potassium and that stomatal control in plants. And here, of course, I'm talking about the plants ability to adapt and to reduce losses from evapotranspiration. And if we prove out that case a little more, then the implication is that in dry and drought conditions, your plants not only will be stronger because of better potassium assimilation, but they'll also be stronger because they are better capable of adapting their evapotranspiration. To help deal with those changing environmental conditions. If we move to the next slide. Thanks. So just to really summarize what's a quite a large experiment into three lines. Really for us, the value is in confirming those sustainability claims that we are trying to prove out for our product and our future products as we develop them. And really with the emphasis here that the microbial mobilization of potassium and that plant uptake from the polyphorol specifically was improved and showed across all of those conditions that we tested. And therefore has a huge impact on better plant development on that performance and on that yield. And really it provides us with confidence of the fertilizers impact on that soil microbiome, but also from a soil health perspective, it provides us with some confidence around how we can better advise our farmers to use the product. Keeping in mind all of our wants around encouraging soil health and improving soil health. So with that, I'll pass on to Ben. Awesome. That worked. Okay. I think we'll just get straight into it. I think we've got. So just for a little bit of context, thought I'd better show where I am based in the world, in the UK. Bit of a stutterly start here. As I mentioned, right in the southwest part of the UK is a little bit of land of hope and glory, shall I say. And this is us and where we farm in context of the UK. And if we just move on a bit and I'll just explain a little bit more why it's so important. We live on one of the triple SIs of the world's, the River Y, which is currently having enormous phosphate pollution issues. Some nitrate issues as well. And I actually farm 1% of the River Y itself and therefore feel I have as much responsibility as anybody else to see if I could change the way I farm in order to leave a better future as well for my children. I mean, I used to enjoy fishing this river and doing all sorts and just the actual river itself. And therefore, it's really important part of our farming philosophy. Okay, I'm going to touch now and this is going to be exciting because I'm either going to say next build, next build, next build, or hopefully we might be able to guess it through. We'll see how we get on. But I thought I'd take everybody back to basics really and show how a healthy plant and healthy soil should function. And this is so much of what we base our whole farm on at home. And therefore, I just thought I'd run through it. Now, I am Apple based and I've sent it via a PowerPoint conversion that's now being converted again into Microsoft. The chances of any of these builds actually working will be enormously clever if they do. Let's see what happens when we combine CO2, H2O and sunlight. We form carbohydrates and they're massively important. And what I do tell most people, most farmers, listen guys, the sunshine thankfully hasn't been taxed yet. CO2, they seem to be reducing more and more of it. And H2O as rainfall is free as irrigation isn't. But essentially, as farmers, we're taking three free things and converting them into money, which is why I ask most farmers how on earth we've got into so much debt, if that's the ultimate business model really in farming. So, as we know, photosynthesis creates carbohydrates all day long, assuming the sun is shining, which often doesn't happen in the UK. And then hopefully that sun might disappear and a moon arrives. Oh, the sun's still there. That's not a problem. I mean, things can happen in eclipses. But let's just ignore the sun for now and assume the moon is there. So every evening what happens is these carbohydrates pass into the root zone. Massively important this thing happens. Half a billion years of plant and animal evolution has seen this become such an amazing, the important part of how plants grow. And the reason they go into the soil every evening, if we look at the next build. Oh, dear. OK. That was a surprise, but I do like surprises. That's pretty awesome. We have microbes that feed on carbon rich amino acids. So what's coming out of the plant roots is so important for these microbes to feed on. And that creates the most important synergy between plant and soil. Essentially, the soil is full of this wonderful life. As it says there, there's more living things in a teaspoon of soil than on people on planet Earth. And that's an enormous amount of these microbes living in the soil. And it's so important that we look after these microbes because in return for a plant giving carbohydrates back, who knows what the next build might show us. But let's have a look. Oh, excellent. Our soil is first full of elements. Obviously, sulfur, potassium, boron, and the likes of calcium. And that's massively important because these microbes are able to forage for these nutrients and pass them to the plant. And that is so important in terms of how normally a plant will get nutrition. So this video actually shows microbes in the soil itself under a microscope actually exchanging the end into a plant root. You can see the plant root exudate literally leaking carbohydrate. And what happens is that through the risophagia cycle, these wonderful things in the soil actually zip into the plant root themselves. And through an incredible process, essentially exchange through diffusion, the nutrients they have collected out of the soil. And then the plant grows a little bit of a plant root hair and expels the bacteria back into the soil that goes and recovers, so to speak. Gathers up all the nutrients from the soil and then is attracted again back. It's like a kind of, again, obviously it's called a cycle for a reason. This addiction of these endophytes that are coming out, these plant exudates coming out. So, and it goes round and round and round. And as the nutrients go into the plant, for obvious reasons, the plant grows a bigger solar panel, i.e. leaf, and is able to produce more and more carbohydrates to grow more and more. So it's just an amazing process by which this happens. Now what normally happens, if you put a little build in possibly, yeah. What happens is most of these microbes are killed by pesticides and fertilized with high salt content. And that creates, for obvious reasons, a real problem if you're trying to farm naturally or if you're a plant and, or a farmer for that matter, having to buy more and more nutrients to actually overcome the lack of risophagy cycle. What I noticed looking under the microscope, which is quite cool for another build, is that the poly-4 fertilizer that we were trialing had no effect on the soil microbes, which was very exciting in so much as we could apply these fertilizers. One of the only fertilizers I've noticed is not having a detrimental effect on. And therefore, in actual fact, by the addition of potassium, calcium, sulfur, and magnesium, we were able to actually uplift plant yield without having the detrimental effect that we normally do on the soil biology that brings so much more to the party. And then if we go back to the, if we go forward, but back, if you see what I mean, there we go. Now these wonderful microbes are respiring CO2, as you can possibly imagine, living like me or you. And it's quite important that we understand what happens to this carbon dioxide because very little is wasted in natural environments. A third of the CO2, the carbon is stored as sequestered as carbon. And then hopefully we'll see that a third of the CO2 mixes with the soil moisture and that creates carbonic acid. And that's really important because this mild acid actually strips away the parent material nutrients and makes them available to the microbes themselves. So essentially the waste of the microbe is creating more access to, to, to, to more nutrients to give to the plant, which is rather quite a clever, clever little story. Another third. Oh dear. Well, that's fine. Basically that's jumped a bit, but that's fine. Basically the, the rest of the CO2 ends up remaining in the soil surface and that creates its own problems. Because as you can imagine, much like humans, if we were living in a CO2 dense environment, funny enough, we suffocate and so do soil microbes. So there has to be a natural way of expeling this soil CO2 out of the soil surface. And it just so happens the moon's gravity on water actually forces the CO2 out of the soil surface by being pulled every 12 hours and 25 minutes. And if we build again, who knows where we're going. Oh, awesome. It also shows that a third of this CO2 that comes out of the soil surface. There's every reason to understand why the stomata of every, well not every plant, but 95% of plants on planet Earth are on the underside of a leaf. To intercept and capture this CO2. If this is one of the most important things we need to put into a plant, including sunlight and water, then it makes the sense that it gathers up as much CO2 as it possibly can. And it happens to be the next build that six times more CO2 comes out of your soil and is in the atmosphere. So there we are driving more efficiency. So it's an absolute wonderful sequence of how this works. And then hopefully the next build shows the soil taking a breath or an inhale. Yep. It's just so wonderful. Our atmosphere is 21% oxygen. That's rather quite useful for most things to breathe. 78% nitrogen. This nitrogen that everybody seems to be addicted to buying. It's any wonder we have 85,000 tons of nitrogen freely available over every hectare of ground in the whole of the planet. And yet we seem to go out of our way to buy in lorry loads and lorry loads of nitrogen. If only we actually realize that 78% of what enters the soil and the healthy soil was full of nitrogen and allowed to actually be taken into a plant by all of the soil microbes and how soil microbes and functions work. It'd be amazing to see. So without further ado, I basically ask most people I speak to, including myself on a daily basis, you know, a healthy soil takes a breath every 12 hours, 20 hours. And this is something we really need to home in on. If you haven't got a soil that's breathing, then have you got anything that's actually working? And funny enough, if you're fighting everything at every stage, that creates its own problems. So moving on, we've talked way too much on there. We've been using polyhalide or poly four for three years now in trials on potatoes is we've done quite a few crops. But potatoes has been one of the more exciting ones. We're trying to grow a carbon sequestrated crop of potatoes. It's been something of a challenge, but something that has been really quite an exciting journey. And what's been really exciting is when we've decided to go full region on our potatoes and that's including growing companion crops, using compost teas, using poly four as part of this region program. What we've seen is yield increases or yield has not been affected in the slightest. And everyone tells us in the UK that you have to grow more and more potatoes in more and more phosphate in order to get yield. So we're certainly bucking that trend. And interesting enough, for those that are convinced of yield, yield, yield, I'm not so convinced on yield, yield, yield. I'm more convinced on the cost of what it costs me to grow things these days. I have little effect on yield, but I can have a huge effect on what it costs to grow. And what we found using regenerative principles, including, like I said, the poly four, we're under a third of the cost of what we did conventionally, but for little to no yield effect in the slightest. So it's been a phenomenal learning journey, as I mentioned on the next slide. It's I don't expect anybody to read this. This essentially is under the microscope where I've looked at all the all the microbes of what's happening in this in these soils under the potato trials. And long story short, anything in red is generally a bad thing. Anything in green is good. And as you can see where we've used conventional versus the poly four trials, the conventional stayed relatively green all the way through, even even including harvest. And that's had a massive impact on the quality of soil and the way the soil is working for me under that rhizophagy cycle. It's also meant our fungi bacteria ratios remains far more in tune with what we're trying to grow rather than weeds. And that's been another revelation in terms of trying to grow crops without so much herbicide or any herbicide is where we are now. And then I think the next slide is something we're very proud of. We grew the very first, as I believe, genuine carbon sequestrated crop of potatoes. One of the hardest crops to grow because of what normally happens to soar. The cost of production per tonne is minute compared to the conventional way. And more importantly, in terms of environmental benefits, is it had a huge effect of preventing phosphate. And without, I haven't got the time to go into explaining the methods in which it doesn't move because of polyhalide. But essentially it stopped phosphate entering into our river, which is huge. And also the movement of potassium. The potassium is held, which is really quite an exciting thing because often in soils liable to leach, you'll often see a lot of potassium leaching through the soil. So that was, again, less wastage for me as a farmer. If you're wasting less than you're more efficient. If you're more efficient, you're making money. It's as simple as that. So it's very exciting for what we're doing on these potato crops. And then I think the final slide is just showing the difference between using regenerative practices of our farm on the left hand side, entering this water water course and the conventional farms upstream and the difference we can have in I'm making more profit. I'm doing it. I'm doing so much better for myself by farm in the future and protecting the soil. So I have something to give to my children and potentially grandchildren in years to come. So what I'm saying is profitability and farming don't have to be mutually exclusive. We can do both. We can be very environmental focused, but also be very profitable. So, yeah, it's pretty exciting. And yeah, essentially, that's me because I've gone over by five minutes. And thank you very much. But this is our shed showing where we were farming under my father in the centre. And where we've aspired to change and move our farm into what is a sustainable future. And yeah, thank you very much for listening to me. Thank you, Ben. It's always great to hear kind of the full circle of the story and how these products, these tools, they can make a difference on the field, in the farm and in a farmer's life. We do have a couple of questions. So one question that we had is if biomakers always needs a sample soil in a control zone to understand the impact of product treatment. And can we just sample the treated soil to understand the impact? So one of the things that is important to realize is that the soil is going to change throughout the season. And so in order for us to really understand what a product does, we need to kind of separate the normal processes, the normal changes in a soil from that. So that's why we need to have kind of that control so that we're able to say this is how, you know, this is how the environment has changed and how that sort of the environment has changed the microbiome of that soil versus the microbiome of the product itself. So we do need that control sample. Another question is about it being an outside trial but not a field trial. And Catherine, my understanding is that while it was outside, it was trying as much as possible to mimic field conditions. Is that correct? Yeah, that's right. But of course, it is ultimately a pot experiment and not a field trials experiment. And here we were really trying to hone in on some of the mechanisms that we see between these interactions between poly4 and soil health more generally. In order to do that, we need a certain level of experimental control because as soon as we take anything to field trial scale, as I'm sure many of you on the call will be aware of, then the variability starts to get very large indeed. And so if we want to look at very fine mechanisms, we generally start small or we do various approaches to this. So obviously this is a small scale trial looking at the mechanism between microbial change and what we can measure in terms of plant change. And then when we do larger scale field trialing like Ben was describing, then we would take a different experimental approach, which is appropriate to a question that we're asking in the first place, but also to the scale of the experiment. So, so Catherine, another question for you is what were the other products that you use to compare the poly4 with? So I can't name the other products or I would prefer not to name the other products because I don't want to be seen as being as saying one product is better than another product. In this case, we just chose comparator potassium based fertilizer products. So, and the original slide at the beginning, I showed the proportionality of the different, of the different fertilizers. But I'm afraid I wouldn't share the brand name in this. Right. But are these like synthetic chemical fertilizers or? These are the market available fertilizers. Okay. Okay. Yeah. So, one question, how does this work on polyhalide compare to other research of biomakers? And the question is kind of along the lines of, is this kind of what we would expect? So, that's a really good question. And with biomakers, we have kind of the, a wide range of research projects that we're doing. So, it's, it's anywhere from a trial like this, where we're looking at, you know, poly4 product to really kind of look at where we work with producers of biostimulants or products that they say, this is a biological product. And we want to see how it impacts the biology. All the way to where there are, are groups that are saying, I really want to see what my chemistry does. How does my chemistry impact the biology so that I can understand that and maybe change some of the, and so, I guess what I'm trying to say is, is our agenda is to look at the biology. And so, whatever it is that you're doing, let's look at the biology, whether it's, you know, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm selling, you know, fumigants, it's the same. Let's look at the biology. Look and see what, what's happening with the biology when you do this. And so, we're not really, we're not really looking at them and saying, this is what you should be doing. We're looking at them and saying, you should be looking at the biology and maximizing that soil health. Looking at, at just, just exactly what, what, you know, poly4, this, this product was, is saying, we want to look and see what this product is doing to the biology of the soil and how it's impacting that. And to make sure that it's, that when we say that it's a sustainable product, we're taking into account the biology. And then this one. So, so this one is, is the question is what's the next step to use biomakers technology, but I'm, I'm going to, I'm going to maybe divide it into three. So we'll say, what's the next step for, you know, in biomakers and doing this kind of stuff, but then we'll ask the same to, to Catherine and Ben, what, what is the next step for you in this, in this journey? And so for us, one thing that we're starting to do is, especially for biological products, not necessarily for like this, this poly4 product, but for biological products, we know that they, they don't always work everywhere. And that's because the biology of each soil is very different. And so one of the things that we're, we're starting to get to is if we do trials like this, and we start to understand how it interacts with the biology, then we can actually predict how it's going to work in a field. And so what we, what we want to do is, is, and, and we're, we're pretty much there where we can have a farmer go out, collect the samples and send them to us. And then we would be able to look at the biology of their field and say, okay, these are the products that would actually work and that would actually make a difference in your field. So you don't have to say, well, you know, you know, just, just kind of shoot from the hip and say, we're going to try everything and see what works the best. We would actually be able to, to, to guide that a little bit. So, Catherine, to you, what, what is kind of your next step in kind of the, the poly4 journey? Well, I'll, I'll stick in the arena of soil biology and soil health, just to keep it in my remit. I think one of the things that maybe I didn't make really clear in the original presentation is that what makes this study exciting for me is that not only were we using the B crop technology as a mechanism to look at the genetic elements of the microbiome and how they are leading to functionality, which is within your algorithm. It was also about marrying the algorithm to the actual plant output, which is over and above what you would normally do in, in your trial works, I believe. So for me, the excitement here was that we were able to link across both of those things. And so the next steps for me really, when thinking about this experiment is that we know that over time, we see changes in the microbial composition in soils. That's not just linked to seasonality, but when we make a treatment or a change as Ben has been talking about in relation to how we manage the land, then that process takes sometimes years to really translate into a system that is operating at a, at a plateau point, if you like. And so the next steps for me is that the next steps for me is that the next steps for me is really about understanding what is this result. This result is fantastic for me in the short term, but what does that mean for the longer term soil health story? And also, can we scale that? Can I trial, you know, a wider base experiment, which is less worrying about whether or not your algorithm matches a functional output on a plant, but more about what is actually happening at field scale across a country or across a region? And then, then we can make some true cross comparisons, if you like, between this quite mechanistic study and actually going on in these systems for sustainable agriculture long term. Yeah. Yeah. Great. So, so Ben, I'm going to, I'm going to, we're going to end with, with you and then one other question that I'm hoping you can tie into this that came in. So for you, what are kind of the next steps on this, this soil health journey? And then also one question is if, if you are farming regenerative, someone wants to know, do you need fertilizer at all? So if you can kind of do those two questions together and then any questions that we did not get to, we will make sure that we, we send out and we respond via email. Yeah. So on this whole regenerative journey, in an ideal world, we don't use any, any inputs at all and all skip very merrily off into the distance and we're all millionaires. Sadly, the reality of farming is, is often nothing like what we, what we dream. Generally, we read a book and become a net for tomorrow and wonder why everything doesn't just fall into place. One, one, one, one, one, one thing we're moving massively into at the moment is quorum sensing is, is the reason why a lot of these biologicals that people purchase aren't working is because it's, it's a sheer quantity and interaction thing, which is why we, we, we, we've been there, Dental, or I say we, I have tried so much of this on, on farm. And that's where we've now fallen into the compost tea, more compost extract, if I'm honest, take the processes out of the complexity and where we're starting to use compost extracts. It's more about whether we use 50 liters a hectare, 100 liters, 300, where do we get to the level where we get quorum sensing to do everything we expected to do more often than it does not, if you see what I mean. So that, that, that, that, that's the biggest thing for us. And, and therefore with, with the whole poly four story is, does that have any interference in that quorum sensing at all? I suspect not because at the end of the day, it's essentially just rock, which is fantastic, which means it's, it's, it's, it's not being processed. It hasn't been synthesized. It's not covered in microplastics and anything that can cause all of these problems in soil. And therefore I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm rather optimistic of that sort of thing. Do, do, do, do we need fertiliser from a regenerative farmer? The answer sadly is yes. I say sadly, it's, it's just part of the input process, but I think the right targeted fertiliser, and, and it's something I didn't touch on that much, but believe it or not, the use of poly four means I have more nitrogen available to my crop. Poly four doesn't contain nitrogen, but it doesn't kill the things that, that make nitrogen in my soil. Do you see what I mean? So we can become so much more efficient by using the correct natural fertilisers than, than actually just assuming one plus one equals two, often not the case in, in, in soil and soil health and soil building. So, so for us, it's, it's, it's very much stick on the journey, find out what works and, and, and, and just keep on with that. Great. Thank you so much. And on, on behalf of biomakers, Anglo American and, and Ben's farm, we want to thank all of those who listened in your questions. If you do have any followup questions that you were not able to ask, please go ahead and send an email into us. We will answer all the questions that we can. Um, meanwhile, let's pay attention to soil biology and soil health. And thank you very much. Thank you very much.