Milking Cows On A Small Family Owned and Operated Dairy Farm!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wpGia7uC_I0
People & Blogs
 Hello everyone and welcome to Garrock Farms. Today I'm going to bring you along with for morning milking. It is a very cold morning. As we're filming this here we're sitting at about one two degrees. So we're going to be milking taking care of after milking chores like getting the barn prepped and ready to go and we also have to haul silage today. We have a bull calf that's got to go to town so it's going to be a busy day on the farm and I'm going to bring you guys along with. Thank you all for watching. Remember share, subscribe, like the video, comment. We're going to get into the video, get the milk house prepped and start milking here soon. All right. See you next time! use it withざную a commenting , a piece of art colored slowly using theenasqu для продукты All right. All right. Milking is underway. Dad is prepping the next eight cows. Being there's the two of us, we're going to milk with eight units today. Normally we'll milk with six. I also want to let you guys know that we are filming here in the middle of February, so things are a little different compared to normal, especially with the temperature outside. And how's the herd doing, Dad? Well, things are going pretty good. The production drop's just a little bit, I think. And I don't know, maybe because we haven't had a lot of fresh cows right recently. I mean, milk quality is excellent. You see a little manure on some of the cow's flanks and stuff. Don't let that fool you. I think we got like 14 milk quality awards. 13 or 14 already? Yeah, your somatic cell is normally what this time of year? It's pretty low yet. It's usually always in the double digits. And once in a while, it'll get into the... Because usually anything under a 250 is considered good, and we're pretty low. And then once you approach 400, that gets kind of where they... You better start looking for where that's all coming from. But a little of that. And then, of course, bacteria, they check once a month. That's all pretty good. So, yeah, and they're taking a sample every time they pick a load up. So that's how in the dairy industry we, you know, prevent the sap. That's how they pay you. So they pay you by weight, and they pay you by samples. You can get a quality premium, which ain't a lot, but it still adds up. Protein's another one. Protein butterfat is huge right now compared to what it used to be, components. Which can make more cheese out of it or more whatever out of it. So that's where it's leaning. It's not so much having a lot of milk. But, yeah, we're really focused on all that. But right now the chores is, because it's cold, there's just a lot of steps to take. A lot of tending and preventing freeze-ups and just checking things all the time. Cleaning and feeding, that's probably the biggest thing. It's just, it's kind of endless, which is good because you prevent problems that way. You know, you prevent, if something would be calving, I mean, it's more critical to address it now real fast or soon than, like, in the summer when it's warm out, you know, things are more forgiving and all that. So, yeah, we just put another cow in a maternity pen. So I got some stuff coming up again. Made the pen a little bigger because we're feeding the hay out. So that's all good. Yeah. Just keep adjusting things and watch our animals. Yeah. Right here. This one here is keeping the cats in line. It's her second day in the barn. She hasn't crossed the gutter. I'm concerned that she'd get stepped on by some cows because she just doesn't know better yet. But she's been pretty good. We gave her a little bit of straw on the end there. And she seems to know her area that she's, you know, supposed to stay in. All right. So we're going to continue on milking and bring you guys along with us. So let's get back to work. We're going to get the pot. We're going to get the pot. We're going to get the pot. We're going to get the pot. You looking for some attention? I don't want to harass you guys. Alright, we have finished milking all of the 45 dairy cows. I just got the pipeline and the milk house all cleaned up and prepped, sterilized, and ready to go for this evening's milking. Shortly here, we'll be letting the dairy cows out for recess. Right now, Dad, he is loading up that bull calf to take to town. We'll go help him with that. Alright, we're back home. We had a nice little trip off the farm. With it so cold like this, I don't know if you guys noticed, but we had two jackets on that calf. And it was a pretty short trip. And then having the side racks on the truck kind of keeps the calf out of the wind as well. Stayed pretty warm making his way over there. And it sounds like the transport truck to the bigger stockyard, he made it sound like that's insulated pretty good for this time of year. So now we're going to go back to working on chores and get these cows out of here and clean the barn up. So now we're going to go back to work on chores and get these cows out of here and get these cows out of here. Alright, we got the barn all cleaned up. We got it lined up, bedded up. Now we're going to transition over to the feed portion of the day. Owen, he's backing out the 7405 right now with the dump trailer. We do have a little bit of cleanup from the manger here to throw into the bullpen before we head down to load the feed. I'm going to keep him down to load the feed. You just need to take these cows out by stuff. We got out of the cuts in the first way without theüt. So more importantly, we're going to try and pull out the car as a truck with the shepherd rows and are getting specific for thisсте. You should revert and will just open up and keep the manager today so you can see them going well. It's aelope or something about the trail here. Erin, the wheel is almost 100%. There went a little bit of it, trying to move it over. Look, is the Wife. Alright, now it's time to go get the feed. So, let's go get the feed. Okay, the first load of silage is up here and all the heifers are looking real happy. And now we're going down there again to get a load for the dairy cows. Alright, we got the second load up here. We're going to get the wheelbarrows working here and get a bunch of feed laid out in the mangers here in the dairy barn. About on the last step here, having the barn ready for the dairy herd to come in. So, let's go get the feed. We're going to get the feed. We're going to get the feed. We're going to get the feed. We're going to get the feed. We're going to get the feed. We're going to get the feed. Alright, all the cows are in the barn. They're really eager to come in and munch on some of that freshly laid out silage. Especially on a cold day like today. It doesn't take a whole lot of convincing to get those girls to want to come in. That's great. It's good to have all the chores done. But I'm going to end off the video here. Thank you all for making it to the end. I really appreciate it. Without you guys watching, especially those of you that watched the whole video, I wouldn't be putting them out as often as I do. So, thanks for allowing me and my family to do this. Make sure to leave plenty of comments down below. Share the video with your friends. Hit that like button. That's all free and it helps us out a lot. And also, check out GerochFarms.com. Thanks for being part of the journey and we will see you all next time.