Tour a Vermont Goat Farm: Ayers Brook Goat Dairy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WSetIP3mcaY
Howto & Style
 This is Ayersbrook Goat Dairy. I'm Myles Hooper, owner and manager with my mother and wife. At Ayersbrook we're focused on rapid genetic improvement and pinpointing productive, healthy, resilient bloodlines and then marketing sires from those bloodlines that will in turn be the father and grandfather on other farms. This is also the home of Vermont Chabon where we take dairy culls and bucklings from around the state of Vermont and market them down country to white tablecloth restaurants. And we're really trying to make Chabon much more a part of Western cuisine. Chabon is goat meat. Chabon is goat meat indeed. Yes, that's another word we've stolen from the French. So, you know, you don't call pork pig meat and you don't call beef cow meat. So why do we call it goat meat? Let's just call it Chabon. Can you show me around the farm? Sure. Yeah. So here we get the milk house. Inside this room is the milk tanks and the truck pulls up here to the front door and pumps the milk and takes it to Vermont Creamery to be made into aged cheeses and also Fat Toad Farm to be made into caramel. In the rest of this red barn here is where all the milking animals reside. Right now we're in breeding season. The goats natural intuition is to breed in the fall and then gestate all winter and have their baby in the spring. Very much the way that deer do. Deer and goats are first cousins. So this is where the milking animals are. Every goat in this barn is milked twice a day. The other barns here are for young stock. We've got our nucleus herd in the white barn, which we do all of our genetic work from. And then the greenhouse canvas top structure over here is where all the youngest females are. We produce all of our own hay at this point and we also grow winter rye, which is a cereal grain that gets combined. And we sell the seed and then we use all the straw, which is the other half of that crop, as bedding to make sure that the goats always have deep straw bedding and stay very clean all the time and comfortable. We're going to go check out the year wings over in, we call this the old barn. This was the original structure that was here on this farm when we bought this farm in 2012. And is where the herd of 70 Jersey cows was milked. Kate, good to meet you. Yeah, we'll go right in. This barn is our nucleus herd. These guys are all Sonnen's or close to Sonnen's. There are some other crossbreeds in here as well. But basically the sires that we sell are all products of Sonnen dams. Sonnen is a breed of goat. Yes. Okay. Yeah. And they're one of the most prolific in Europe. In my opinion, there's the most amount of genetic work done with this breed. Genetic selection is what I mean. We're selecting the goats for consistency and type. So size and body condition, the way that they synthesize feed. And we just want a level of consistency in the animal's type. The word that we use is type. When you look at the animals on a merit basis and stack them on their dollar merit basis, we look at pounds of milk in a lactation times percentage of protein. Gives you pounds of protein in a lactation, which indicates what their conversion factor from feed to cheese is. Because the majority of the milk goes for cheese and that's the basis in which we're paid. How many goats do you have here? We get about 800 right at the moment. And we go, we fluctuate throughout the year between about 600 and 1100. How many times a day do they need to be milked? So the does, the mamas, are milked twice a day. 6am, 5pm. You can't miss a milking? Never. Never have, never will. What happens if you miss? We don't know. You would never have. We're not going to find out either. You'll hear that about dairy farms. You can't miss a milking. Yeah, there's no missing milking. Yeah. We're going into the kid barn. Hey guys. Everybody hanging out? Tell me about the goats. It seems like the goats really like you. They do. They're all touching. Give me a good way. Yeah, well they certainly think I have something for them. No, these are our babies. They know that we come in here and take care of them many times a day. And that, you know, their needs come first. You know, we like, you know, we don't eat breakfast until the goats have eaten breakfast. What time does your day start? Usually like 5.30. 5, 5.30. A seven day a week job? Yeah, for me it is, yeah. So right now, early October, we're starting to think about getting everything tightened up for winter time. We've had some cold nights so far. So the main thing with that is we don't heat any of the buildings, but we just want to keep the wind and a draft out of the building. So maintaining a tight envelope is the most important thing. We're not as concerned about the temperature. There are benefits to the cold being that when it's cold, it's, you know, the air is cleaner than when it's warm and moist. So, in 2014, we decided to put a solar array on this barn. It had the perfect pitch and orientation for a fixed mount array. And at that time, the incentives, the pay price for net metering, which is to sell power back into the grid, was very advantageous. The second array we did, which was last year, on the other barns, the pay price is scheduled down, but still is a worthwhile endeavor. And so all of the power on this farm is generated by the solar, and the surplus gets marketed to other businesses like Vermont Creamery. You could say, except for internet, you're an off-the-grid farm? No. It's all on the grid. Our power still comes in on that single phase service over there. Okay. All of the power we produce gets sent out on the three phase service here. That's a dedicated service just for sending power to the grid. So it's all credit based. Do you make more power than you use? Yes. So you're actually making money by selling electricity. Right. So that's offsetting your cost. It's another revenue stream for the farm. They're not cutting, they're not slashing and burning Amazon rainforest to make more goat paddock. Right? We believe that goats are a remedy for the very carbon intensive ways we produce food for the world. Goats are extremely efficient in their ability to convert all types of feed into meat and milk and weather. Okay? The... Just think about this for a second. We're getting a goat to milk in a year. Which means that they're essentially at maturity. Okay? Um... That animal is generating a return for us in 12 months, 12 to 15 months. Whereas in a cattle operation, you're breeding typical cow at 15, 16 months. And then they're not generating a return for you until 23, 24 months. So you have an additional year of messing around of inputs, labor, feed, housing, bedding, just general management of that animal before they generate a return for you. So the goats are generating a return a year earlier than your typical beef animal. Furthermore, when they calve, they always produce twins. So you get two for the price of one. Whereas with beef, you get, you know, most commonly singles. And the issue is, is that in a beef operation, they're maintaining a brood herd. A critical mass of cows that produce calves for them annually. And the calves, the heifers go to replace some of the cows. The steers are, the bulls are all steered. And they go right to slaughter. But nonetheless, it takes one cow to produce one beef animal. Whereas it takes one goat to produce two goats. So it's just an incredibly efficient process. And I think as we continue to improve the genetics through really meticulous data collection and record keeping, and making our decisions based on that data, that we will be, and this will be a much more efficient and profitable endeavor than anything dealing with beef. In addition to producing milk for Vermont Creamery, we also produce goat meat that we sell under a brand called Vermont Chabon. This is Kate Branstetter, who is one of the managing members of Vermont Chabon. And the feedback that we get when we get this product in front of folks, is that they're eager to find more.