The Benefits of Precision Agriculture
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wt7j-1VqnXE
Education
 Hello, we are Jack Hoyler. Zach Edson. We're going to get Olivia's voice, but probably not her video. OK. Pardon, we have someone joining us from video. Hello. Today we'll be presenting to you the benefits of precision agriculture and what we learned during AgroTech 2023. Our project focus is using technology for more precise agriculture. We experimented with coding, augmented and virtual reality to figure out how it could be used to support farmers. Throughout the program, we learned about virtual reality and its uses, as well as other tools to help us study the way games work and learn how to create virtual landscapes to show the effects of precision Ag. We visited the Hort farm to see the effects of precision Ag in person and to see how science is used for its benefit. precision agriculture or smart farming uses modern technology and data to improve farming efficiency, increase yields, minimize waste, reduce environmental impact and enable informed decisions for farmers. It involves tools like sensors and drones to gather detailed information about fields and animals, helping farmers make precise choices about planting resource usage and harvesting. This approach promotes sustainable agriculture and better food production for a growing population. Alright, well, we did have videos, but it looks like they're not working. That's OK. We wanted to bring attention to the varied approaches to precision agriculture through comparing two different approaches. One is our variable fertilizer approach, which was a very important approach to the precision agriculture. one is our variable fertilizer approach, which was the top one where we change the fertilizer flow rate in response to different crops and soil compositions. And this would save farmers money because they're using less fertilizer. And it also helps the environment because there's less fertilizer runoff, like what we saw with the floods. However, this is a more expensive option because the farmer would need the technology to change the flow rate. They'd need to take samples of their crops and soil, and they would also need the time to learn how to use all of these options appropriately. However, there is a simpler option that we devised, which was a variable speed example, which was the bottom picture there. And through this, we would change the speed of, for example, a tractor to change the rate of planting or fertilization. And this is much more accessible to people with less time, money, and resources because you're simply pressing the gas button or the gas pedal or the brake to change the speed of your planting or fertilization. And when we compare this to the traditional farming approach of one size fits all or not necessarily counting for the differences in our land and our crops. We hope that farmers of all ages see that precision agriculture doesn't have to be scary or break their farming values of their families and they can take advantage of its resources and benefits. So there are seven main steps in farming. You prepare the land and plant. And then during the growing season, you water, weed, fertilize, and fight with pests and plant diseases. And then finally, you get to harvest your crop. And all of these can be bettered with precision agriculture. For example, during land preparation, a land prep robot could be used in order to remove debris, rocks, and existing vegetation. This would be very helpful. For example, during the flood, a lot of trash has been washed up on our farm fields. Such robot made by directed machines could be very helpful in removing all the junk. It can tow up to 6,000 pounds while only weighing in at 1,600, which is even more impressive when you take into consideration that you have that a Toyota RAV4 can only tow about 1,600. So the land is prepared and you're ready to plant. Precision tools are much more exact than conventional ones. So you'll be able to. So precision tools are much more exact than conventional ones. So germination rates will be better since plant since depth and crop with planting would be much at a pinpoint accuracy. Advancements are used in traditional farming as well, such as drip lines and automated systems and sensors. But other advancements aren't. For example, variable drip irrigation. This allows for watering areas with not enough moisture while avoiding others with enough. Most of us know riparian buffers as flood stopping plants planted along rivers or lakes. This helps reduce flood impact and sediment deposition. It can help. This would be very helpful during the Vermont flood to reduce sediment and soil contamination. It's very important to have nutrients, water and sun for all of your crops. This can be done with machines such as the verdant robot, which scans your fields and figures out whether it's a weed or a crop. This allows it to spray each individual plant at a pinpoint accuracy with either herbicide or fertilizer. Moving on from the land to the air. Did you know that there's a way that allows farmers to control pests in a much greener way? It's called biological pest control. You're instead of using harmful pesticides, you seed your crops with beneficial insects such as race wings, predatory mites and parasoid wasps. The pair of bug drone scans your fields and only drops the bugs on infected areas of the field. So we saw examples in planting and land preparation and now to harvesting. Harvesting is all about precision. The OrganiFarms robot created in Germany in 2020 autonomously harvest strawberries. It uses its camera to scan each berry and harvest only the fully red ones. This is not only improving shelf life, but also eliminates the risk of accidental damage since no human has ever touched the crop. Isn't it amazing how to see how technology is revolutionizing the way we farm by using data driven decision making? That this is the work we did today. So thank you. Any questions? Any questions? We have maybe a comment or one question from the judges panel perhaps? Let me bring you the mic. One curiosity just in listening to your presentation is what are some of the challenges that you foresee for farmers? I imagine there's a cost, but any additional challenges that you foresee for farmers that may want to adopt some of these technologies? Well, just talking about costs, you could use maybe a communal system, maybe owned by UVM, where farmers could have different membership levels in order to rent out the machinery. It could be serviced by UVM, so that could be a potential cost. Because cost definitely would be a problem because most of them cost even even more than a quarter million. Also, I'd like to add that like time is a big factor as well because we know like farmers are always busy get up at daybreak, go to bed when the sun falls. But you know learning how to use all these machines and setting them up takes a ton of time. And when you're already investing all that money to lose more money because you're not necessarily out on your fields is a big distraction from what we're trying to get them to use. Thank you guys. That was fabulous. Another round of applause. Thank you.