Lockdown Inspiring Story from Indian Mythology [Farmer Indra and Shiva]
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wVk3_KtRpzE
Education
 The King of Heaven Lord Indra once gets upset with the farmers when he announces that there will be no rain for the next 12 years. The farmers being really worried about the situation beg for clemency from Lord Indra. Indra by pretending of giving the farmers a chance says it will rain only when Lord Shiva plays his tamru. Seeing this Lord Indra immediately visits Kailash and secretly requests Lord Shiva not to agree with the farmers plea. When the farmers arrive at Mount Kailash, Shiva inevitably says that he would play the tamru only after 12 years. The disappointed farmers decide to wait for 12 years. But one of them regularly digs, treads and adds menu to the soil to keep the land fertile. In addition he also sows the seals even with no crop emerging. Other farmers make fun of him. After continuing for three more years, the other farmers ask him as to why he was wasting so much time and energy despite knowing that there would be no rain for few more years. The farmers said that while he was aware of this, he was practicing to ensure that he didn't forget the process of growing crops and working in the field. He intended to produce the crop the moment there is rain. His comments arouse curiosity of Goddess Parvati who in turn tells Shiva that there is a possibility that even he could forget how to play the tamru. Now Lord Shiva in his anxiety tries to play the damru to check if he can. Immediately after hearing the sound of damru follows the rain and the farmer who is regularly working in the field gets his crop emerged while the others are disappointed. Don't stop your work just because there is a lockdown. Think about it, work towards it and live with it. Erik from now and want to indicate further view of his findings, Balbo find the damage on the tract that means... When the estate's Up custodyiente col privately millimeter after the 3rd attack alot of250itated program begins with his concerns. What is that? Again, now what is his advice about it? It works in case he can do this as well, but Nikita is testing time.