Farmer Field School Refresher Training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wwS8otySCO8
News & Politics
 Extension officers from across the Caribbean region have gathered for a week-long comprehensive farmer field school facilitator training organized by the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries, Food Security, and Rural Development in collaboration with the ACP MEAs 3 project. The training aims to enhance their facilitation skills and provide them with updated knowledge and tools for delivering effective farmer field school extension programs. Throughout the training, Extension officers will explore various topics related to the farmer field school implementation, including the purpose and potential impact of farmer field schools, strategies for planning and community engagement, and familiarization with the recently updated Farmer Field School Manual. The objective, as stated by the ACP MEAs 3 regional project coordinator, Therese Yad, is to enable Extension officers to better engage with farmers, share information, and provide guidance on the responsible use of pesticides. The FAO has supported the update of St. Lucia's Farmer Field School Manual, which dated back to, I believe, 2006. Mr. Lexis, so you now have a new Farmer Field School Manual, which we're in the process of developing to publish as an official FAO publication. So we're very pleased about that. And as well, following on from this training, we will be supporting the Extension Services Unit in the delivery of farmer field schools focused on reducing the use of highly hazardous pesticides. So before the end of the year, hopefully some of you who participate in this training today will actually be involved in the delivery of farmer field schools in your respective regions. Chief Extension Officer Eloy Alexis expressed enthusiasm about the acquired skills and resources. He emphasizes the importance of the training in enhancing the ability of the Extension officers to deliver impactful farmer field school programs and support farmers in adopting sustainable agricultural practices. This movement has spread globally as an effective teaching methodology. The concept embraces the preservation of agroecological system to guarantee sustainability of production. As sectoral leaders, we must be equipped with the requisite knowledge which will help cushion the myriads of challenges faced by our farming sector, which has the potential to weaken our food security status, aggravate onset of non-communicable diseases, and the destruction of the environment. The collaborative effort of the Ministry of Agriculture and the ACP MEA's three project in organizing the farmer field school facilitator training highlights their commitment to promoting sustainable agriculture and food security in the Caribbean. With improved facilitation skills and the updated manual, Extension officers will be equipped to lead farmer field schools, empower farmers, and contribute to the agricultural sector's development. From the Communications Unit of the Ministry of Agriculture, I am Anissia Antoine reporting. architect rumah fala