Why we're shutting down our homestead.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WX0kk3i1YhY
People & Blogs
 We've worked hard for over a year to build our dream homestead, a model of self-sufficiency and resilient food production. Eggs, meat, fruits and vegetables, all raised by our own hands, on our own land. Now we're shutting it all down. Local food has always been a passion of ours. Whether it was signing up for CSAs or hanging out at the seasonal farmers markets, we knew that the best food came from as close to home as absolutely possible. And over the last year, we've taken this love of local food one step further. We've invested heavily in establishing our own extremely productive homestead on less than one acre in the Pacific Northwest. And although we grew up as just a couple of clean-cut kids from the suburbs, we really jumped in head first. It all started with just a few chicks, picked up from a farmer friend down the street. These chickens proved to be the metaphorical gateway drug, quickly growing into a flock of 14. Now to house our ever-growing flock, we built a clean and minimalist chicken coop using reclaimed and recycled materials. People on YouTube really liked this coop. And so did the chickens. Clearly not satisfied with the amount of birds we had, and eager to get our fill of delicious eggs, a dozen quail were quickly added, with a suitable structure to match. And as is usually the case with these things, Serendipity introduced two young bunnies into our homestead. Having been posted for weeks on the local classified ads, another family had had too many bunnies to care for, and were struggling to even give these little ones away. Don't tell the vegans, but this became the catalyst to our constantly expanding meat rabbit colony. One side effect of raising rabbits for food was the near constant presence of adorable baby bunnies. Aww, so cute! Before I started homesteading, I never realized that despite being the same species, egg-laying chickens and chickens you eat for meat are actually entirely different breeds. Well, that's a thing! And thus, 25 meat birds entered our home via express airmail. And like all animals, they needed a suitable home, resulting in our lovely A-frame build. That was a lot of birds at once. Thankfully, they've since all entered the great freezer in the sky. Now I just want to pause for a minute. I hate to give off the impression that we're a bunch of meat-loving carnivores here, so I feel obliged to point out the bounty of fruits and vegetables harvested from our garden and our community. thoughtfully preserved for the leaner months of the years, the colors and flavors nourish our bodies and souls through the fall and winter. I mean, just look at those pantry shelves. Don't they bring a smile to your face? What an amazing undertaking this has been. And my family and I? Well, there's a few things we've learned from this whole experience. First of all, growing food is hard. Investment in materials and feed quickly adds up. And the man hours required to stay on top of it all is absolutely phenomenal. It's so yucky. And it needs to be changed like every day, twice a day if it's too cold. The upside of this is that every morsel of food that made it to our plates was full of the satisfaction and knowledge of all our hard work that went into it. It's incredibly hard to let food go to waste when you can appreciate how much of your hard earned time and money went into producing it. Death is real. Death in Western cultures is always lurking behind the shadows. Something that is there but never talked about. Nothing, and I mean nothing, brings death to the forefront of your mind than having to put a baby chick with a crooked beak and failing to thrive out of its misery. And when it comes to harvest time, well, it takes a deep understanding of the cycle of life and death and a strong sense of gratitude to make the decision to take another animal's life to feed your own. I just want to say I am not pro or anti meat consumption. But I think it's incredibly important for anyone that chooses to eat meat to come face to face with the animal that will become food. Out of sight and out of mind can lead to so many atrocities in this world. But knowing that my animals were raised with a level of care and respect, not counting one bad day, helps me come to terms with that aspect of my omnivorous life. Life becomes life. If anything, that daily reminder of life and death has really been a catalyst for us to be making such a big change. I mean, suppose we were to leave this world tomorrow or next week. Is this how we would spend our remaining days? Don't get me wrong. Homesteading has been a blast. Seriously. But 50 plus more years of the same thing in this same place? That's just not it for me right now. More than anything else, leaving our property for more than a day has proven extremely challenging. We love to be spontaneous, going on weekend trips and overnight camping adventures on a whim. But organizing house sitters and ensuring everything is safe and secure while we're away, it's a burden that ultimately results in us just never leaving. It's not that we're sick of homesteading or resentful of the animals. Absolutely not. But we're also not ready to be tied down yet either. There's a whole world of experiences out there for both ourselves and our children. Growing up on a small rural island, it has its perks. It's a strong sense of community, an overall general feeling of safety, and overwhelming beauty. But it's also limiting when the cost and time associated with getting off island means, well, we just rarely venture beyond these shores. We're craving new experiences and new opportunities, and the time to do it is now. While our health is still good, and while the kids still want to hang out with us. Because we all know that might not be the case forever. We're setting off to explore the idea of living somewhere new, somewhere different, and somewhere that will challenge us in new and interesting ways. We don't know where that is, but we're ready to find out. So we listed our house up for rent yesterday. It's been a bit of a whirlwind. We have three families coming today to check it out. Yeah, anxieties are high. And I think because it is such a big thing for us, like a big change that we're going through, I think tensions are just a little bit higher than normal. That's okay, we're going to work through it. I feel confident. I hope we find someone that would love and care for this beautiful house and enjoy their time here while we go somewhere else. Once we make up our minds, we tend to move pretty quickly. Before the week is up, we've already signed the rental agreement and received the deposit. We found a great new family who will live in this house and enjoy the property with their young children while we set off in search of something else. We're not really sure what's going to happen next, but wherever we end up, it won't be here. We've got 12 months ahead of us to fill with big adventures, bold new projects, and exciting new experiences for our family. But before we can leave, what are we going to do with all these animals? What about all this nasty animal ch- manure? Tune in next week to find out.