Potato Planting: Massive Fields Powerful Machinery! John Deere tractors! Lockwood Planters!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x-Z60FnFE04
People & Blogs
 so what we have here are the shanks we just took off so these are the they're the wide shovels for the chisel plow we took these wide ones off and we're putting on some narrow shovels that have wings on them so these are what we use when we work up the spud ground it helps loosen all the soil down where the seed potato is going to go so we are in the process of switching all the shanks over to the different shovels that work the ground up a little bit better so same way you take them off we did that video and now we're swapping them out putting these new ones on getting ready to do all of our spuds the lempkin sure makes it easy you just have one little pin that holds the shank on holds the the shovel on now we're hooking up one of our spud planters we got to hook it up do a few things to get the pumps and stuff ready and then we'll be ready to plant we'll probably start planting in a couple days i think we're going to get everything set up on friday we got one planter all hooked up and ready to go the other tractor we still have to put the duels on and everything so it's going to take a little longer now we are putting the duels on our 8330 that's the tractor that will run the dammer duiker so we got to get that ready for spuds and then that tractor will be ready to go lots of stuff to get ready and then that's alright a little bit better and I didn't get ready for all of my stuff so we get ready for the duels on target my heart isn't that going to happen and I like a lot of stuff I really love this nem accommodating where what I liked and I'm about to do when the ping or 시 l х and I get into cleaning for like, I don't even wanna spend security because we CI grinds so we got to the top and we're gonna learn and keep cycling so we have to look Well, we got the other planter all hooked up. Now we just have to wait until we have a good day to calibrate them. So we are taking the sides off of our dump truck here. This dump truck will become the fertilizer truck that we will use to fill the fertilizer tanks on the planters, the spud planters. Just pulled this side off. We just hook chains to it and lift it off. We just have to unbolt the front is all. Now we'll go unhook it and then go get the tank put on this truck. All right, so this is the big tank. What we did is we tipped the dump back and then we slid the tank on. And then as we put the dump down, it just was easy to slide on. Now we've got the tank strapped down. We have our pump here to pump the fertilizer. We have our hoses. And that will plug in to the planters right here. Which then fills that tank that they have on the planter. So we're loading trucks now for planting seed potatoes. One truck's getting loaded. We have the piler here. And if we come over here, we have the scooper. So this is on the other end of the pile from where all the cutting stuff is. Has this little expandable that hooks to the piler so the scooper can move around without having to bind and move everything. But he drives into the pile. And it scoops up the potatoes. And they go up onto the piler which goes into the truck. We just barely started. So we have a lot of potatoes to plant. But this is how we scoop them out of the cellar. So we are out here now loading planters. And we're going to start planting potatoes. This is how we load them. We have our big loader here. And we just unload one of our 10-wheeler trucks into the bucket. Powered by a generator that's on a pickup. Once that's full, he'll back up and go dump it into his planter. Over there we have our fertilizer truck to fill them up. Right now they're both full. But he'll come over here. It takes quite a few scoops to fill them up. And then you just dump some in. And we'll fill them up until they're almost running out. We don't want to spill too much on the ground. Because, well, each potato could produce 10 more potatoes. So every potato seed that we drop on the ground is 10 potatoes that don't get grown. Now the fertilizer, we're not filling them up right now. But when they do, they will plug into this line here. And that just goes up and fills that tank up. Which then comes out of the bottom. And runs over to this, which is our John Blue pump. This is how we pump the fertilizer on. So it's ground driven. With that chain that goes to this depth wheel. And each one of these lines goes to, there's two of them that go to each row. So down here, it goes down and hooks to these little pipes. And that's right where the seed comes out. So when the seed goes in, it gets fertilizer right next to the seed. So it can have a good spot to grow in. Have all the nutrients it needs. He's almost full. A couple more scoops and he'll be full. Now that he's full, he'll take off, start planting. He can do about three rounds. He'll go down and back. He'll go down and back. And then he'll fill up again. We have our other planter over here that is currently filling up. He'll be going in a minute. He's loading. I'll explain how this works. Inside here is a big fan. And there's one on the other side as well. Those fans, they suck air through these holes. So these holes are what go, this thing goes around and it'll pick up the seed down there and it'll suck the seed onto the cup. And then when it comes around, so one of the fans provides suction, the other one is this one and it blows them off. So when it goes around down there, it blows them off and they drop onto the ground right there. And then these little chains right here are hooked to the bin. So as that bin down in the bottom where it picks up the seed gets low, it'll kick out more seed to make sure that it never runs out. There's little electric eyes in there that sense how empty the bowl is getting. And that's how it works. It just uses suction to pick them up and then it uses another fan to kick them off. It spins around. They're pretty accurate. We can plant it about five miles an hour. And yeah, that's how these planters work. There's a PTO that is hooked up right there. And that is what spins the fans. Everything else is run off a hydraulic. Okay, so we're in the cab now. About ready to start planting. These are all the controls. This one up here controls the speed of the cups, how they spin. GPS is down there. See how the seed is stuck to the cups like that? That's the suction that's pulling them on to the cups and holding them there. Once we start moving, the cups start spinning. Okay. You can see the seed. It picks up the seed. Then you can also see the chains that slowly turn and drop more seed in as the bowl gets empty. This is a six-row Lockwood air cup planter. You can also see that John Blue pump over there. The chains turning and that thing's pumping fertilizer to each row. Making sure they all have good fertilizer for growing. Here comes our other planter going the other way. Planting with two planters. You can plant a lot of acreage in a day. We're running a relay. He's winning. Yeah. Josh is winning the relay race. But because the tractors are offset a little bit, when Josh empties out, by the time he fills back up, this one will be about empty. So we don't have both of them waiting to load. All right. Christopher's going to explain the seed spacing. All right. So what we're shooting for, with how many sacks of seed we have, we're able to get 28,000 sacks of seed to plant on 1,200 acres of ground. So roughly that comes out to 23 sacks, 100-pound sacks of seed per acre. So we have to figure out on these six rows how far apart to space each seed piece. Well, our average seed piece was 2.4 ounces. So if you figure out how many ounces is in one pound, it's about six and a half pieces of seed per pound. So that comes up to 666 seed pieces in 100 pounds. So if you times that, we've got to put on 23 sacks of that. So we got, I want to say it was like 15,300 seed pieces per acre. And then, that being said, then we just figure out how far apart you have to space them. we do have a little chart that shows us to plant that much. It's about 11 and a half inch spacing on the seed pieces. So that's what our target is right now with those seed wheels, is to place every single seed piece at 11 and a half inch spacing. And that should get us the 23 sacks per acre and use the exact amount of seed that we have bought to plant on the 1200 acres. But if you're off just a little bit, like for instance, if we were to do plant accidentally one sack less per acre, we would end up with a thousand extra sacks, 1200 extra sacks at the end of it. At the end of planting, which would be like two full semi loads of seed. And so it's pretty important to be right on. The same thing goes the other way. If we're, if we plant one seed, like one inch, uh, farther apart and do one sack more per acre, well, we'll run out. We'll have two semis load or 1200 sacks of seed left over, which, uh, equates to, oh, probably what? 20, 25 acres, uh, seed that we would have to get extra. So it's really important that we plant it right at our target rate of 0.3 sacks per acre or 11 and a half inches. Now, you know, now he's done. He's going to turn around and go again. He'll set down these wheels in the back and the three point at the same time. So it's nice and level. So when we're talking about seed space, this is what we're talking about. So we have, these are, are seeds, seed pieces, seeds, and I've uncovered a whole bunch of them. And then I put my tape measure down there and I measure from the first one to the last one. And then I subtract one because I'm just trying to get the spaces. So I take how many inches it is from the first to the last and take the spaces in between and divide it. So in this case, it was 121 inches that I uncovered from first to last. And there was 11 spaces. So that's right at 11 inch spacing. Take 121 divided by 11, 11 inch spacing. So we're shooting for 11 to 11 and a half right in that range. So I think this is okay, but I need to keep checking. So here we are driving the tractor again at night. This time I'm not planting wheat. We are planting potatoes over here. You can see our GPS screens guiding us because we can't really see where we're going. It's just kind of a long, dark highway. We can see our rows right here. Make sure that they're working okay. If you look back here, you can see each one of these rows. This is what we're looking at. Making sure there's potatoes on those rows. Got to move around a little bit to see some of them. At night, we have to rely a little bit more on our ages. Making sure all those rows have numbers and are moving and not stuck on zero or eight. Anyway, this is a little bit of us planting at night. I think it's just getting close to 10 o'clock and here we are. Good scenery. The race is on. Let's see which planter makes it to the end first. Between the tracked machine and the wheeled machine. Josh and the wheeled machine going five miles an hour. Trevor and the track machine going five miles an hour. I bet you they're not going to gain on either one of each other. We'll see as they pass us here in a minute. And just as I predicted, they're going the exact same speed. We'll see you next time. We'll see. Stay riders. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Have a good day. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.