Unknown Title
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x2VuMMBx5aE
Unknown Category
 You ever wish you had a list of equipment and supplies for post-instruction cleanup? Well, I actually put one together for you and you'll be able to find it in the janitorial store in the download library. But here's the what I did is I actually created a list of for general cleaning. You know, this here is the equipment and supplies that you would use on just about any type of post-instruction cleanup that you would do. You know, all of them you're gonna use an extension ladder, step ladder of some sort, backpack or vacuum, you know, dustpan broom, you know, different things like that there. You know, just all the common items that you would use. Also, the supplies, you know, it's always good to have a tote for your supplies because most of this stuff is all just, you know, handheld items. So it's good to have a tote to keep everything in it. I listed some of the chemicals that you would use, you know, and some of the other supplies that you might have, toothbrush, grout brush and so on and so forth. Also then what I did is I went ahead and I did one for hard floor care because in some of the cases when we're doing post- construction cleanup, they're gonna ask us to go ahead and strip VCT tile and apply one or two coats of floor finish. So here I listed the types of equipment that you may use. So in most cases maybe you're gonna use a floor machine, either a rotary or cylindrical. You know, that's just a personal preference. I like rotary. I can do much more with that type of equipment. And I always have brush drives. I use brushes. I don't buy any pads anymore. Then if you're doing any ceramic tile and grout, you know, I'd recommend that you use a, you know, a 1200 psi extractor with an XX15 wand. That's just the way to go. It's just a much, much better system to have. I listed some of the supplies on the other side here, you know, for your floor strippers, neutral pH floor cleaner, razor knife, knee pads, floor finish, etc. I left room for you to expand this too for items that I might not have thought of. I put also here for carpet care. You know, sometimes, majority of time probably what they'll do is they'll ask you to do some carpet spotting. But there, I had a job one time where they didn't do, put any protector on the carpet and it got trashed. And they hired us to go ahead and clean the carpet. So I brought in our hot water extractor, you know, did a hot water extraction on it and dried it and everything and it looked great. So some of the things I got listed here for equipment is, you know, the three gallon pump up sprayer. You know, those are just great for applying your, your neutralizers and your pre sprays. You know, some of your supplies that you'd have is obviously a carpet spotting kit. Within that kit, you're gonna have the different chemicals that you'll need for spotting the carpet to remove whatever it might be. There'll be a tapping brush in there. You'll find, you should also have in your carpet spotting kit, you know, some kind of carpet spotting chart. So it kind of walks you through what you, the steps that you want to do for various types of spots. I've got window cleaning too. So on this side again, I've got the equipment. So, you know, you may have, you know, window cleaning bucket, you might use a five gallon bucket. You know, you might have a hip bucket on a belt. So for any of you else that have done a lot of window cleaning and been up on a step ladder and or extension ladder, you know, a hip bucket on a belt is the way to go because now you've got all your tools right there on your belt. You'll be able to have your T-bar applicator and your squeegee and your, your sponges and your cloths and everything on your belt. Some of the other things that I put in here was the T-bar applicator obviously, extension poles, they're always handy. Then I put an adjustable offset adapter. So for, for you, for those of you that don't know what that is, this is a, this is an adapter and what it does is it connects onto your extension pole. And this one here is an Unger. Then you have an actual swivel. You can adjust the, the, the angle of this here to whatever angle that you need it for, for when you're washing an overhang or something like that. This here you're going to hold, you're going to go ahead and put your applicator on there or your squeegee or a fixie clamp or, or some, you know, whatever it is that you're, that you're trying to do. But that's all this is. It works great. So you should have these in your arsenal if you're window cleaning. What I put on the supply side was some of the, you know, dish, dish soap. That's probably one of the best things. I always use done dish soap. You don't need no fancy window cleaning solutions or anything like that. Microfiber cloth, chamois, sea foam sponge, you know, four-hot steel wool, hard water remover, you know, and the lint-free gloves and microfiber pads. Now the microfiber pads are for a telescopic handle with a microfiber pad holder. When you're doing, oh, let's say you got two-story windows or some that are kind of, kind of difficult to wash where you don't want to drip water on anything. Well, you're going to use a telescopic handle with a microfiber pad holder on it and you're going to attach a microfiber pad to it that you've pre-sprayed with glass cleaner and then you just raise that up and take it to the window and you clean the window that way. So you really minimize the amount of water that you put on, put on the pad and apply to the window and that's really the way to go. So I hope you found this helpful. If you liked the video, go ahead and subscribe down below and don't forget to click on the like and share. Go ahead and share this with other people and you know, I've got many more documents like this in the post-instruction cleaning section of the download library of the janitorial store. You'll find proposals, letters, you know, I'm going to put some brochures in there and some marketing materials and different things like that too. But hopefully you'll find it helpful and you know, we'll keep on putting this stuff in there and giving you some good information to help you grow your cleaning business. Until then, have a good one.