How to Start Your First Garden (COMPLETE GUIDE)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X3SP1Fub3bw
Howto & Style
 If you've wanted to start a garden, but you're confused on all of the information out there, this video is the one to watch because I'm going to take this regular suburban backyard into a productive backyard vegetable garden. We're actually not at my house right now. We're at my brother's who have been trying to get to garden for like 10 years. The last thing I saw him grow was like this sad cilantro on a little balcony. And it really made me depressed as the Epic Gardener. He called me up and he said, Hey, I'm actually excited and I want to get back into the garden. So I jumped at the chance. We're here in his backyard. Let's get this going. My brother. Where art thou? Here he is. The mythical brother who started gardening with me 10, 12 years ago. It's been a long time and stopped 10 or 12 years ago. So I don't know. What do you think? Do we look like twins? Do we look like brothers? Tell us down in the comments, but Brian, so you're here. You have a wife, a beautiful child. Yep. We want to start a garden. Why? Yeah, I think a big part of that is really the space. We haven't really had it. We haven't been in a house before. A little townhouse and apartments really didn't have a place to do much besides little herbs. So now that we have the backyard, we have a place for it. We can grow some herbs, vegetables, some fruit trees with our daughter. Now we can get some fresh vegetables, teach her a little bit about gardening back here, which is going to be really nice as she gets older. So I think that's really been a big driver for everything. There's really two major considerations when you're designing a garden space. The first is where is it in location to your own home? Mm-hmm. So if you're in the kitchen and you say, oh, hey, I need some basil, you don't want it to be annoying mentally to come out and run and grab it. And then if we walk over here, the thing you can really get wrong and a lot of beginners will get wrong is literally where is it in relation to how the sun plays over your space? Uh-huh. So let's say like you were in a rural area and you just had complete open space. You could basically put it anywhere. Yeah. Right. Because there's no major structures blocking sunlight and sunlight's what a plant really needs to grow. Now, not all plants need the same amount of light, but you want to give them as much as they can get. Right. So do you know where east, south, northwest are? Yeah. So west is this direction, generally east over here, south that way. Okay. We kind of took into account a little bit as much as we could. Okay. And the reason why that's important, guys, is because the sun's going to rise in the east, it's going to set in the west, and the sun exposure is going to change, of course, throughout like the summer and the winter. And so even if you look right here, this is kind of like a southwest facing wall. You notice that it's about midday and you're seeing some shadow right there. And so we know it's not bad because we have plenty of plants that can grow well in the shade. But if you look at this line right here, that's kind of the shadow line throughout the day. And it is winter right now, so it's going to be a little more harsh. But we're going to want to locate some of our sunnier plants over here. And if we can or you can in the backyard, you want to pick a spot that has as much light as possible. And I have another way we're going to solve some of this light problem. If I was growing something on the ground right here, Bri, it's in the shadow. Right now, it's not in the shadow right here. Okay, true. It's not in the shadow right here. And so when you're talking about different ways to grow in a backyard vegetable garden, you could just dig into the ground and grow. Or you could put it in little containers. Yeah. But we're going to use something called a raised bed. And we're going to use pretty tall ones here to avoid some of that shadow cast. There's a lot of different ways you can work with a space that even has this much shade. And we need to get the raised beds. So let's go grab those. Great. Yeah. All right, Bri. So we pre-built some of our birdies beds here. Uh-huh. But there's a lot of different ways you could do this. You could do it with wood. All right. You could do it with metal like these guys. You could just kind of scrounge up whatever you want and do it on a budget. But we need to talk about placement. So what do you know about, you know, how to space stuff out in the garden? Not much? Not a lot other than you need space to work in. And that's about it, I guess. Well, there's the height of the bed. Uh-huh. And then there's the spacing with which you want to like exist in the garden. Uh-huh. When you're walking between a bed, you almost always want about 30 inches. All right. 30 inches gives you enough space to maybe bring a wheelbarrow down if you wanted to. Oh, okay. Or to bring some tools or just, you know, just to walk. Okay, so we've got the taller beds. Mm-hmm. I kind of like this. Okay. I think that's generally what we're thinking too. Yeah, it's nice. You get some low, maybe some herbs over there, maybe some leafy greens in that more shaded out spot. And then these ones, you can pretty much grow whatever you want, but we need to grab at least two more. The nice thing about these is if you say you didn't want it to be this shape, in the end, you could just move the panels around. Oh yeah. Okay. That's true. Switch it out to whatever you really wanted. But we do need to build out one more bed. Okay. It's build time. We've got the corners. We've got the side panels. What dimension were you guys thinking? We're doing another seven by two. Okay. Yeah. So we're going to need all the pieces. Yep. Let's do it. All right. We've got our two by seven brai. You're putting the liner on, which is helpful for the fingers. But whether you're using one of our birdies beds or you're building a wooden bed or some other type of construction, after you get past a certain length, it's usually a good idea to have some kind of brace. Even with a wood bed, you could have like a two by four going across. In our case, I'll show you how we do it. We've got these bracing channels and you just slide it down just like this. This is why you don't screw down those last couple right there. Lock it in place. So now we can't come out at all really. And because of the bracing channels, we can't really go in. It helps from bowing. Cause like the soil when it gets wet can actually exert a lot of force. It's pretty heavy I guess too, right? When you get in full. Yeah, exactly. Okay. So we are almost built out. Now we have to get into the problem of filling these beds. It's the most common question anyone has when starting a raised bed vegetable garden, especially when you're using a taller bed or just if you have a lot of beds. Right. We have roughly the layout, which I think looks pretty good and we'll tighten it up. But we have to solve the problem of soil. The first thing you have to figure out is how much you need. And the way you figure that out is by going back to probably middle school or high school math and doing a volume calculation. We take this one that we just did, the two by seven. So two times seven, 14. And then it's 30 inches tall. So it's like two and a half. So that ends up being about 34 cubic feet. That's the volume for just this bed. So this one over here, 34 plus 34, 68. So you do have to crank out the calculator and do a bit of math here. But what I'm going to show you is two different ways to get the soil and one technique to cut the amount of soil that you need. So most of the time a plant's roots are going to get to about here or so. It's fine if they only get to about there. So they don't need to go all the way, all the way down. Oh, okay. And you can fill that up with like logs or sticks or twigs or whatever. That's way cheaper than soil. Okay. So we're going to fill about half of it with that. That'll cut our entire calculation of soil volume for this whole garden by half. Yeah. So let's hit the nursery. Great. We're here at Armstrong Nurseries, the closest nursery to you, Bri. Yeah. One of my favorite nurseries in the Southern California area. Okay. And tell me what you think when you see all this soil. I don't know where to start. Yeah, there's a lot. I know. So let's talk through a couple of the different options that you have. But the first thing I want to say is if you have a budget, spend most of it on your soil. Oh, really? Because that is where everything is starting for you. Like when I first started that garden, I had back at that old place, that old garden. I had this like really clay soil that got delivered and it just was bad. Like one year it was okay. And then after that, it got really compacted, really hard. And if I had spent a little bit more money, because I was trying to save some cash, it wouldn't have been that way. Okay. And I would have not had to replace it. And I would have not had to dig it all out, you know? So if you're going to spend some money in the garden, spend it on a really nice soil. But that being said, I mean, you've got a potting soil here. You have a cactus succulent potting mix. You have something called ocean forest over here. You have a rose mix. It gets a little overwhelming. It's a lot. Right? So the first thing to think about is you're going to want either a raised bed mix like this right here. So raised bed potting mix. That's pretty straightforward, I guess. Yeah. I mean, that's like right down the middle of what you kind of want. Or you can get like just a standard potting mix. It doesn't have to be for raised beds. Okay. But the things you want to avoid, there's something called garden soil. Typically you want to avoid that. That's more of like a filler material. It's not, it doesn't have as much nutrition in it. It has a little bit more wood product in it. It's just not as powerful. I like to look at the back and just see what's inside. So let's take a look at the ingredients here. The first thing you see is composted green waste, which is basically things like food scraps or grass or something that's been broken down. So that's a decent ingredient. Then you've got fir bark. That's like going to help loosen up the mix and make it a little bit more airy. Then this one, this one's a little controversial. It's called sphagnum peat moss. Basically that adds your moisture retention. So if you have peat moss in there, there's another product called coconut coir, which is made out of shredded coconut husk. Both of them basically accept water and like hold it in the soil. So it doesn't just drain out. It doesn't just fall right out. Right? Because the soil needs fertility, which is fertilizer, compost, that kind of thing. It needs drainage. So the ability for stuff water to actually get out of it. Okay. But it also needs retention and like one third, one third, one third. So if you look at it through that lens, you could say, well, the green waste, there's fertility. The fir bark is a little bit more of drainage. The peat moss is retention. Sand and perlite, that's going to be drainage. Mm-hmm. The sand and then perlite, like these sort of white little pumice rocks type things. That's going to let water kind of fall through. Got it. Right? And then the rest of this is all fertility. Alfalfa meal, fishbone meal, bone meal, feather meal, kelp meal, ecto and endomycorrhizae. What that means is they inoculate it with mycorrhizal fungi and those fungi sort of eat all this fertility here, like the alfalfa, the fishbone, the bone meal, the feather meal and unlock it for the plants. Okay. So that's kind of like one of the nerdier relationships that happens in the soil. So let's take a look at this one. This is called ocean forest fry. You've got these three numbers here. Do you know what those mean at all? Uh, no, I don't. So it's going to be called an NPK. So your nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium. Okay. Plants need those nutrients in the most abundance. They need more than that, but those are the big three. So when you see fertilizer labels or on soil fertilizer breakdowns, it'll always be the N, the P and the K. And this is sort of the ratio and the amount. So it has the most, uh, phosphorus, has the next most nitrogen, that has a little bit of potassium in there. Is that a pretty standard ratio or like a good ratio for growth of vegetables? That's pretty standard. I mean, you're going to want a lot of nitrogen early. That creates a lot of nice leafy growth. And then as a plant matures, it tends to want a little bit more of the latter two as it makes like a flower or a fruit or something like that. So you might sometimes see, like if you were to get a fruit mix, maybe it's a little higher than those other two. It just, it just kind of depends. So let's take a look at a soil that we might not want to buy and figure out like, why is that? Okay. You know, this is the same brand as the first one we looked at. And a lot of people, when they start, they go, well, I've heard of that word compost, right? So I'll just get that. And it's got veggies. So I would think I could, that'd be great for what we're doing. Yeah, exactly. And it says ideal for, and this, if you want, if you read, you can see why it might not be ideal. It says ideal for mulching and amendment. So adding to something, right? Seed cover, breaking up clay soil, improve soil texture. It doesn't say just plants in this though. Okay. Right. So when you look at the back of this, green waste, sawdust, alfalfa meal, bone meal, feather meal, kelp meal, all that stuff that was in the first one. But what is it missing? Seems like some of the drainage, potentially? Some of the drainage. It's not, it doesn't have that peat moss. It doesn't have that perlite, that sand. So it's not really a potting mix. It's just a fertilizer. Oh, okay. It's just that one third part. So if you filled your bed, if I filled a bed with this, the growth wouldn't be quite as... It wouldn't not grow, but it wouldn't grow super well. Okay. So given that we have to just say, okay, well, what's our budget? I think let's come in with a lower budget here and try to be a little bit conservative. Yeah. It's a lot of beds. It's a lot of beds. Yeah. And so we're going to get a delivery of some of this stuff, probably right here. And if they don't have enough, we might have to go over there and grab some of the other stuff. But we also have to talk plants. Yeah. And I want to know what you guys want to grow. So let's hit the seed wall. Great. We're here at the wall of seed indoors, of course, botanical interests. Again, overwhelming. Quite a bit. Yeah. A lot of choice here. So what are the questions that you have? So we know what we generally want to grow because these things we eat. So like we're talking like chives and herbs, vegetable wise, like some bok choy, jalapeno, tomato. So like the classic. The classic stuff. Just so we'll know we'll go through, I guess. But like, I don't know what right now in January, can we really grow successfully of those? Okay. Okay. So a good way to think about this is when you're starting from seed, you save money because you can get way more seed than you could go out and like buy the live plant of. Right? So if we were to go buy this endive outside, we're getting like six of them for more, almost double the price of this or more. And this has like hundreds of seeds in it. Right? And then it also allows you, let's say you really like eggplant. There's this long purple eggplant right here. You can't really grow eggplant in January. So you can buy the seeds now, learn to start the seeds, and then you can grow those out when it's actually the season. Got it. And so one way to think about it, because we're going to do both, we're going to get some seeds here, but we're also going to do some seedlings out there, is let's pick the stuff you like, but it's like a summer crop. Because you can't grow that right now in January. So what we'll do is mess around with really whatever you like that's more of a summery thing. All right. So your jalapenos, there's a Megatron right there. That's really nice. You can always do onions from seed. I think any sort of bunching onion is like really easy to grow from seed. So we've got a good selection. Yeah. Let's go out and grab some like live plants. Because there's some secrets on how to like get the right ones. Cool. Yeah. Let's go. Actually one of my favorite parts of a nursery, which would be just like messing around with all the different plants that are actually alive. Uh-huh. So the trade-off is what do you get? You get an actually started plant. Yeah. But it is a lot more expensive. Right? So a six pack of these is seven, $7 for the veggies, $6.49 for the herbs. We paid like a couple bucks for the seeds. Yeah. But what are you getting? You're getting time. Yeah. Right? So you're getting all the time it took to grow. So how long am I saving by getting like this versus a seed? It depends on the seed. So something like a lettuce, you might be saving one to two weeks. Something like a sage or like a rosemary, you might be saving over a month. Oh, that's not... Maybe even two months. That's not a thing. You know, or if you bought a tomato, let's say they don't have them here right now. But if you bought a tomato that was like this tall, you're saving two months. And you're paying four more bucks for the privilege. Right? That's not bad. So sometimes it's worth it. And also if you're a beginner, we're going to show you how to start seeds, but you might not actually know how to do it that well at the start. And you might start one and then like kill it. And then you lost all the time all over again. Right? How do I know what's a good plant? I mean, just grabbing whatever looks like vibrant. It's actually a really good question. This guy versus this guy. I mean, honestly, these are all kind of the same, but sometimes you'll find like, you know, I'm personally not going to pick this floppy one against this guy. Just looks more... This one. Yeah. You know how you know is like this one's floppier. There's a lot of seeds down at the bottom. This is not just one plant, right? This is like five to seven plants. And they do that to make it look a little bit more bushy. Got it. Because if you just had one little thing coming out, Yeah. You wouldn't sell it at a nursery, but you don't technically need seven growing in the same space. And so there's a couple like fun little tips I'll show you, but this one looks pretty nice. And if you wanted to, this again has like a ton of stems coming out. And you split those out. You could split them. Right? So this Thai basil could become, if you got really crazy, something I've done before is you actually spray all the dirt off, separate the roots out and replant them all separately. You could turn this one, which is looks like 649 into seven Thai basil if you wanted. Now it's tedious, but like you could, if you wanted to, but we'll throw this in here. All right. The thing about herbs too, by the way, is they all pretty much like the same thing. They're almost all these herbs are Mediterranean herbs, like oregano, the French thyme, the sage, like you can put them in the same bed. Maybe that like circular one and you can just let them let them. Okay. Yeah. So sage is definitely one we'd want to do. There's sage. I do see some strawberry here, not herbs. You know, it'd be interesting if you did like strawberries in that little circle bed, we definitely would use the strawberries for sure. So that would be awesome. Okay. So is it better to start the, or is it time saving thing again? Like strawberries versus the seeds? You can grow strawberries from seed. We have strawberry seeds at Botanical, but it takes a long time. Okay. And so for a beginner, I would say definitely don't grow strawberries from seed. Absolutely worth doing this. But then you have the dilemma. You can buy just one like this, or you can buy two of these six packs would probably be great because you'd have 12. So the thing about Straubs is you have what's called June bearing, which you get it. Right? It's going to fruit in June and then ever bearing. So June bearing is going to basically create like huge strawberries from like June to early July and then it won't. And then ever bearing is going to make two or three flushes of strawberries, but they're smaller and it's going to be like kind of throughout the year. If you want like big old juicy Straubs, I would do this. Also, I think they only have this. Okay. We're probably going to go with this. All right. Should I grab some that are already flowering then? Because that's obviously a good sign or... That's like, no, no. Actually what I typically do is when I plant them, I cut all the flowers off. Oh. In the very start. Why? Because I want more leaves first and it's January. It's not even close to June. And so I'd rather just let them get massive and then they'll produce way more strawberries in June. So it's not necessarily good that they have the flowers, but it's not bad either. Okay. It's not a big deal. We can just... Some of this growth looks pretty good. Yeah. That looks really nice. You got this nice little thing coming out right there, but then see this in January, I'd be pinching that right off. And we can do that when we get home. Great. When you're picking stuff to put into a bed, you got to think, okay, well, how much space do I have in that bed? Yeah. So if we were to put the spinach and this kale in that three by four foot bed, well then you have to go, how do I know how much I'm supposed to put in there? That's true. Yeah. Like is between those, if we were to plant both of these sixes of these plants, would that be one whole... 12 total plants? Would that be the entire bed essentially? I would say there's probably a little more room because you want to plant these... You can plant the same way, like six to 12 inches apart and spinach you can actually put pretty close together. And I kind of like to put plants a little closer in general, especially in a raised bed. So I think we could probably get away with maybe grabbing like some filler lettuce, maybe. Okay. Like let's go over here and see what you like. So now it's just like whatever type of lettuce you actually enjoy. Yeah. Romaine is pretty, you know, tried and true, I guess. Yeah. Yeah. Paris Island is a really famous variety. Yeah. So like you're looking at, you know, a 15 day old lettuce now, at least. That's pretty good. And so you just save that much time. Right? So if you're trying to get like something going fast, seedlings are the way to go. All right, Brian, we've got all the stuff from the nursery. It took a while to get here. And now what we have to do is truly start the construction of the garden. And the first step is to finalize the placement. So do you like where they look in general? Yeah, definitely. Well, first of all, why don't we come down here, dude? Let's look because you really want to look at like how the space feels, you know? It doesn't have to look absolutely perfect, but it feels better, you know? So if you walk in, you got a tree maybe here, grab some herbs, grab some herbs, come down, go here. I like it. You like it? Yeah. And there's other ways you could, you guys could play this. Like you could, you could arrange these this way, right? Or you could bring this and turn it. Mm-hmm. Or, you know, these could be at the bottom. There's a lot of ways you could skin it. That's why it's important at this part. Yeah. You just like think through it, like do some Jenga and just figure out what feels the best. Let's try it going this way just because we've never visually seen it. So maybe it makes sense. Because then you do have a nice middle line coming through. Yeah. So why don't we lift and try it? It's also nice to have these beds kind of like this because you can do like a trellis from one to the other if you want to. Oh. You could even have, this would be like the perfect one dude to do an arch and walk through and have like cucumbers coming down or something. Like you could totally do that. Another thing you can think about is you don't only have to have have beds here. If you have a nice walkway and you bring these in, right? You can put little pots with like little things or little propagations, or you can put a little flower bed here or something. Plus when I mow the lawn, I don't want to have to be up against a bed. Yeah. It gives me more space there. By the way, a little epic pro tip. I know a lot of you in the comments are going to say, what about this landscape fabric you see down here? It's definitely not required. You don't have to put landscape fabric down. This is just what Bri had on the property. So we're going to use what we have. But if you don't want to use landscape fabric and you want to maybe not use any sort of synthetic material, you definitely don't have to. The one thing I'll say is you want to prevent the weeds from coming up at least in your bed, which is what the logs do. And we usually use the actual cardboard of the boxes and put it in the bottom. Oh, okay. So it's just a good way to repurpose it. So you kind of like toss all the cardboard in the bottom, toss the logs in, then toss your soil in. Got it. And then like gophers and stuff like we'll have a harder time coming up. Okay. But the landscape fabric will also help. Okay. Yeah. Okay. I think it looks pretty damn good. Now, how do you fill it with soil? Uh huh. Right. So the little guys, you just fill with soil. Okay. You don't have to do anything. But the reason why we have all these logs is because we're trying to save that money. Yeah. Right. So grab a few. Okay. And it's, you know, if you can get logs for free, that's obviously the best. Yeah. So I like to kind of wedge one in just like this in the corners. Why? It just sticks it in place. Okay. So if you like where your bed is. So it doesn't move, like anchor it basically? It's not moving anymore. Okay. You know what I mean? So we're not doing like a, like a very organized stack. It doesn't really matter. You can. The only reason you would is because when you put the soil in, there'll be little pockets of air and stuff. So sometimes if it's not fill later, it'll sink through. It'll start to sink, which isn't really that big a deal. Like you, what you can do is just put some extra soil on top, top it up and you're good to go. Okay. Okay. So we're going to keep filling these, Bri. And then once we're done getting it to about halfway up, then it's time to fill the soil. Okay. Perfect. All right, bro. The day is getting long. Yeah. It's time to do the fun part. Okay. Which is plant out. So let's talk. What questions do you have about getting stuff in the ground from a seedling level? We're going to start some seeds in a set. Uh huh. I guess not so much getting it in there as much as just like, what do I need to take into account when I'm planting what together? I guess like water needs and stuff like that. Is that important? Is it not? It is. Yeah, no, it definitely is. So let's kind of group these by type, right? We have our herbs. So let's grab the herbs and pop them over here. Because that's, that's the theme for a bed, right? An herb bed is a very common theme. We have these strawberries we bought. So this is our idea was to put those in one, right? Yeah. We got our lettuce, our spinach, and then our- Our kales. Kales. And our, it looks like, uh, we got some cabbage here. Okay, nice, nice. Let's start out with our herbs. They're the easiest. They're the hardest to go wrong. Okay. Yeah. So there's just really, really simple. So grab those two over there, Bri. Oh yeah. And I'm putting them here because these are Mediterranean herbs. What is the climate like in the Mediterranean area? Sunny, warm. Sunny, warm. This is in that area of your garden. It's going to get the most light. It's going to get the most fun. Okay. Right? They're low. These, these are, will kind of bush and spill over, look really beautiful. But also what do you probably use the most? Yeah. Right? I'm going to come out for herbs probably way more than you're going to come out for an eggplant, for example. And so we're going to pop these in here. Spacing wise, you don't have to think too much about it, but we'll talk about each plant and what, the way it grows. It's called its growing habit, like the way it actually bushes out. So take this rosemary here, this guy, it's called upright rosemary. So this is a variety that is going to be a little bit more like columnar. So it's not going to get, cover a bunch of space in this. It's not going to be on the ground. Okay. So these are your ground plants for herbs, your oregano and your thyme. Those are called, those will creep and kind of fall. So they'll sort of fill the bottom. Okay. Whereas a rosemary will go straight up. Right? So I like, if I'm thinking about like where I'm looking most of the time when I'm coming in, I don't want to put a rosemary right here. It's going to block the rest of this bed visually. You know what I mean? Put it towards the back. I put it towards the back. So why don't you pop that one out? Okay. And get that one in the ground. And what am I, am I bringing the bottom of this soil to the top of this soil basically? Yeah. In almost all cases when you're planting something, you're just matching the height of where it is to the soil. So one thing I'll say is, Break it up. Sometimes you do, you don't have to do it every time. This isn't too, too bad, but sometimes. It's tight. Yeah. If it's tight and if you see it swirling, what you can do is you can be way more rough than you think too. You can just kind of do this, kind of do a little bit of this and that's good. That's totally fine. And then just plop it in. I'd plop it in. Yeah. Give it a little space off the side. So then you get into a basil and this was your plant. You remember back in the day? Yeah. I know a lot about the basil. He's a basil master. He might have to feature on a video just doing basil for us. So this is one brie that I would not really worry about breaking up much. Okay. Because it looks pretty good. Right? So this one, again, basil, you remember. Yeah. You're going to probably want to put it somewhere like this. Okay. Right? Because it'll block everything if you don't do that. And leave, if there's more than one of these plants together for now, just leave them as is. It's really up to you. One thing I might do if I was using this just for my kitchen, right? And I wanted to grow a big old bush, is I would actually pick, I'd say maybe pick the best looking stem, like this stem right here. I might cut all these the first time I harvest and just cut it completely off and just leave one. And the reason why I do that is because these are all competing for the same nutrients in the same space as this one. Got it. Right? So I'd use this just as basil to harvest. And then what I might do is I'd prune this basil. See how these two leaves are coming out right here? Uh-huh. If you prune right above that, these are going to shoot outwards like this and bush out. So basically if you prune above, it forces bushiness. Yeah, yeah, yeah. But you see what I'm getting at? Like use these as herbs and then force this one to push out and become its own really big bush. Got it. But if you want to, to keep it simple, you could just put it in like this. Okay. So you're saying right now I could cut all them? You could do that immediately if you want, or just like tomorrow when you have your eggs and basil or whatever. Oh, I see. Okay. Yeah. This can get quite big. Yeah. I remember it getting pretty big. I might bring it like somewhere around this area. Oh, okay. And then what I like to do too is just kind of space these and think, you know, how do I want these to lay out? This looks pleasing, right? Mm-hmm. Because part of it's just like, does it look good? Aesthetically. Aesthetically. Yeah. But then secondly, sage is going to grow a bit taller than these two oregano and thyme. So would I want this kind of further in the back as well? So it's not covering some of this? You could. You totally could. Or the only reason I was thinking maybe not do this is then these kind of blend together. Oh, because they both will just cover. And they'll kind of cover into another. But if you put these kind of close to the edge, what you'll get is this nice like spilling effect over the edge that could look really cool. But we could also maybe do this parsley right in the middle. Do that. Or just to throw a curve ball, we could put that basil right in the middle, bring this over here. And then the basil is the centerpiece. Could look cool. Up to you. I think parsley in the middle would look good. Okay. Let's do that. So the thing with growing herbs is it's really mostly about maintenance. Like once they're in, it's mostly about using them regularly enough, pruning them, cutting them back. And you don't have to fertilize them all too often. You don't have to water them even all too often because they're Mediterranean herbs, right? They don't really grow in a place that's getting so much rain that it would need it. And they're just really hardy plants. Sometimes you want to smell. Smells like doo doo. Yeah. I smelled that coming from somewhere. I didn't know what it was from. If you smell that, that means that it's gone anaerobic. Because if it smells bad, it's all those bad bacteria. Another good reason to kind of break it up, give it a little bit of air. And you don't even really need to water this too much right now because it's already too wet. You know, why don't you grab those strawberries, Brian? And then I'll get, I'll get the scissors. All right. Okay. Strawberry time. Yeah. These ones are honestly going to be massive, dude. Yeah. Gene bearings are huge. I'm going to do the unthinkable and have you trace the flowers down to the root stem there. Cut it all the way off. How far to the... As far down as you can. Because if you look at the anatomy of the strawberry, you can see it's mostly just single leaves, right? And they have this long stem and then same with the flower, right? So if you're cutting off here, why not cut off all the way there? Because you're making the plant keep this random stick alive. I see. For no reason. Yeah. Right. Okay. So snip all these off. Just the flowering. Yeah. Just the flowering. And then we'll talk a little bit about strawberries and how they grow. So strawberries are going to put out all these leaves and then the stuff that Bri is cutting off, that's the flower that will then form the strawberry. But if you remember from the nursery, these are June bearing strawberries, meaning that in January, there's quite a bit of time before these really are going to be of size where they're going to put out those beautiful fruit. So Bri is pruning all these flowers off basically to force this strawberry plant to keep putting out more leaves. What do leaves do? They give you energy, right? They give the plant energy. So it's going to have a lot more energy when June comes. So you could even do this, Bri, up until about the beginning of May. So the beginning of May, you could do that. You'll force them to be these massive strawberry bushes. And then when you start seeing flowers in May, stop pruning and you'll start getting an incredible amount of like huge strawberries. What about the ones that are growing off, say, which one was I just looking at? There was one where there's some leaves, some flowers just go all the way down. I'd still go all the way down because that's primarily a flower. Okay. Like there's this random little leaf, but it's not a significant one. You know what I mean? It's not like you're cutting off one of these guys. Or like, how about this guy where there's a couple of small leaves coming off the side of the flowering? That's actually just twisted up. Oh, well, there you go. Just cut that guy off there. There you go. Easy. Okay. So we'll talk spacing. So the way strawberries propagate themselves is they put out what's called a runner. So it'll throw a stem out kind of like this. That stem will have a leaf like this, but the leaf will have a little ability to put a root down. So it'll kind of go like, and then it'll go like this and a root will put in the soil. And then you could actually sever this and you'd have a new plant. Oh, I see. So you want to space the strawberries out so that they can do that a little bit, but not too much. Because if they do that a ton, then they're not really making strawberries, you know? So you want to just, in this case, just space them as evenly apart from one another as possible. Okay. So kind of do some around the edge. We have how many? 12 here. There. Around the corner is nice. Go there. There. There. There. Yeah. I mean, that looks pretty good to me. Got one extra here. Yeah. Maybe like that. Yeah. Yeah. If you want, you can toss this in a random other bed too, you know? Yeah, it's true. So when you plant a strawberry, it's super important. See where this new growth is coming out of right there. That's called the crown. That's where all that new stuff is coming. You want to plant below it. So you really would never want to put the soil like up to here, certainly not up to here, because it's going to rot the crown. That's where all the growth is. So if that rots, the thing is done. It's done. Yeah. So when you come in, you put it in like this, come around. And I kind of like to just like press it down into the soil like that and see how it's still sticking up a bit. That's my way of knowing I didn't accidentally kind of drown my strawberries. I see. Just pack it down around there basically. Yeah. Yeah. Because if you plant something and you don't pack it, I mean, you don't have to like cram it or anything, but if there's a lot of air pockets around, it's not really great for the plant. So basically if you keep pruning those flowers off, eventually you won't even be able to see the soil. Wow. And then you'll have to go hunting for the strawberries. You'll be like looking under and you'll see some big old strawberry. And every day when you come out in June, you'll randomly find another one and you'll think you looked for it. And then the next day it's almost like it grew overnight. It's crazy. Sounds delicious. Okay. Let's hit the lettuce bed. Okay. We'll do the lettuce right here. Cabbage are huge. So you actually might want to put the cabbage over here. Okay. So let's leave that for now. Let's just pop all these out. There's like way less rules to this. Way less guidance. To the lettuce. To the lettuce. Because you're just, I mean really what is it? You're just eating the leaves of a plant that grows really fast. That's true. It's not stressing too much. It does like a little bit of fertilizer. You know how we looked at those NPKs on the bags? Uh huh. It likes a lot of N. It likes a lot of nitrogen. Okay. Because it's primarily what plants use to grow their leaves. But honestly, with what's in this from the nursery, we're totally good. So for me, when I'm making one of these, call it salad beds, I like to just design it based on what looks good. And spacing wise, you can kind of be as loose as you want. Okay. Like for example, if you were to plant these two romaines really close, well then what's going to happen? As this grows, it's going to go right into one another. Yeah. Right? And so that's fine if you wanted to harvest it young. So you could harvest it maybe like, honestly, almost a couple of days after this is like baby leaf lettuce. So then you could really cram them close together because you're harvesting it. Right? But if you wanted to grow a nice big romaine, you want to give it enough space to kind of bulb up. Not bulb up, but like leaf out. Yeah. You know? And so that's kind of up to you. And also it's up to how much space you have in the bed. So let's just kind of lay them out however you think looks good. Does it make sense to grow the same thing next to each other? It doesn't really matter with this either. You totally could. Or you could just mix it. Mix and match it. Like if you wanted a nice ability to come down this line, cut off some lettuce, I might put it in a row. If you wanted to kind of like have that varied look, I might just mix and match. What are you feeling? Uh, probably, I think I like the idea of the same one thing by itself. So then let's just do, in that case, I'll show you a spacing technique that helps then. So lay them out roughly even. But what we'll do is we'll stagger the kale in the middle. Okay. The other. Because it's a little more efficient with the way that you can space. So instead of doing this, right? If I do this, then there's more space. Oh, I see. And these grow for that to actually be there. You know what I mean? So that looks pretty good to me. So I just pop them in. Cool. So if you wanted, we're putting these all in at the same time, right? So what's going to happen? They're all going to be ready at the same time. Yeah. Which you might, you might not want. Right? So I would say when you come out, I'd harvest some of these as you go. Yeah. And you could even take like a whole head that's young or too early, but that's fine. Cause that's just a baby lettuce. Yeah. If you wanted it to be more stable and you get a normal amount at like in a week, then I would plant some like once a week. I see. Or once every two weeks, you know, cause then you're staggering it a bit. You know my story with cabbage. I've tried and I failed and I've tried and I've succeeded, but mostly I've failed to grow giant, giant cabbages. We don't even need giant. We just need cabbage. You just need like a couple. We're not looking for a couple of founders. The world's best. Okay. So do you know much about how it grows? Just a big, big boy in the middle, right? A little big boy. Yeah. There's a big boy in the middle, which means it needs a lot of small boys on the outside to help it kind of grow, which means that you need to give it the space, right? So if you're ever in doubt and you just don't know, obviously go to EpicGardening.com. We have like thousands of blog articles on how to grow plants, but you can also look at the tag. Okay. So you've got space, 18 inches. See that? So what that means, and sometimes spacing, it'll be a little confusing, but usually when in doubt, just follow that exactly. Okay. And you'll be at least safe. Yeah. So the reason why is because let's lay out, what do we have? Three, three and three. So is this even enough space for six? I would say it's just barely enough. Okay. Right. Because 18, the best way to think about it is just nine on each side, right? Because if you're spacing multiple plants together, if you go nine on each side, that'll be nine and nine, that'll be 18. Right? So what we want to do, and another hack is when you're next to an edge, you can cheat that spacing. You could go to here. You don't have to give nine here or 18 because there's nothing over here. Okay. Right? So it'll grow up. And then the way cabbage grows is it does these crazy leaves out and those leaves start to curl in and that's the cabbage. It's just a bunch of leaves like curled. Uh huh. So it needs those leaves out, which is why you have to space it out at the 18. Got it. Okay. So that's pretty much it. And the thing I'll say about this is much like the kale, because cabbage is actually the same exact plant as kale. You want to bury this, give it that stability because look how floppy this is. Yeah, this one too is a little bit. You could legitimately just break that on accident. Right? So let's get these in there. We've just planted out four of Bri's beds. There's two left to plant, but we're not going to plant them. I'm going to show you how to start the seeds that we bought at the nursery. Uh huh. So you don't even have to plant these right now if you don't want to. You can just start like your favorite pepper, your favorite tomato, and I'll show you how to do that over there. Perfect. All right. The moment of truth. This is when you become an advanced gardener, when you can start your own seeds. Why? Because you get all that variety. Like for example, I'm surprised you picked this one. This is actually a really cool one. I met the guy who bred this potato. Oh wow. So normally you just plant a potato to grow a potato. Yeah. This one you grow from an actual seed. So this is kind of a fun one. It's an adventurous one. We can try it if you want to. But let's start out. It'd be fun to try. Yeah. Yeah. We definitely should. Let's start out with something a little bit easier. How do I know when to start what? Or timing wise, like which one should I plant now? Okay. So we have a garden right here, right? You have lettuce, cabbage, strawberries, and herbs. So you probably don't want to plant any of those. And if you were to grow something like, I don't know, a tomato, that'd be a really good choice. Why? Because you can grow tomatoes in a seed tray for like two months before you even put them in the ground. In fact, when someone's in a colder climate than we are, what they'll do is they'll start their tomatoes in January, February, put them in like little pots, they'll grow them up, and then they'll put a plant like this in the actual garden. Oh wow. Okay. Because you can transplant in, right? That's the whole point. So I would say maybe get a head start on some of your summer stuff that we bought. Okay. And then also anything else you think is interesting. Got it. Right? That you didn't buy. So what looks good to you? Tomatoes, yes. I think jalapenos would be really cool to start. So we'll do the, maybe the Megatron jalapeno. You pop that one open. Okay. And I'll do, we'll do the Cherokee purple tomato, which is a really classic heirloom tomato. So there's your pepper seeds. So a good rule of thumb when you're using our six cells is just to plant six. Yeah. Or if you want to get really particular, you could maybe plant like three or two and put little labels in, but I keep it simple. Usually I just plant six of things because you get so many seeds, you know? Mm-hmm . So here's what I'll do. I will usually grab like a little twig or something like that, and I'll just make a tiny little depression in the middle here. You don't even have to do this. You could plant right on the surface and just put more soil on top. But to me, it's easier to put it just in a little hole here. As a rule of thumb, not every seed is guaranteed to sprout or it's called germinate. So I usually put two in a hole to guarantee it'll come up. But if you're planting six, you're going to get one. Yeah. So I would just put one in just to save your seed a little bit. Okay. Just pop one in. So these seeds are in. Do I need to like pat them down or something? What we'll do is we'll put these right here just so we remember for now, but I'd always label them. Mm-hmm . But yeah, what you'll do is you'll just cover just a touch. Just boop. Cover it up a little bit. Almost all seeds want to be buried. There's some and they're mostly flowers that do not want to be buried, but almost all can be buried like roughly a quarter inch or so down. Okay. We'll just plant out some other stuff. Like I'd say it's probably a little bit too early to grow cucumbers. And the reason why is because these ones take longer to sprout and they grow a bit slower. Cucumbers are a much faster plant. And so you start that in January, it's not really going to be summer. Yeah. Whereas this, it has a lot more time. It's fine. I'm scared of cucumbers anyway. So we'll save it on that. After that mishap. Yeah. Okay. Bok choy, if we could do that, that would be great. Let's do bok choy. So here, why don't you do that? And honestly, bok choy, you can harvest it young. It's baby bok choy. So you could plant a lot of this. Okay. You know, we could do like a couple of six cells of that. I might do three six cells. If you love, if you love bok choy, you could throw 18 bok choy down this row. No problem. All right. And while you do that, I'll get some of these onions in, because I don't see any onions in the garden yet. We're going to hold off on the squash in January, even though you see summer and winter squash on the names. That doesn't mean it's when you grow it. It means it's typically when you would eat it. So summer squash, you harvest young and you harvest and you eat it really quickly. So like this black beauty summer squash, you harvest it sort of young. Okay. A big old winter butternut, you actually let the squash fully mature. And the idea is you could store that over the winter. I see. Why it's called a winter squash. Got it. So you could eat it young too, but it's edible when it's older than the summer squash. There are quite a bit of seeds in the bok choy here. Yeah. You're going to get a lot on the bok choy. Still one per, you think? Yeah. I mean, one or two is fine. The germination of those is really fast and it's pretty consistent. The thing with bunching onions is the name tells you how you can plant them. Right? You don't really have to worry about like, you don't do like we did with the cabbage. Uh huh. Where you put like one every 18 inches. You can throw like three or four seeds in a hole and then grow it like that. Got it. Because they kind of want to grow next to one another. So then for watering the seeds, when and how often are we talking? So in the beginning, there's nothing really to water because there's no root. It doesn't need it beyond the fact that it needs some moisture to know it's time to start sprouting. Right? So what we'll do is we'll just give it a light amount of water. Mm-hmm. And this seedling mix that we used, which is just another type of soil mix, it's a little more fine. And so it takes water really well and it holds it really well. And so what'll happen is we'll water it in. We'll wait a couple of days. You'll start seeing some sprouts. All you need to do at that point is just make sure it's moist, but don't hit it every day. Okay. Because people will kill their seedlings all the time just by dumping water all over it. And there's not a lot of soil here. So there's not a lot of soil and look at that root will be like this big. Like what can it really take in? Got it. So as long as it's moist enough, you're in a good spot. And in terms of like where to place these while they're germinating. Yeah. Full sun? No, not really. They don't really need sun for the first three days because there's nothing. There's nothing that's above soil. Right. Exactly. There's no leaf, but you do want it to be in a warm spot. So if you just left it out here at night, that wouldn't be your best option. I'd put it in indoors, like 70 ish degrees. Like room temperature is going to be a good way to think about it. Okay. Because it, they are triggered by moisture and by heat. So unless the heat gets to a certain, unless the temperature gets to a certain degree, it will not, it generally will not sprout. So when they start to sprout, what you'll do is you'll move them to a sunny area and make sure they get like, I don't know, eight to 12 hours of sun a day. They could take even more than that, honestly. Or you could solve that by using a grow light, like a shop light even would be fine. You just put it really like really close. And then once they start to sprout after about two weeks, generally, because they're all different, right? Yeah. Generally, like with your lettuces and your spinach and your onions and all that, you could start tossing them in the garden. Okay. If conditions are good. Uh-huh. If they're not, or you want to wait like with your peppers or your tomatoes, those might take up to a month or so. Then you might want to pop them out of these trays and put them in like a smaller pot and let them keep growing. Gotcha. Until it's time to actually put them in the ground. Okay. But we might have to come back and do a transplant and planting session with Bri because, I don't know, I'm kind of excited to see how this goes. So was there anything in particular for flower seedlings versus vegetable seedlings that are, is that different? Or sometimes, yeah. So like take a look at the sweet peas. So everything's really going to be on the back. Yeah. And so if you take a look at the sweet peas on the left side, look, 15 to 20 days to emerge. Seed depth pressed lightly into the surface. So this is one inch seed depth. So I should be pushing those way down, way further into the seeds. So at the bottom of the seed, like the six cell, basically. I'd say about halfway down. Okay. And then like in this case, seed spacing, so in groups of 12 to 20 seeds. So flowers are way different than vegetables. They usually take longer. They're the flower seeds are like weirder looking and sometimes more delicate. And sometimes you plant like five in one place versus if you're growing like a cabbage, you just need one and it sprouts really fast. And it's, you know, it's kind of easy. So flower seed starting is super fun. It's just a little bit more complicated. Got it. There's more finicky. Basically. Yeah. All right, bro. What do you think? It looks fantastic. Stoked to start harvesting and just watch the growth. I'm stoked that you're in the club now. 10, 12 years later, my brother, the Epic brother, he's finally in guys. I finally got him. So all you need to do now is just water this in for a couple minutes each bed. Okay. Don't overwater it. They're just transplanting and just want to make them settled. Uh huh. And then keep an eye on those seedlings or the seeds that you started. And I want you to send me a video in a month and I'll show you that right now. All right. Hey Kev, wanted to give you an update on the garden progress so far. It's been about two and a half weeks and we've got some good growth and a lot of progress. So let's take a look. We've been getting a lot of rain here lately since everything was planted, which is great. The last bed full of soil still haven't planted there. We're waiting to get those seedlings in there. But when it comes to what we've done already doing well, everything's doing solid. We got the herbs here. We, we planted a grocery store bought basil and that one's doing all right. But everything else that we planted when we got these in is doing well. Coming over to the strawberries, which are doing fantastic. As you can see, runners are kind of split off everywhere. We've been keeping an eye on the flowers and getting those removed so we can get a lot of that growth. But overall, really happy with how the strawberries are doing right now. And then our cabbage is doing well as well. We're getting some bug problems here and we're keeping an eye on that. But beyond that, it's looking good. And then we got our leafy greens, our romaine, kale and spinach. Kale we'll have to take a closer look at is struggling a little bit maybe. Overall, really happy with how everything turned out, especially with adding those, the passion fruit and the trees. It's going to be really exciting to see those start coming in. And as we get into the summer months, see the strawberries start to blow up. Once we get the seeds planted, seeing those flourish is going to be really exciting. Really happy overall with this garden right now. As Kevin would say, good luck in the garden and keep on growing.