How to Choose Farm Fencing | Tractor Supply Co.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x5Fp_qq8PCw
Music
 I'm Mike. I'm a Tractor Supply team member. Today I'm going to help you select the right farm fencing for your needs. We'll talk about types of fencing and materials, then options for posts and gates. So let's get started. The type of fence and materials you need really depends on the job it needs to do. There are two primary types of farm fencing, perimeter and temporary. Perimeter fencing is usually considered permanent fencing and typically defines boundaries like pastures, property lines, etc. At Tractor Supply you'll find a variety of wire fence options that are great for creating boundaries and retaining animals. Warbed wire is a great choice for large cattle pastures but unsuitable for smaller livestock like goats or llamas. Woven wire fences come in a variety of styles and work well when used to surround hay fields, orchards or gardens. An electric wire fence actually carries an electrical current to keep livestock in and predators out. Welded wire fences have small openings, ideal for a variety of small animal enclosures. And poultry netting is a great option for chicken runs. Just keep in mind that it's not as durable. Temporary fencing is faster and easier to put up and take down. It's perfect for rotational grazing, movable poultry runs and lots of other temporary land uses. For many of these applications, plastic mesh is the right choice for property owners. It comes in a variety of colors and styles and is easy to handle and easy to store. If you're containing free-range poultry or have predator issues, consider electric netting. It's quick to install, easy to move and super effective. Now let's talk about posts. The type of fence you choose will help determine which posts you'll need. T-posts are usually for all types of wire fencing. They're made of heavy metal and shaped like a T for added strength. Treated wooden posts are sturdy and can last for decades. You can use these with barbed wire and woven wire. Step-in posts are for temporary fencing installations. Made of lightweight plastic or fiberglass, they're inexpensive and easy to use. Finally, for permanent fences, you'll need gates. Metal tube gates are great for fences surrounding animal pastures. They're strong, durable, and come in sizes from 4 to 16 feet wide. Wire-filled gates have a tight grid pattern that prevents small livestock from escaping while protecting them from potential predators. So, there are the keys to choosing the right fence. Identify the right kind of fence for your needs, select the posts, and choose your gates. Also, be sure to ask about discounts when you buy your fencing materials in bulk. If you have any questions, stop by your local tractor supply and ask a team member for help. the斯 headphones position. . . . . .