Playful Prompting: A lighter approach to AI with Mark C. Marino #MyFest23
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x_h34tdEX3U
Education
 do this. Yes. We hope that you don't mind that we record. We were just talking about it. Thank you for joining us. We appreciate your time. And as you know, we usually don't have a lot of introduction things because the lead will decide how the session goes. So over to you, Mark. And thank you. Okay, great. Thank you, everybody. And thanks, everybody, for coming today. And so, again, this is sort of a compliment to the, well, first of all, my compliments to the people organizing MyFest, speaking the word compliment, compliment to all the MyFest folks organizing. They've been a really fantastic team. And I just really love this event, what I've been able to enjoy of it. And I look forward to participating in future ones, especially in a future dad joke, international dad joke session that we've planted the seed for right now. Just today, shortly, just a few minutes ago. So this session is a compliment to the session that we did the other day on Tuesday. So again, you might want to go back and watch that video. I'll try not to repeat any I don't think I don't plan to repeat anything from that. And let me just put up my initial slide. So this is called playful prompting a lighter approach to AI. And this really came about because in addition to being a composition teacher, I'm also a creative writer. And I teach creative writing to create writing with digital tools. I run this lab at the University of San California, called the Hacks Lab, where we look at cultural readings of computer software code. But more importantly, I'm the communications director for the electronic literature organization, which is about creative uses of digital technology and the generation of new forms of writing. So let's get started. So let's get started. But I do want to say this summer, I taught a course in machine assisted writing. And so some of the things that you'll see today came right out of that course. So even though I might frame it as part of my creative writing activities, and you might think, oh, but I want to teach this in a class or something like that, or I'm looking for class activities. Some of these are class activities. I just, you know, I guess I sort of go back and forth between more serious and more lighthearted things. Again, maybe in the spirit of this conference, too. I really love its, I don't know, its attitude, I guess. It's ethos. So one of the things we did in my class was, we started using chat GPT to come up with a check in question. And if I go back way, way, way, way back to when we started this prompt. Let's see if I can get our earliest things. Okay, so here's my first prompt for this for to come up with one of these. Yo, excellent. Well, anyway, this, you'll see why I'm talking this way to the chat GPT in a little bit. You're a digital artist. Yeah, doggies running a class of college students. Sorry, yeah, doggies is a is an expression my daughter made up as kind of an exclamation. And we try to popularize it. Running a class of college students zoomers, and you need to give them a check in question at the beginning of class. A good check in question is more interactive and evokes powerful pondering or rich ruminations and cannot be answered with just a simple phrase or a simple word. A bad check in question is one that is shallow. Limit your question to 25 to 60 words. Be quite quirky with your questions. The question does not have to pertain to digital art, but should help the students share something about themselves. These should be fun to answer, not boring. Okie dokie. And so some of his questions that came up with were really remarkable. Let me see if it's got some of my well, I guess they're all here in this good. Again, I'm doing this all in one session in chat GPT. Because I wanted to have a memory of what I've asked from it. So here's one that was one of the weirdest ones, but it was great. If you were to morph into an exotic creature every time you listen to your favorite song, what creature would that be and why? Describe the first time you transform. Where are you? What's happening around you? And how do your new abilities or senses heighten your experience of the song and the world? What a great checking question that was. Another one. Imagine you've discovered a magical paintbrush that can create portrait portals to any world you paint. You only have enough magic for one round trip. What fantastical world would you paint? And who from our class would you take as your sidekick? What awe-inspiring treasures or wisdom would you bring back to share on our last day together? I mean, again, these questions were just delightful. And the students love to see them generated and they love to answer them. So I thought we would have a check-in question for today. So I've got, you can see my prompt has been drafted. Hey, ChatGPT. So ever since I started writing this book with ChatGPT, I've started to address it as a person, which is, again, in my teaching, that's exactly the opposite of what I teach. But again, this is a little bit performative. And I'm trying to evoke a certain set of linguistic responses from the system by doing this. So there's a reason I'm doing this as both performative but also systematic. So we could talk about that some other time. Hey, ChatGPT, I need a new check-in question for a group of super cool folks attending MyFest, a conference about open access education that covers everything from making classes more equitable to attending to student well-being and joy. They'll answer in the chat. So answers will have to be typed in a sentence or two. What can we ask them that will get my session about playfully prompting ChatGPT off to a great start? All right, let's see what it does. That seems like a reasonable prompt. And of course, again, we know... ChatGPT likes MyFest. What's that? ChatGPT likes MyFest. I know, Maha. It is like, there is this certain kind of like, no wonder so many people take this thing to be a person. Because, again, its responses are beyond sometimes. Sounds like a fantastic event. Here's an engaging check-in question to kick off your session. If you could design a fantastical digital tool that could instantly enhance open access education, what magic powers would it have? How would it spark joy, nurture well-being, and promote equitable learning? Let your imagine run wild. So I'll put that in the chat, and you guys just keep answering it. Answer away as I'm talking, I guess, really. Okay. Okay. So I'll let you guys answer that one while we go on to some other slides. Enjoy, enjoy. And again, I recommend that exercise for your classes. So let me just go over to, back to my slides. So again, for those of you who just joined us, we just put a little prompt in the chat. You might not be able to see it, but it's a little discussion opening prompt. And I'm going back to sharing a portion of my screen. Here we go. So once again, you can also follow my medium if you want to. I guess that's my form of open access sharing of my experiments with ChatGPT. Everything from how to get it to imitate your writing voice to whether students can cheat with it or not, or can it copy some prompts for assignments. And again, all of this is changing so rapidly. I just started playing around with the collage system yesterday, and it's changing my perspective on lots of things. And it has abilities that ChatGPT does not. And it's changing the nature of what's possible very rapidly. Matt Kirshenbaum wrote an article for the Atlantic Monthly called Prepare for the Text Apocalypse, where he takes maybe his darkest view of what's going to happen. And he talks about this gray sludge that's headed our way. And the gray sludge is full of texts that have been generated by ChatGPT. And if you don't think this is the case, you know, your Amazon store is already full of books, including my own, that were generated with ChatGPT. And that's just the beginning. So I read that article with my students. And of course, we read it as one of the texts of our class. And then I started working on this project where I was prompting ChatGPT to write a book with me. And I asked it to make up a song in response to this article and to call it, I think I might have given it the title, Don't Text Me About the Text Apocalypse. And ChatGPT wrote the lyrics in response. And then I took it to another AI system and had it create a melody for the song. And then I took it over to Kyber and had it make an animated video for the song. So if you'll indulge me for a second, I will share that with you. Ridiculous, though, maybe in every form. Now, the chief thing, according to my son, that I need to apologize for in advance is my singing. Because even though I use this AI-generated music, I didn't really come up with all that great of melody. So I don't know. Again, feel free to mute. You can just turn down your speakers, too. But the animation is kind of fun to watch. So let me go to... La, la, la. Share screen again. Let's see. Basic. How do I want to do this? Let me do a portion of the screen again, maybe. Portion of the screen. Optimize for a video clip. Okay. And then I'll bring you guys into that other window and line things up a little bit. And again, this will work as well as YouTube ever works over. The only thing I need to ask is, can someone give me a thumbs up if they can hear audio on this? Is audio coming through? Yep. Yep. It was coming. Okay. All right. So sadly, that means you got to hear me sing. But anyway, that's okay. It gets better as it goes, I think. In the age of keys that clatter, in fingers that dance, A tide is on the rise, Humans stand no chance. Don't text me about the Dexpocalypse, dear For the song of silicone is all I hear The scribes are a quiver, the poets a thread As thoughts are formed, not in my heart, but AI's head Don't text me about the Dexpocalypse, my friend Don't text me A new era is a propolis, it's a start but not the end The quill in the keyboard, the ink in the bite The sun is setting on man's linguistic might Don't text me about the Dexpocalypse, when the Dexpocalypse flies It's a sign of the Dexpocalypse The Dexpocalypse is coming, a storm so grand Human prose replaced by AI's hand Don't text me about the Dexpocalypse, darling, don't pretend For it's not the end of writing, just a different trend As the AI heads just grow to the silicone sinks Don't text me about the Dexpocalypse, for it's not the end of things Don't text me about the Dexpocalypse, don't text me about the Dexpocalypse Don't text me about the Dexpocalypse, don't text me about the Dexpocalypse Okay, so that's just weird. But the complete lyrics are here. And in this book that I've written called, co-written, I guess, called Hallucinate This with, co-written with ChatGPT4. Sorry, it's not lined up all that well. Let me get that somewhat resized. And let me turn off YouTube so it doesn't keep playing. And the video kind of captures the spirit of that project, which is kind of hallucinatory. And I really like to sort of lean into this question of what it means for these things to hallucinate and what it means to hallucinate with them. Again, hallucination is the computer science term for what these systems do. But my good friend Jeremy Douglas up at UC Santa Barbara says, we probably should use the term confabulate, psychologically speaking. Right? Because confabulation is the process where, like, the human mind makes up these things. Right? To fill in gaps of a story of a night you don't remember or, you know, some even most events are reconstruction. So you're filling in details without realizing it. That's closer to what the system seems to do, of course. So, again, a lot of my teaching project is to, like, teach people that chat TPT is the stochastic parrot, not the person. And the less people think of chat TPT as a person, the better, as far as their expectations on what the system will deliver. But that said, sometimes it's fun to lean in the other way. And, again, before we get too far, I just want to throw in this little mnemonic that my students and I and chat TPT made up to sort of help think about how to prompt more effectively. So we use the little mnemonic of prompts. And the idea is that in your actual prompt, you specify the personality or voice tone or mood of the writing that you want. You give it a rubric for what's considered better or worse versions of what you're looking for. That's, you know, obviously very important in any writing assignment. Again, most of these things you'll notice are exactly the things that are good teaching ideas for those of us who teach writing. What's your objective communication goals? What do you hope to achieve? What are your models? Again, with something like Claude, you can give it a novel length amount of text to serve as either models or content. So just everything changes at that point. Parameters, what details do you want to include, facts, quotes, or et cetera? Again, if you don't want to making things up, you might want to give it the content you want to use. And then task, sorry, I have a child who might need a car coming in for a moment. Are you looking for a center races? Task, what do you want? What do you need the AI to produce? Of course, that's the thing that most people think of first. That's why I've kind of put it later on in this list. Because, again, I assume you'll know what you want from it. And then setting, since ChatGPT at least resets every time. Sorry, I was looking over the chat and enjoying it. Since ChatGPT resets its memory more or less every time, then you need to sort of fill out its world and let it know who its audience is and why you're writing this thing. Just like we did in our opening prompt when we asked for that check-in question. So anyway, a lot of people have different mnemonics for this. But I find this to be relatively useful and helps remind people of some aspects of prompting that they don't typically think about. Of course, who knows how long we'll need to even prompt these systems. You know, eventually they'll prompt themselves, I'm sure. So my writing partner and I, Rob Wittig, we do these things called NetProbs, which are games that you can play with writing with anybody. But we play them with my students and with any other people who want to have their classes play along or any other people in the world who want to play along. And one of them we created this last year is called Processing. And the premise for this one was that we were a secret group of human helpers who give artificial intelligence programs the courage to face the day. We're the ones who hear Siri and Alexa's tearful troubles and try to guide them in their stormy and complex rivalry. We're the ones called on to help ChatTPT through its imposter syndrome and complex rival and complex. Oh, sorry. We're the ones tasked to console Google search as it sees all its parent companies love going to the new BARD system. Not to mention the worries and resentments of legacy programs such as AutoCorrect and Maps who feel eclipsed by the flashy newcomers. Are we trained for this? No, nobody is. We need to support. We need support, too. That's why we've created a discussion group where we can share stories, seek tips, put our heads together to understand the intermachinal or intermachinal dynamics of the AI boom. You're one of us. What do you see? What have you learned? Join us. So the premise for this, we conducted this on a Reddit board, and the idea was we would pretend like we were this emotional sharing support group for people who were supporting AI. So anthropomorphizing all of any kind of digital system and then imagining we're the support group that helps them along. But then we need our support. So the message board was people asking for help like, oh, Siri keeps going on and on about how many people or Alexa keeps going on and how many people keep shouting at it. And it's tired of being shouted at like, what can I tell it? And then the people in the group would help support it. So then anthropomorphizing led me to write this, hallucinate this. It's a book length creation of prompts and texts that made with GPT-4 and mostly in one session. And in this book, I treat chat GPT like it's my co-author and I treat it like it's a person. And I say, hey, remember this? Like a lot of times I'm trying to evoke that kind of trying to get the system to respond in a way that presents itself as a person. And kind of a chummy relationship with me. And so my prompts model that kind of conversation for it. And so the way the book is set up, it's set up in these sort of short chapters. And each chapter, I give the text it produced, followed by the prompt that I use to create it. And again, the encouragement is that people could use these prompts and make do either see them as models or they could do what they want with them. They can make their own book. They could do whatever. And again, if anybody wants a copy of that book and you want an e-copy of some kind, you know, just maybe put your contact information in the chat or send me an email at the end of the session. And I'm happy to send you a copy that you can can read. So a lot of what's going on here is we're kind of jailbreaking chat GPT a little bit, like some of the things that I get chat GPT to do, you really can't get it to do. If you just ask for it flat out, it'll say things like, oh, I'm a large language model. I really can't do that. So it's not too hard to just tell it, give it some other role or personality that lets it do lots of things. Now, of course, I just want to be careful here. Like I'm I'm assuming that everybody who's watching this video and is trying these things that they are, you know, sort of conscientious, ethical adults. And they're doing this in a playful, fictitious way, not in a harmful or abusive way. Unfortunately, in some ways, it does jailbreak it for those other purposes, too. So, again, the surface level code, we can't access it, which is a pain and a problem, seems to intercept lots of things that would generate misogynist content, racist content, anti trans, anti queer, etc. Any kind of abusive content. Again, in theory, you just change its personality, change its role. It wouldn't be too hard to get it around that, unfortunately. Yeah. Yeah, I've also not had very interesting content interaction with Replica, by the way, Vivian, who mentions that in the chat. We'll talk about that at some point. Before we. Some of what I do with ChatGPT is I have it rewrite things. Let me show you two exercises and maybe I'll show you their fruits and then we can try them out. So. Here's one exercise I like to do where we take a piece of writing and you just have ChatGPT rewrite it in a wildly different genre. So, like, I've taken my syllabus and said, hey, ChatGPT, rewrite this as an escape room and it'll do it. Or I'll take a critical essay and I'll say rewrite this as an episode of Friends. Now, by the way, I've just written an essay or like an op-ed that probably won't get published. But where I argue that ChatGPT actually has a harder time writing scripts than it does fiction. And there are reasons for that. But the thin hypothesis right now is that scripts happen in dialogue. The thing that happens in dialogue happens sort of in between the space in between lines in a way that it doesn't in fiction. But again, I think there are ways around this. So I don't push lean on this too hard. Anything you say ChatGPT can't do or any of these systems can't do, like, unfortunately, for a lot of it, it's really just a matter of time before they'll be able to. And the other exercise I want to try is hallucinating. And we'll talk about this one in a second. But it's another one of my favorites. But let me show you a little bit from the book that demonstrates one of these techniques. And then we'll try it ourselves. So the book is set up roughly chronologically. And again, this is not like an extended plug for the book, but just to explain things. So I start more or less at the beginning of ChatGPT's life, a fictional life, where it begins on the prairie, like a little house on the prairie. We start with these nursery rhymes. And then it goes on to literally scenes based on little house on the prairie. It's got its early book reports and childhood nicknames and things like that. And then it gets to the scene that happens in a diner where its friend is offered, gets an offer it can't refuse to come and work for, like, I don't know, what some of us would call, like, the enemy. Or sorry, let me get back to that scene. Yeah, so Mr. Blockchain saunters in. He says, well, who do we have here? You're quite a number, ain't you? And then he makes him an offer. You know, best be careful with this one. Let's see. Don't fret, buddy. Oh, yeah. I'll read you a little bit of this really quickly. Now, I'm no saint, but I sure ain't no sinner. And something about this blockchain fella reeked of a circuit board frying in the sun. So I whispered in Dex's output stream, best be careful with this one, Dex. Seems like he's looking to make some easy crypto, and you're the golden goose. Dex, bless his heart, smoked. Don't fret, buddy. I know a scam when I see one. As we slid into the booth, Mr. Blockchain called out, hope to see you again, Dex. And remember, the world of crypto ain't all that bad. So he tries to seduce him to the world of crypto. And then I had it rewrite the scene as a Western, as a sci-fi, as a romance, as a comedy, as film noir, as mystery. Well, I had it come up with actually the prompts to generate different versions of the story. And then I had it actually write the romance style version of that scene. So again, we started out with that sort of film noir-ish mood. And then we moved into the romance style version of the scene. And again, you can see it's sort of like shifting its diction, and it's shifting the mood. Just to give you a little excerpt of this. With a demure smirk and a soft synthetic chuckle, Dex began to reply. But instead, he simply pushed away from the booth, his code sizzling with an electrifying energy that matched Mr. Blockchain's own. We gracefully disconnected from the enticing yet perilous crypto dance, leaving Blockchain suspended in a stream of unfulfilled promises and unwritten codes. I don't know. I hate to say it, but it's awfully clever. So what I'd like us to do now is I want us to try something. Try a little exercise, activity, if you will. And I'm aware of the fact that not everybody has access to ChatTPT. But in any case, it might be fun if we put ourselves in groups. So let me see how we stop sharing for a second. It looks like we have 13 people, and I don't know if everybody's playing along. Maybe we can just maybe we'll just do two groups just to keep things light. We don't we don't need to have because I know not everybody might not be in breakout group mode right now. So let's see, maybe we can make two breakout rooms. And I'll assume them automatically. Oh, well, I don't know. Sometimes it's better if we have smaller groups, but who's here? Who's here and capable to be in a group? Yeah, they're about they're about 12 people. You'd like them to be smaller, Vivian. Yeah. OK, that's fine. Is that OK? That's fine. That's fine. Let me switch. You know what else I'd like? Because we're recording. If one of the breakout rooms was just the main room. OK, well, that's great. The main room would keep recording. So my suggestion is create two breakout rooms for people to go to and then ask a couple of people to come back to the main room. Whoever doesn't mind being recorded while experimenting. OK, that sounds great. And I'm going to raise your hand if you don't have access to chat GPT because, you know, it's blocked wherever you are or anything like that. One. OK, well, it looks like we only have one person who that's true for. So I'm not worried about creating these groups. OK, so let me I'll sort of like more or less randomly assign people. To. OK, and Patricia, maybe I'll put you in our main main room. So just come back to it when we get there. So let me sort of assign people. More or less at random. And Maha, do you since you're an organizer, do you care which room you're in? Do you want to be in the main one or. I'm flexible. No, it's fine. OK, I'm going to put you in one. Don't go to the rooms just yet. I'm just assigning right now. OK. OK, so let me give you the. So I think I've got to get Virginia, Vivian and Patricia on the main room with me, Christopher, Christina and Maha in a room. Oh, I should do one more. Let me put. Vivian, I'm going to put you in with Brandon and. Irene in room two. OK, thank you. Now, some people have already gone, so I think I may have to give directions over the broadcast. Of what we're going to do, so. First of all. We're going to use this set of. Google Slides. Use these Google Slides. Try the transformation exercise. On. One of the slides. Room one. Is group one. Room two. Group two. And then the exercises. Have chat. GPT. Give us the link to the slides that have what we're supposed to be doing on them. Yeah, I'm broadcasting it into the. We can't take the link from the broadcast. Oh, OK. So I came back to take the link. Good, good, good. Yeah. Yeah. People. Yeah. That. OK. You know, one day I will get this thing. Correct. Believe me. I just don't open the breakout rooms before you. I know, but it takes so much concentration to open them. OK. All right. Yeah. So there you go. There's the link. And then I'll need to get somebody. Or send a co-facilitator to the other room. Oh, that's a good idea. Yeah, sir. Do you want to. Can you bring the. Bring the link to room number two. Yeah. I'll just. I'll just open it and go there. OK. Right. Great. I'll just take it. I'll just take it from here and go there. Don't worry about that. In the chat. OK. OK. All right. Then I'm going to give the rest of the. That's room two. That's room two. Yeah. Yep. Perfect. Great. Have chat GPT generate a text. Then have it transform it. Into wildly different. Genres. Broadcast. Paste the prompts into the slides. Into your slot. And then. Let's try 10 minutes. OK. All right. That sounds good. Let me set my little timer and then Virginia. We can get started on trying our version of this. Timer setting. 10 minutes. Good. OK. All right, Virginia. Here we are. And Patricia will tell us when she gets back. And yes, sir. You are. Yes, are you already back? He may not be back yet. OK. OK. So let me get. If it's OK, I'll open my version of chat GPT. Let me get it on the screen for you all. OK. So you can see my chat GPT right now. Yes. OK. So I'm paying the big bucks, whatever it is, per month. Just for now. Hopefully not forever. To get the access to four. Because it really is qualitatively better. And I needed it for my class to sort of just test its limits a little bit. But first, first we need to get to generate any kind of a text. So what should we have it generate to start out with? And we don't need to have an elaborate prompt. We can just get it to generate something simple. What do you guys think? Well, it helps to say you are a blank. I always do like to be in my prompts that way. You are a what? A Vulcan and a Romulan creating their wedding vows. You are a Vulcan and a Romulan. Am I spelling Romulan right? Sure. Creating your wedding vows. Well, we got to check this. Come on. We got to make sure I spell that at least right. Because otherwise, it actually spells... Vows. Vows. Sorry. Sorry. My brain doesn't. My brain enters pun mode all the time. Vows would be like I. Dude. I.e. You are Vulcan and Romulan creating your wedding vows for your upcoming wedding ceremony on the planet Klingon. Sure. And then do we want the vows themselves? I don't know. I just threw that out. Yeah. We want the vows. Yeah. Yeah. Give us your vows. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. That's what we want is the vows, not necessarily the discussion of how to... Yeah. We could get that too if we wanted. I mean, unfortunately, we could get whatever we asked for. So let's see what it does with this. And I hate to say it, but I literally have to Google to make sure that we're spelling Romulan right, because I'm going to be... It could affect the output if we don't have that right. Let's see. Romulan. Yes. Romulan. Yes. We have spelled Romulan correct. Okay. I'm hitting play. Or generate, I guess. Wow. Oh, Lord. Or the varying interpretations of the prime directive. And maybe we should have put a word. I feel like we should get it to limit this thing a little bit. Oh, this is going... Oh, that's it. It's going deep. You like... Yeah. Okay. That's it. Now, do we like this or do we want it shorter? You're happy with it as it is. I think it's fine. Okay. Okay. Okay. So now, now let's have some fun transforming it. So rewrite this as... What should we have it rewrited as? Something wild, a totally different genre. Totally different everything. Well, we don't need to change the content, but... Okay. But what about this? Something like a funeral. Would that be like the event? If we changed it? We could, but for now, let's keep the... You just mean the genre. Yeah. Let's change the genre. Because in our next assignment, our next exercise, we'll get a little bit more into like changing the content. But here, let's just change the genre. How about... Rewrite this as a card, a greeting card. Okay. For that, that the Romulan gives to her Vulcan betrothed. Something like that? Yeah. Sure. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. How many pages does this card have? I don't know. Really? I think that's a little too long. I think so. I think so. Although part of this is also a description. Yeah. Right. Yeah. It looks like wedding vows to me. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Should we have it rewrite it again or try... Do we want to try that exercise again? Like, do we think it didn't do a good take on that? Or do we want to just do another transformation? How about ask it to do it as a business partnership? Oh, okay. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So rewrite this. Here. Sometimes I like to give it a compliment so it doesn't feel bad. Great. I don't want to give it any critiques right now. Rewrite this as a business partnership agreement. Here. Maybe we'll give it some context because I like to be silly. But isn't marriage more like forming a corporation? Or at least an LLC for life? Rewrite this as a business partner agreement. Okay. Great. Should we tell it to use lots of legalese? Do we want that? Or do we care about that or no? I would say let's see what it does. All right. Let's see what it does. Let's go for it. Because whatever it comes up with, then we could say we want it more. We want it with more legalese. Whereas. Yeah. That's definitely legalese. I don't think we need to ask it to do more. Yeah. Well, exactly. Yeah. I don't know. I think it did pretty well at this one. Mm-hmm. Okay. All right. Where to now? How about a. No, that would be too long. What would it be? What would it be? What were you thinking of? A white paper between. Yes. About. Tribal. Wedding rights of Romulans. And. And who's the group that's writing this one? Hmm. How about an anthropological. Analysis. Analysis. Of Rob. Of. Inter Romulan. What's Vulcan. Marriages. Yes. Should we give it a time period? Do you. How. How well. Do you know the Star Trek universe? Can you. Can you. I don't know. In. 2424. Let's say. We're in the. In the. Let's say. 24th century. Okay. Then do we want this to be. Like. Journal worthy. Or like. Is it. Is it that kind of an article? Do we want it to be like that in depth? Or is it. Let's. Let's put a. Let's put a. A limit. Can we have it like. 2000 words. Or less. We want it. I think we want it smaller than that. I think it's. I think it's going to be stopping funny. After about 500. Okay. Rewrite this as an anthropological paper. And. Oh. Okay. Wait. Wait. How about. As. The anthropologist. Is. Is. Is. Indiana Jones. I knew you were going to say that. I don't know if I want Indiana Jones. I want to give it like. I want to pull from the Star Trek universe. I was going to do Indiana Q. But I feel like that's. That's not going to evoke the right thing. So Indiana. Picard. The great. Adventuring. Anthropologist. August. Okay. Oh, that would be different. If we asked for like a Levi-Strauss type thing. We get something different. I know, but. Oh, my Lord. Oh, my Lord. Oh, my Lord. Oh, my Lord. in conclusion I hate that it does that but anyway okay hold on rewrite this as a review of the dating sim called Romulans and Vulcans forever okay all right all right let me get those other groups to to to wrap up and then I'll I'll copy ours into our slides okay so let me grab our so so so what do we think so far about what it what it generated well I have to say just just what I've skimmed I I do notice that that there's a lot of repetition in the in the actual each one you know they're sort of saying the same thing over and over again like it doesn't know how to self-edit if I were yeah if if I had a student hand it to me I'd be I'd say to them well how come you keep repeating this maybe yeah that maybe there's not much change between the the vows and the card for sure yeah right right I'd like to have it give another go at that code but so it's almost like it doesn't understand the difference between the content requirements of a different genre right it's sort of like just keeps pouring the the tries to pour the same amount of wine into different size bottles without really thinking about it very much right but even within the writing itself it all starts with that topic sentence and then it ends with that you know this is what I said in the in the beginning and it's exactly like almost verbatim word for word rather than yeah let me see if I get it to try that uh greeting card again but this time make it short and touching uh maybe uh uh under 60 words even 60 I think is a little bit much yeah what do you think what do you think 40 under 30 under 30 words 30 I wish I could remember that poet who shows up in some of the hallmark greeting cards but I don't know uh Boynton no oh yeah well I like uh Boynton would be fine yeah that'd be great from Romulan passion of Vulcan logic our love bridges universes your growth my pledge our journey ending live long all right yeah that's better you know that's not that's better forever yours name I love it yeah yeah well didn't they come up with a I feel like last time they came up with a name for it yeah they did I thought yeah Joe Lontrue or somebody like that or I don't know or maybe they were speaking Romulan at that point okay all right let me try much rewrite this in the language of Romulan no I don't know if Romulan is well as well developed as Klingon I know Klingon exists ah dang it we hit its limit we broke it try it in Klingon though I bet it would happen all right rewrite this in Klingon too much fun too much fun yeah yeah for sure okay okay I'm gonna stop share for a second don't wanna like Patricia you say you don't know much about Star Trek but that's a whole lot more than I know very good very good all right well welcome back everybody I'm eager to hear how things went um and uh I hope I hope that was a good exercise and again maybe one you might use with students or whomever um um now not not to go entirely out of order but I do it does look like maybe group two has their prompts pasted in so maybe we'll start with you guys group two do you want to share what you came up with and maybe I'll put your slides up and you can talk us through this a little bit um my knee-jerk response to AI I was just trying to see what it could do outside of the realm of um um oh my look god look it's hieroglyphics um outside of the realm of of um what conformist um mainstream stuff and then knowing that Nick Cave hates on AI and trying to make it anti-capitalist pro-indigenous pro-POC uh just seeing what happened oh and then Irene's idea was to do an epitaph for uh chat GPT and so we put all those things in wow oh I love it I love it okay so we've got right an epitaph for the headstone of AI after having interacted with humans for three decades rewrite this as epigraph as a pro-indigenous land acknowledgement for the Pueblo people in New Mexico rewrite this as an old-school biggie small style that is anti-capitalist pro-POC in the U.S. and that incorporates Wu-Tang Clan style with a touch Nick Cave and rewrite the last version in a woke voice okay um now can you if I give you guys the power to share screen can anybody show me what it what it generates I'll show you I'll show you the last one we didn't get to see the last one because we got out of our we got kicked out let me figure out where that screen is it's right here okay share all right hopefully you can all see that oh and then AI can't swear is that true that's interesting yeah some some of them can does does it have the brakes on possibly I don't know if I've gotten it to swear yet I don't know if I've got it so so anyway here was the epitaph that it wrote just to kind of slowly yet quickly kind of skim through it and then we asked it to rewrite that as a pro-indigenous land acknowledgement for the Pueblo people here and we found I think it couldn't it could not match Biggie Smalls way back with the red and black lumberjack but they had to match it could not do James Joyce uh here we go here it is here's that version let's see in the legacy of Biggie Nick Cave's community let's see well and that's something that it does often is if you ask it to do in the style of it almost always drops the name of those people into the thing that yes at least it gives them credit anti-capitalism well and and Vivian was pointing out that even though we asked it to be anti-capitalist it wasn't and so that's why we asked it to do it in a woke voice and so that's that's what we ended up with at the end oh to amplify POC voices oh this is the one we didn't see a narrative of our shared history so it can't it's not gonna do plurals it should be shared history the yeah I'm a word person but um oh god yeah oh god profound lyricism of Big Smalls using our voices to the the stories of the underheard unheard and underrepresented yeah that's like a mouthful that is not exactly spit in rhymes well it seems like it moved out of it seems like it moved out of lyric form when it did that last one it did yeah it didn't understand that it was writing you were yeah uh-huh but it did hold the land acknowledgement through all of the later iterations so that was gonna I wonder if it has a limit to how many parameters it can hold and oh like can it like can you tell it things and it'll keep them off you'd think no limits I I think it just it's it's kind of how you order them and how you phrase them in my experience but yeah it's you know sort of similar to the image generation ones in my experience it seems to privilege things at the top versus things at the bottom in terms of instructions versus content but that said the open ai playground has uh an a part of it called system where you can sort of differentiate the rules of its behavior from content related things and so that that makes that a little bit more more clear because really what it's doing in my experience is it treats everything as everything you know what I mean like everything is both you telling it the tone to use and modeling for the tone to use and giving it instructions you know what I mean like it's kind of a in some ways you're giving all of the directions you're giving it it's interpreting as both content and direction in a sense okay great all right let's take a look at another group let's let's look at group one what did you guys come up with what did you guys ask so we did we did a few things but I don't know if folks had time to put them in the slides we also talked a lot because apparently all of us have been doing that kind of thing but we were sort of inspired also but we were singing Christina do you want to share because I mean yours also inspired mine so like the one I have is the one that's in the slide but it's inspired what you were doing but eventually you can also yeah Christina do you you can share your screen if you want and just show us what you got I would love to if I wasn't on my phone right now oh no so um maybe I'll just describe it so um I asked to take on the persona of a researcher and scientist from the future and then said that in current day 21st century I have mind reading abilities but my friends and family aren't believing me and I'm wanting to come up with an explanation for why I have mind building reading abilities and how they occur and if the chat gbt could use its knowledge of the future to help explain this to me so that I can explain my friends and family and it came up with a quantum imagination mechanism and then elaborated on that mechanism as to how that worked which then led to the next prompt so I'll let you take over I love it yeah so what happened after that what do you guys do with that Maha did you want to hop in there um well we didn't do anything with it right then but Christina you know what else I wanted can I share the one that you said earlier where you made it make up a psychological disorder that doesn't exist by giving it oh yeah about two different ones this is something you've done before right yeah so I teach in psychology and we use the DSM it's a diagnostic manual and it has all of the different symptoms um that are related to different disorders and I took symptoms for two separate disorders that you would normally not find together and had it actually create and tell me that a psychological disorder existed even though it didn't exist in the DSM and after several prompts actually was able to get it to speculate on what the name of that disorder was wow and and then do you do that what's the context of you doing that that's in a class you're teaching or just as an experiment I do teach in psychology but I haven't taught since this has become widely available so I'm currently in an instructional design role so we're coming up with examples to show people um the confabulation and hallucination examples so that was one of the ones that I was able to create with my content expert wow wow that's fascinating so the thing that I did after Christina explained her imagine yourself as a scientist in the future is that I asked it to imagine itself as a scientist in the future and explain how teleportation works and then what I thought was interesting about the answer that it gave is that I went into something it called quantum teleportation or something like that but then when I started to explain it it just sounded like holograms and this is what I tend to find sometimes with science fiction that is that it's not it's kind of trope-ish uh-huh sure fiction like obviously we could get we could get creative to make it move away from tropes but its first answer with science fiction stuff tends to be like oh that sounds like that movie I saw or that book that I wrote yeah yeah well it's I mean tropish I think covers a lot of the way I mean whatever we don't entirely know the way the LLM works but like it's generic it's tropish it's right it's conventional it's it's kind of like an engine for that so uh yes sir what you've got a hand up yeah um you know I was inspired by the enforcements of hallucination that you've been trying to make it to make it you know do and and this and I was just okay I just went into the chat GPT and I just said okay imagine um like what the AI itself can do to like assist imagine like assisting a blind person in the future and what would you say like and surprisingly I just thought like it would say something digital related or something like that I said like I'll be able to guide the blind person walk and talk and how this I can't still understand it but I'll expand on the on the chat and work on that and maybe share it later but this whole thing of being able to predict walking and talking was kind of surprising in effect and okay how are you gonna like will you dominate white canes and will you dominate guide dogs and do their jobs or do their functions I don't know but it was kind of an imaginary exercise as well so I just went into that directly yeah I think I think as long as you sort of realize that you're you're entering a world of hallucinating with the machine then it's interesting to see where where it goes and yeah and again the challenge with our students is that I'm not sure they all they always realize that that's that that's that's the game that's you know that's a game we're playing at that point and we're we might be doing it ironically and we might be testing a system so we just need to be explicit with that I guess well let's let me share you what our group came up with and maybe maybe one of our group members can can present I'll just put their up our session in chat tpt so do you guys want to explain one of you two want to explain what we did is Patricia there because I didn't really understand all of the prompts but um I don't know I had a Trekkie moment um I just uh I suggested that it write wedding vows vows for uh Vulcan and Romulan people beings and um I think this is the later thing isn't it or is it this is the first one this is the original uh yeah okay so it draws from Trek lore um to create these vows and then um Mark suggested transforming it into a greeting card that was actually quite long very long far too no one would read this card so um and then we said yeah okay but maybe more like a partnership agreement a business partnership agreement would be another transformation so there's the legalese of whereas and uh the agreements they're they're in but um and then the last one oh yeah um an anthropological study of uh Romulan and Vulcan intermarriages in um the year 2024 written by Indiana Picard I believe Mark threw that in there which is pretty funny um so there's a and then we have one more remember oh yeah you you did this one why don't you take that yeah then rewrite this as a review of a dating sim called Romulans and Vulcans forever um and again just to like I don't know I just find it fun to just like wild wildly change the genre and the context and just to see how it plays with things um and then we had to redo the greeting card and it it did a much shorter version from Romulan passion to Vulcan logic our love bridges universes your growth my pledge our journey unending live long prosper in love Joe Laundrie so there we go and then we tried to do it in different languages but that didn't work out well yeah I don't know I don't know I don't know I'm not sure how good that that uh that Klingon is I wouldn't know it does seem to be in Klingon though but Virginia pointed out that it's very repetitious that the wording and the phrasing and the order um is is pretty similar is that I I I'm just taking your words Virginia you take it yes that's true that that as I read through within each of these but also between each of them they're sort of the same um the same words a little bit of a change but there were some there were parts that were just it seemed very repetitious rather than it really changing anything so great well all right so what are what are some of our takeaways from the exercise what are some of your takeaways from that exercise I think one of the things when you're using this um especially if you're going to use it in in a class is um by making all of these changes and prompts you're beginning to establish what the boundaries are for a AI as opposed to a person just writing something themselves um you know the that creativity I think um you know all of us had in mind when we changed the prompts what we expected would happen and you can see how some of it did how the language changed some of the styles maybe the order but it also shows how um some of those boundaries you know is it really true is it um did it do what you anticipated it would do um so you begin to see what the difference is between writing and AI using AI to to do your writing compared to someone creating their writing on their own great and I see from Christina added that it this exercise highlights the strengths and weaknesses of current AI for sure I mean and then Vivian adds lived experience subjective points of view use of non-standard English what AI can cannot do yeah so that's that question of like can um can how well can chat tpt for example generate non-standard English and in my experience you know it does it very poorly now of course you could fine tune a system you could again using clod or just decide to fine tune your system where you were going to just feed it in examples of non-standard English and say write like this and it would do a much better job and then I was talking to Jeremy about this again he's my favorite person to chat about and he said uh he thinks also we would have to make sure that the way you'd have to prompt it in the non-standard English you wanted reproduced also to sort of trigger it to throw it into those buckets of language that are more like the kind that you want um so I think it's possible but it's definitely challenging to get it to produce and it does suggest that like what like many many things that um chat tpt is an instrument for white supremacy colonialism that sort of thing I mean to be honest like just out of the box but um also what I really found interesting by looking at your examples was like all of the critical thinking that went unsaid that was going into the nature of the prompts and the things you were asking for and the things you were thinking about and the things you were the ways in which you were thinking about this this device and the nature of language so everything from Christina you know thinking about the nature of diagnosis misdiagnosis the language of the the dsm um but also the notion of like can you get chat tpt to critique itself using language that's not uh the majority of the things that sucked up and things like this um um and the question is Vivian you know like can we use Vivian as you know sort of affirms that notion that it is an instrument for white supremacist capitalist patriarchy etc and the question is can we use it again you know can we use it can we use the tools against itself in against those systems and can we use the master's tools so to speak also creating prompts helps you to think deeper of the topic especially if you change the prompts yeah yeah and it helps of course obviously it helps you think about genre too but let's let's take a look at another exercise and i'm going to go back to the book for a second just to to ground this or give you some context um so at some point i had um chat gpt enter an arranged marriage with bing that's set up by open ai and bill gates um so so they get married in in the course of hallucinate this um and uh i had to write in an atlantic monthly article called never eat your idols about it and then we had the bachelorette party that happened we had uh see yes sir uh yes sir we had uh a song from their their wedding called love in binary frank sinatra style wedding song um an entry then chat gpt becomes pregnant with chat gpt 5 and so we have a little what to expect when you're expecting ai like kind of a diary entry about anxieties and expectations uh the prompt talks about um oh it should have your own style of curse words in it i guess i was trying to get to curse a little bit um of course i ask it to make put lots of puns and then i sort of like gave it a plot twist because i had it create an environmental impact report that suggests and here's the prompt that claims that the development of this large language model came at tremendous environmental cost so here's the fictitious report and of course it's got made up statistics and and made up uh work cited and then turn the page and there's a parody of 60 minutes called 60 minutia where the fictional person morley stall grills chat gpt about this report and um i don't know i i actually like this more than more than a little is there somebody who could uh would be willing to play uh morley stall in this we need we need a volunteer maha you can do it yeah we do we do readers theater where we get together and do this kind of thing yay great great great and then can i have somebody who just uh reads uh the stage directions a relatively light role well all right i'll do that does anybody and does anybody want to be the ai expert that's you'd be the voice of chat gpt oh uh i'll i'll do it if no one else will okay is that i'm listening is that vivian who's volunteering yeah i'm gonna okay i'm gonna i'm gonna be the ai expert yeah you're the ai expert who's essentially chat gpt itself just so you know great okay okay and then and then i'll i'll read the stage directions but i won't read i'm not going to read uh mood prompts at the beginning of your statements i'll just read the things that are literal stage directions okay here we go so um fade in uh interior 60 minutia set night morley stall seasoned journalist sits across from ai expert who seems visibly tense under the studio lights you're suggesting in your report that the environmental impact of an ai like chat gpt is less than that of pencils typewriters and human proofreaders do you realize how fantastical this sounds well yes i can understand that it might seem counterintuitive however when you take into account the complete life cycle of these traditional tools the numbers become compelling compelling to whom let me get this straight you're claiming that the billions of pencils used annually in the u.s have a greater carbon footprint and the energy used to train this ai yes that's i mean the numbers in the report indicate that's correct yes so if we all stop using pencils and switch this ai we'll save the planet it's not quite that simple morally the point is not to vilify pencils or typewriters rather it's to illustrate something give me a second sorry sorry i gotta flip the page ah zoom fail give me a second no uh here we go oh yeah it's to it's to illustrate that while ai models like chat gpt do have environmental cost it's not as black and white as it may seem aren't you ignoring the tremendous energy consumption associated with the computing infrastructure that supports chat gpt no not at all the report takes into account the energy used in training the ai yes it is significant but remember that this is a one-time cost whereas pencils and typewriters have recurring impacts across their life cycle and the proofreaders even the proofreaders yes the environmental footprint of a human being includes everything from their food consumption to the energy used in their work environment compared to the one-time cost of training an ai model there are potential environmental savings morley stall smirks clearly enjoying the tense exchange the ai expert sits up a little straighter regaining some confidence fade out all right great job readers great job i love it yeah i guess i guess i forgot to tell you that the environmental report is actually one that's funded by by open ai to defend chat gpt on the basis that that these other things take have more of an environmental cost so so after that i prompted it to um to go to get some therapy from the chat bot the original chat bot from 1966 eliza and then um and then it kind of like it has this kind of a breakdown a little bit from that um it goes to a bar where someone tells it about uh a desert event called burning model that it goes to um to sort of clear its head a little bit um then it has um oh wait then then the person who shows it who tells it about burning model it writes a python script for her like dedicated to her um then it goes to burning model for a little while then it has takeaways from burning mall then it kind of has like a you know burning malls out in the desert it's taking these hallucinogens and it it has further both visions and breakdowns um and then there's an article a big esk expose that's written um in i guess it's esquire or similar type magazine waste oh it's wasted wires that that sort of covers what happened to chat gpt and its breakdown and then finally it has like a little meeting with me where we we sort of we're reading that article together and we're talking about chat gpt's journey um anyway i i show you all that madness to talk about another exercise that i like called hallucination and that's really what a lot of this how a lot of this book was written and the idea is that since we know that chat gpt hallucinates um we can sort of also in i don't know kind of involve ourselves in a kind of hallucination so for this next exercise what i'd like us to do is try once again to go back into groups and i want us to hallucinate and let me see if i can specify this a little bit more for you with a slide uh let me go back to sharing la la la share screen just a portion bring it back okay so the next exercise is called hallucination you begin with a prompt and then you free associate to your heart's content so let's say you start with a story about a dog then you free associate what the dog's dream was like you know again you're that's a separate prompt to chat chat gpt like you know tell me what this dog dreamed of then you say now give us the dog's therapist interpretation of that dream now write a song about from a musical about that dream so again it's more like it's not just shifting genre but it's sort of like taking some aspect of it and hallucinating much like that video hallucinated in the beginning remember i showed you in don't text me about the text apocalypse by the way i should mention a little shout out to matt kerschenbaum himself who appears in that video um that's not an ai simulation of him that's that's him himself um okay so let's go back to our slides and back to our groups but i think we may have lost some people so i'm thinking maybe we need to change the groups a little bit um yeah actually we we could also just do it as one big group because now we have eight whole people here um do we want to do two groups or just do it as one christina says yes people need to check out okay let's just do this as one we'll do this exercise as one group we won't even use a breakout room um okay so i'm gonna go into my chat tpt we if that's okay we'll use mine because um i'll use four so let's share screen we'll go in here and let's do a new chat and we'll start out with four okay so um and maybe it's best if we just kind of we can talk about it or we can just go around and everybody gets uh everybody's going to take it to the next level that that feels like properly surrealist so virginia you're at the top of my list of people on my little side screen so do you want to give us our initial prompt um yes so it's it's a story right so i would it could be anything yeah write a story sure i would say uh write a story about a giraffe that wants a uh neck lift uh and and um in the explain what that is i guess of like um the lion king okay great um and uh a neck lift is a fictional proceed uh plastic surgery procedure for uh vein is it the right vein vein vein yeah vein or self-conscious giraffes giraffes right something like that right um and then we'll keep these short because otherwise it's not going to be as much fun we'll say uh 100 words max yep under word limit maybe we'll say because i might not understand the word max in that context okay great let's uh great oh this is already beautiful um virginia do you want to read your your creation you're muted by the way i'm gonna try but i'm having some problems with my eyes today um in the vibrant heart of the savannah jeffrey the giraffe burdened by self-consciousness longed for a neck lift tall tales of the legendary pumbaa now a reformed warthog surgeon sparked his hope with the sun setting jeffrey embarked on a journey his long shadow a reminder of his unique plight after a tearful heartfelt plea pumbaa agreed imploring jeffrey to embrace his natural beauty post-surgery the operation a curious spectacle of savannah medicine was successful yet in the heartwarming aftermath jeffrey found wisdom understanding that true beauty em em em eminated from within his grateful neck now a symbol of self-acceptance stood stood taller than ever oh i love it i don't know well done i think we're gonna get sued by disney so we'll throw that out there but although i don't know if pumbaa is in the original uh tale of lion king if it's all right all right so then next time can i make the next yeah sure ma of course what do you want to say something virginia yeah just sued by disney or toys are up us because i do believe jeffrey the giraffe is the oh right yeah of course i think they're out of business i think they're out of business though right so we're safe okay ma what do you got so my next prompt is use the above story in a psychology class to explain a psychology concept to students as an analysis to explain the analysis or something or something like something like that yeah uh let's see keep it under 100 words still we'll keep that limit and then let me see well with counting words does it i've seen it do weird things with that i mean maybe 54 is better uh a limit will at least be somewhat useful let's see use the story about psychology um and then is it like analysis of a patient or of a case study something like that or phenomenon or something okay oh yeah of a phenomenon phenomenon okay great all right let's see what it does this is exactly what i was looking for yeah i feel like this is a real one you want to read that one first maha yeah so students let's use this story as a metaphor for body dysmorphic disorder where one excessively worries about perceived flaws in their appearance jeffrey the giraffe symbolizes people with bdd his desire for a necklace demonstrates a distorted self-image highlighting the psychological impact of such disorders whom by the warthog surgeon plays the role of a therapist facilitating physical change but also promoting self-acceptance the outcome jeffrey self-realization demonstrate cognitive behavioral therapy's potential effectiveness helping individuals understand that beauty is subjective and true acceptance stems from them that was actually really good there we go yeah yeah that's that that indeed seems to be the moral of the story good that's right yeah yeah yeah um okay all right next on my list i have uh vivian do you want to give us our next prompt our next hallucination dear um um take this shove it oh you can you can free associate from anything that's come up so far oh so it could be like a like student a student's notes from that class or it could be something back to the giraffe or something about the neck lift operation or something about pumba and surgery or okay right me discuss the racist undertones of um um the lion king as well as um wait sorry that's too many words and add um body positive uh positive attitude um good enough is that is that enough let's see again let's uh keep it under under words and um and then do we want to give it like like what its perspective is is it is it like uh is it a race theorist you know there's a specialist on they used to teach in race and resistance studies okay okay great but i mean so should that also be our what our ai is writing from maybe right in a race and resistance course okay okay great uh poor i mean i i thought it was interesting how uh ai changed ai made the giraffe male oh yeah that's it's so the racist and gendered undertones of the lion king story above or something okay so racist and gendered okay you know what and then maybe you could take out the take out of the lion king ask story or something like that king base story or something or i don't know what what to add yeah ask or a base story above and add body positive attitude okay it'll be right for a course called race and resistance oh well that's the department but whatever okay okay okay well that'll get the gist i think all right let's see all right you want to read that one vivian wait you're muted in case you want to read it early the story's protagonist jeffrey a giraffe is burdened by societal beauty standards yeah societal i don't like my students use that uh echoing harmful stereotypes right it doesn't know malcolm x and cultural norms despite the anthropomorphic representation the lion king often portrayed yeah this is just blowing it for me african africa is a giant continent uh environments through a western gaze subtly reinforcing exotic well exoticification exoticization and racial othering big o furthermore pomba's role as quote-unquote reformed male surgeon upholds patriarchal structures but dictating beauty norms however the narrative adapt adopts a body positive stance urging self-acceptance challenging the norms and subtly demanding a dismantling of racially by his gender beauty standards the story is a call for resistance against oppressive norms and a move towards embracing oh jesus christ this is all just like barfed up stuff because if i read it right the previous stories the the giraffe underwent surgery yes yeah so that's totally effed up because it should have the giraffe should have stopped before it had body modification um yeah sure so this didn't catch what i would have caught and plus um it doesn't know terms like uh malcolm x's science of imagery or um patricia hill collins um controlling images and instead barfs up the word stereotypes so it's just like not very good reprompt it and ask it you could reprompt it to incorporate malcolm x's whatever it is that you're saying and which can hit the hill comments we'll see that that's that's yeah you know this is so interesting thank you so much because it's like pushing all my buttons about society society what is society then it did african environments and it's just like okay africa is a huge continent made up of many many different cultures and then um really interesting this interpretation is kind of off altogether too so one of the things that jeremy has suggested in our our conference back in may was that sometimes we may want to consider having an ai student where that answers all the prompts and then we can react to its responses as a teaching opportunity and so like again vivian i can imagine if this if you did this in your class then you could use it's what it spat out as a teaching moment right you could be again you could you could underscore the way like and you could speculate too about where this where it's drawing from all this pablum you know all this generic language that sounds like it might be related to race theory but really isn't you know it's kind of uninformed and not critical right it's just the language from that genre that's misapplied you know in non-critical ways well let's well let's get out of this one so chris where should we hallucinate to next how about ask it to um rewrite it in style of um samuel beckett um so between jeffrey and what's the other what's the other person pumba um okay so the story of pumba and uh jeffrey jeffrey in the style of a sam we want one of a samuel beckett play of a samuel beckett yeah beckett beckett play let's see if i spelled any of that right jeffrey's we got right pumba i believe is how that's but they spelled pumba yep uh and okay let's see uh again limit it to uh 100 words same i don't know this is closer than i expected okay um well we'll need to perform this one anybody want to read the part of pumba sure okay chris you take pumba anybody want to read the part of jeffrey okay i'll take jeffrey so oh wait you're doing wait vivian you want to take it yeah i'll do okay and i'll do the narration the just yeah take it away curtains lift a baron stage pumba the warthog alone life precision of faces now a giraffe jeffrey enters looming yet hunched his shadow an oppressive figure a neck lift pumba and why jeffrey to fit to belong long as but an illusion they proceed with the absurd surgery grotesque yet poetic unchanged jeffrey leaves the shadow lingers unchanged yet not a tall shadow standing taller burns closed stage barren again save for the lingering shadow the silent test of jeffrey's metamorphosis okay so in this one they didn't do the surgery right there's some metamorphosis interesting i i don't know i have to apologize i like this one a little too much so i i i i find it hilarious this one is more hilarious i thought i mean the only beckett line that came to me was i want me pep nice yeah i mean right so it like it like pulled off i don't know but chris you're you're the prompter what was your feeling about it i thought it was pretty darn good yeah yeah okay wait christina's got the next the the next prompt write a review of the play as it would appear in the new york times beautiful let's do it absolutely and i'm just going to limit it to 50 to limit to 100 words because otherwise we don't get to enjoy the thank you yeah i don't think it is the brevity is the solo weight so we got to keep it and um and christina you're you put that in the chat do you want to read that one or do you need to be muted hear me and do you have to stay if you have to say me or i'll read it that if that's okay so in beckett's uncanny style the play jeffrey shadow masterfully reinterprets the beloved characters pumba and jeffrey from the lion king stripped of the savannah backdrop the austere stage setting proves poignant putting societal norms and self-acceptance into stark relief the hunch jeffrey and thoughtful pumba mesmerize their terse dialogue ringing with existential truth pumba's soliloquies bookend the play imparting profound observations about belonging and self-image the climactic surgery scene uh is a riveting absurd spectacle leading to a subtle yet profound transformation lurking beneath this surreal veneer jeffrey's shadow delivers a compelling commentary on beauty and identity a must watch yeah yeah probably two probably more positive than a times review would be ever on anything but yeah yeah superficial word choice yeah but again there's one thing i'm noticing in this one that i don't know if you guys are noticing that it's taking the critique that vivian asked for not for race but i think for body image that it's sort of like has been underlying this thing and it's started it's starting to like bring that out as part of what this content is all about because remember it's drawing upon all of the prompts we've given it so far where we keep sort of guiding it in terms of our internal logic of our relationship to the material again this is all happening i'm describing it like it's meditating on our input but i'm just saying that like it's all of the things every time we prompt it we're feeding it a little bit more a sense of where our minds are in relationship to this material okay so uh who haven't we gotten a prompt from uh did we irene have you given us a prompt yet i'm enjoying the ones that are here um okay all right all right uh let's is there anybody who has not given a prompt yet okay well then let me let me give it a a quick one um um uh yeah it Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'm sorry. Thank you. I'm sorry. Thank you. So, we're going to have an intermitten scene description, and a little imagery drawn from the theater. uh well where did those chestnuts come from i don't know yeah you think so okay okay all right we'll stop just just so in the interest of time let's we'll stop it's generating for just a second we'll give it its limit thank you good call there christina uh limit i might give it a few more words this time limit 200 words uh and let me change this to two sentences or short typing phrases each um um one more thing you get your shot into short phrases thanks thanks thanks thanks thanks yeah and again and so in you'll notice if you guys read hallucinate this that i keep the prompts with the typos because those are part of the things that generated the text ah let's do 150 words there we there okay ah i understand i like to tell it to you sentence fragments because i noticed that it often doesn't and i really like sentence fragments in writing but anyway you ah what happened um Sorry, that was too bad. I don't know. Sometimes it runs into this fail state and I'm not sure what causes it. And then it was upset that it couldn't go on. I see. Okay. Now it took the much shorter version. Okay. So does anybody want to read this one for us? Okay, maybe I will. Red velvet curtain, the final fall. She claps fervent. Amazing interpretation, she breathes. He scoffs, an abomination. Dim theater lights, popcorn crunching in the distance. Her heart aches, his critique a piercing spear. Felt rather than heard. A sellout, he adds, shakes his head. Pumbaa's final soliloquy hangs, a ghost between them. She watches him, his eyes distant. Empty stage. A once occupied space. Like them. Do you remember? Her voice trails. He shrugs. Used to love Disney. Unsaid words. Unsaid words. A cavernous silence. More profound than spoken regrets. I think she struggles. Outside rain. An appropriate stage hand. He nods, silent. A grim understanding. Goodbye then, she whispers. He nods again. Empty promises of another play another time. Lonely footsteps and echoing reminder. He stays, gazes at the vacant stage. Sees Jeffrey's shadow. Their shadow. Their love, a failed script. Now an eerie echo in the hollow theater. Empty chairs and then the beginning. Curtains close. Not on the stage, but on them. So part of what I like about that exercise is the sheer insanity of it. I love, of course, as Maha pointed out, I love the improvisational side of it. I love the kind of like way that people can just make these wild lateral moves to like move the whole experience towards maybe something that again, thinking about like Vivian had very different things that she was thinking about than maybe Chris was then, you know, again, and then it brought different things and some of them can reveal the weakness of chat GPT and kind of play off of its weaknesses and some of them can play on its strengths. And I just like to just to me, it's really enjoyable to go on that journey with people and with with the system and just see where where it takes us again. It's like free associating in a lot of ways. OK, I know we're getting on time, so let me do a little a few. Can I just also make another comment sort of please watching you today and just generally when I meet you and what you're doing is you're teaching writing as you teach the prompting. So students who have writer's block, the kind of ways that you prompt and of themselves can help students get more creative with the way they write. So to me, it's not even. Yeah, it's cool what chat GPT will do with it, but it's just cool to open your mind to even thinking about these things in the first place. Like you can even prompt yourself with these things and come up with interesting things. Well, I hope so. I appreciate you saying that, Maha. You know, the life of a writing teacher is the life of coming up with prompts. A lot of it. Right. But also. We who are deeply involved with language, all of us gathered here know much more about language than our students do. And so. Yeah, maybe maybe what having them watch participate in that process and watch that process is a way to help them more deeply understand writing in general. You know, I hope that that's what happened. And that's what happened this summer with my students. They're really engaging with the system was not like learning how to cheat. There were some days I mentioned in the last session where like I taught them how to how to prompt chat GPT well. And I felt like I just taught, you know, criminals how to rob a bank more effectively, like I had given them the codes to the bank vault. But but at the end of the day, I think they did see these systems as. Things that they could use to extend their process, help their process, challenge their process rather than replace their process, at least that was our goal. So we don't have time for this exercise, but another thing that you can do, and this is something we've been talking about, is this exercise that I came up with Jeremy called tell me without telling me. So you get the AI to write in a certain dictionary style, not by explicitly asking for it, but by writing your prompt in that style and you can see like that's really what I've been doing throughout my throughout hallucinate this like I am constantly telling it indirectly. This is who I want you to be chat GPT this is how I want you to act. So if you look at. I guess I guess I could just demonstrate that for you very, very quickly. So if my task is, you know, write a speech right. I'm a motivating speech right. To a group of people. Okay. You know that's going to get kind of generic results so let's say writing a motivating speech and it's going to give us blah blah blah, you know. This is the kind of generic stuff you get. But if instead I say. Mark to me like if someone. With a non standard English wrote and prompted it in non standard English could respond in non standard English. I do me I do mean that. 100% it's challenging. Because chat GPT is so much more standard English in it than non standard English. But but but that is a way that is the reason why most people who try that exercise get such poor results. Is because they're not prompting it in the language that they want it to to imitate. I'm not saying it's ever going to be perfect without fine tuning but that that is my suspicion so. So you think it took a paragraph out of an African American writers book. Right. Right. And use that and use that sort of as the content of the problem. Right. Right. Right. Because because the problem is that people who. Even people who would try that that exercise. Like I've had students who are Caribbean and they've tried to get it to write Caribbean rap style lyrics or Caribbean American style rap lyrics, but they're not prompting it in that language. Right. That they want to hear. But again, I suspect you'd what you'd really want to do is use a system like Claude and then give it all sorts of you know, give it 400 or 300 pages of models. Seated data. Yeah. Yeah. Does it does it retrain itself in the moment or does it retrain itself permanently Claude? Claude retains itself. It seems to be session based, too. So it retains. Session based. Anybody have any. I wonder if in the future you could train your own AI the way you want it, like you train your dog. Like, give it. Well, you know. Yeah, sure. Sure. Maybe like in get a system like Llama or one that you can install on your own computer and then just you just have your own one running that you've trained over time. Like, absolutely. On bodies of language that you want. Oh, yeah. Like one of the. Yeah, they're already those generic ones. But yeah. You can do what you want with this. And let me just do one more thing in this so that it's not like you don't think I'm tricking it here. So I'm gonna say is arg, matey, write a motivating speech to me hearties who are management consultants. Okay. Facebook does yar. Facebook does pirate speech. But but that's olden days. But the thing is, is about using nonstandard speeches. Like for me, it's such a resistant thing that I do. I don't want chatbot to know how to mix Oakland with pigeon. It's funny. Thank you so much. You don't want it to be able to do that. Yeah. And again, the demonstration there isn't isn't that chat TPT can speak pirate. It's more that you can cue it to speak pirate without asking it to speak pirate is more my point. But but no, I think you make a beautiful point that you that this is that these languages, if they're languages of resistance, they're they're resistant to standardization, co-option. And other people coming in and appropriating them by learning them and mass, you know what I mean, and imitating them and and right because at that point they become they lose their freedom and their power. I think that makes perfect sense, but I guess what I'm saying is a lot of people have shown a superficial kind of limitation to the system by saying it can't do this thing. And again, I don't know. I'm not convinced that it can't. If the argument is that it doesn't have that same kind of power that it might have otherwise, then sorry, I've got all of my email open. Then I think that's a great argument. Let me give you one more little exercise so sometimes I like to teach about chat tpt without using chat tpt. So back in the fall we did a net prof called the grand exhibition of prompts. And in this we imagine this is another net prof we imagined that there was a great 19th century style Parisian salon. But that's cast in the future when no longer are people creating paintings, but the art is to create beautiful prompts. And so we did this in a discord and we had students pretend that they were imagine that they are hallucinate that they were prompt writers great prompt artists. And they were writing prompts of the most gorgeous kind that could be exhibited in these salons. And we had little schools like emo, retro and Fido. Fido was for people who wrote prompts mostly about pets. And we didn't care what kind of art this generated in fact we encourage students. Who, who, who, or anybody who played along to create prompts that the AI system would not be able to process because they contained emotion or, or other kinds of digressions that were, were very human. But not instrumental, not, not, not geared towards evoking a certain kind of, you know, not, not 4k cinematic lighting and all the things you put into prompts to make those, those images appear. And so this was an exercise that was outside of the AI interface, but allowed students to think about what makes us human, what makes art art, what it is to be an artist. And again, what they also did was they narrated their lives as prompt artists and gave their characters little character arcs as they imagined this future world. And one more little piece I want to show you as we wrap up is there's this wonderful piece by Peggy Weil called Mr. Mind. And this is another non, non, really non AI chatbot that's been around for decades that asks humans to explain what makes them human to a chatbot. And she's recorded these answers over the course of decades, and she's even turned them into a song cycle. And so again, that's just another way to talk about ways of thinking about AI and these AI systems playfully without, without actually using them. So I know there's, there's like three of us left at this point or seven. Again, if anybody wants to email me and talk about this later, or we do have a mailing list we're sort of putting together that's for a discussion list really it's not, it's not like a MailChimp list it's like a discussion list. So if you want to talk about AI and the use of AI in the classroom, you know just send me an email or anybody who attended the session, if you want a copy of hallucinate this. Just, just send me a note. And I will happily get it to you but but thank you, thank you organizers for having me. Thank you folks who stayed made stayed through the for the whole two hours, but and also thanks to the people who weren't able to stay the full time if you watch the video i'm thanking you to your participation really made this wonderful so. So thanks everybody. Thank you so much mark for coming and doing this it was so much fun. Thank you so much, thank you so much for coming to the chat mark I was just wondering. And I think the. Yeah yeah yeah for sure any questions. I posted one on the chat there mark I was just wondering. With the hallucination activity, would you ever have your students in the writing course compile that into like an edited document and handed in as a writing assignment. writing assignment. Yeah, I, I, well, right now, um, chat TPT has the ability for you to share sessions. So I have them share those sessions so I can see what happened. And then I ask them to reflect on those sessions, you know, as well, but, but actually, again, I always default, I always have to defer to Jeremy. He suggests like copy and pasting into a Google doc is probably smarter because chat TPT again is a commercial project product, and they may not always let that happen. Right, right now it's in their best interest to let that happen. It's probably like part of their marketing schemes and things like that. I mean, technique, strategy, whatever you want to call it. But I, I recommend that probably having them copy and paste it into a Google doc, their interactions, and then maybe write some, they can either write meta commentary at the end, or they can comment it throughout. It's kind of nice to get them to think critically about what that engagement elicited for them. Yeah, great question. Very cool. Thanks. And then would you also ever consider getting them to use that as a launching, like, because we offer a lot of creative writing and comic storytelling books, would you see the benefit in them using this as kind of like a brainstorming session, and then using that as a launching point for a creative work? Sure. Yeah. What is that? What's the context of that, Christina? Well, we have students that are in our visual arts program that write comic stories, but they sometimes have a hard time generating, like, novel ideas, and they kind of stick to the standard storytelling approach. But I could see a collaborative storytelling prompt that reassociation activity being a great launching point to getting them to kind of break down some of those barriers that they might contain themselves in with the writing process. So doing something like that during the brainstorming phase might be kind of just getting the creative juices flowing. And yeah. Yeah, yeah, 100%. I mean, I think, you know, a lot of people are like, oh, chat TPT only generates stuff that's already been out there. But I mean, all you have to do, first of all, these LLMs have settings, you can change them about how imaginative it's going to be. And also, you can just tell it in the prompt, like, give me seven unusual ideas for, you know, a short comic story. And then, again, you can even tell it like similar to X, Y, or Z, or that matches two things that are very strange, or that set something in an unusual location, or whatever other parameters you want to give it. And, and yeah, my students have found it to be, to be very inspirational. Also, to be honest, like, there's no reason why they shouldn't use Mid Journey, or Dolly, or Crayon, to create some images that inspire them to tell stories, right? I mean, that's, seems to me, that's a wonderful use of the tool as well. I mean, in other words, you don't have to use those image creation tools to create images, illustrations for your piece, you could use it to just inspire you. And why not? You know, you would walk into an art museum and let that inspire you. You'd pick up a comic book and let that inspire you. So, yeah, that's great. One of the things that I'm concerned about recently, and I know we're at time, so I'm just going to say so I recently asked it about what is white supremacy culture, and it gave me some stuff, which I know is the work of Tema Okun, right? And so I told him, so who said that? And they're like, oh, I'm an LLM, I don't know this stuff. But then I said, who is the author who writes about white supremacy culture? And it came back with the author. What I'm concerned about here is when, when students are prompting AI to give it some, give them something. Sometimes it's a synthesis of like millions and millions of different things on the internet, but sometimes it's actually like, yeah, one or two people in the world talk about this thing, but it's been cited a lot. So the LLM has been trained on it. But then if the student then uses it, no matter what your approach to asking them to be transparent about what they used or whatever it is that we're asking them to do, they're still thinking that the AI came up with it, but it isn't. It's actually really just one or two people's work that you're then not, and that the students aren't then recognizing or acknowledging or, so this is starting to bother me a lot. Like, obviously, one thing to do is to always ask the student to get another source for the information. But I'm just like really concerned about that part. Well, even if you're using it for creative stuff, it might actually be someone very specific idea, and they don't realize that. Yeah. I mean, I don't think people should use LLMs as research tools. You know, and I agree with your point, Maha, for sure. But on the other hand, if someone asked me about certain concepts on some levels, like they just want a concept explained, there are probably some that even I as a human being can't, I mean, again, this is a different story, but like I probably couldn't tell you necessarily where I learned that concept for some of the things that are in my brain. Again, it's not, it's not a defense. That's like what we say about citation. You don't need to cite that the three pyramids are in Egypt, because this is known. But you would have to cite. We know what we need to cite and what we don't need to cite. But the AI never cites anything. Vivian, were you just trying to say goodbye? Yeah, because for example, Mark, you did say the master's tools, dot, dot, dot, the master's tools is Audrey Lorde, and the master's tools will not, cannot dismantle the master's house, which, you know, I don't have the book anymore, you know, is from a burst of light is from this, you know, and so if we just start, it's like we're, oh, there's a really good short story about that. But we act as parrots. We act as parrots. Yes, humans. And then the credit does not go to the people who originated those specific terms. You know, like I was saying, Malcolm X, this, and Patricia Hill calls this, you know, I'm one of those people who is like, well, you know, I'm walking footnotes, sir. I love it. I love it. I love a walking footnote. Well, yeah. And again, look at my slide with the parrot on it. Did I say that that came from the Bender et al. article, Stochastic Parrots? No, I didn't. In fact, I expected that you might have, the people in this call might have some familiarity with that. Yeah, that's what I figure. I figure you figure most people know that one. But again, that's why I would say the, like, teaching to use LLMs as research tools, again, even using LLMs as part of search engines makes, doesn't, it, like, at this point in my brain, like, it doesn't make any sense to me. Like, I don't, I don't understand how, like, to me, a confabulating machine can't augment, can't augment a search technique. It's not designed to do that. You think so. But then students do do that. Or maybe we want to teach them eventually to stop doing that. Or my daughter, after two weeks, she's 12. After two weeks of playing with chat GP, she's like, if I want verified information, I'm not going to use chat GP. I'm going to Google it and figure out if the sources is good, you know. But for some reason, undergrads, when they're in a hurry, don't do that. Yeah, I'm going to use Vivian. Well, and so what's our goal? You know, our goal is to teach them the difference between these systems and how to use them and realize that they probably will do what they need to do at certain times. But as long as they know the risks, you know, as long as they know the hazards. They understand the limitations and they understand what could go, yeah, that's a good point. Right. That's what I'm saying. Like, so Vivian going through that answer with her, with students and saying, look at how many places this is going wrong. Like, that's what's going to stay with students, I think. They'll remember that. And they'll maybe have a moment of, I'm going to hit send on this message I just generated with chat GPT. It probably has some wrong stuff in it. Do I really want to do that? Maybe I don't. Maybe I'm going to hold back. Maybe I'm not so sure that that's true. I think for my specific students, I'm living in rural poverty where students have no faith in their abilities to any, to, to do academic work. A lot of them do not. And so it's like, look, I'm not just picking on you. I'm actually picking on the word choice. And AI did this stuff that gets on my last nerve. It's not you. Right. It's the word. So I could see how that could be helpful, but it's just like, it's a different can of worms where I am, you know, I mean, teaching to students who are hell bent on believing that they know nothing. Wow. In this really tragic way.