Monitoring runoff from farms
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xl66fgJzCuY
Education
 Music What we're trying to do is tell a sort of a fairly complete picture about nitrogen dynamics through the Tully-Johnson catchments. You know, what's the water quality leaving rain forests? How does it change when we get down into farming areas? What are some of the management options that farmers can undertake on their farms in terms of minimising their fertiliser loss from their farms? And demonstrating particularly to the farming industry what sort of management control options they do have over water quality. So local scale monitoring is where we look at water quality data on a finer scale. So rather than just doing monitoring at the end of a river catchment or basin, we'll move the monitoring sites up into the basins and have a lot more monitoring sites so that we can provide more fine scale information to people who live and work in the basins. And that way these people have data available to them which shows how their activities influence water quality. This is one of many sites that we've got through the Tully and Johnson catchments where we monitor runoff water coming off paddocks, where we look at different management treatments and we measure how much nitrogen is coming off from the different management practices. So essentially the reason why we collect this data is so that we can provide information to community. We do it in a way that the community know the source of the data, they know who's collected it, how it was collected. They were involved in the design of the program and so the data that we then deliver to the grower is trusted. I have been reluctant in the past to accept that my nitrogen moves off farm. You know, this Scala project allows you to watch it from the beginning to the end and have faith in the quality of the sampling and the quality of the data that comes out and how that reflects on your own farming operation. Once you can see it, you can manage it. You know, and the growers have always said to us, show me it's my nitrogen and then is what I'm doing making a difference? So we share the information predominantly through grower meetings. So we'll meet at a shed and we'll have the data packaged up. It'll be relevant data in terms that was only collected in the last few months. So people remember what's happened at that point in time. And then we work together to interpret the data and see what is going on downstream and why we might be seeing those results. What it's all about in the end is so that we have communities working together to change their needs, to change their practices and alter their behaviours so that we improve water quality flowing out to the Great Barrier Reef.