Sustainable Agriculture
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xN3LVqoFmlI
Education
 The term has been gaining traction primarily because of the fact that intensive agriculture is leading to land degradation. That is what we saw, no? Scientific American saying and the global land out-to-pub-UNCCD saying all of this. What is the major recommendation? The major recommendation is move away from intensive agriculture. So, moving away from intensive agriculture, since the focus has been enormous not just in India but world over, the sustainable agriculture has come to the fore. So, what are the various components of sustainable agriculture or what should a sustainable agriculture do? Even before that, the definition. So, sustainable agriculture is farming in sustainable ways based on an understanding of ecosystem services and the study of relationship between organism and the environment. More importantly, it's a farming in sustainable way. And how do you do it in a sustainable way? So, that you do not disturb the environment. A. Do not. But you are still able to produce value, which is economical. And there is a community-based approach to the whole agriculture, which is society. So, if you remember Rene Passage three circle, it is social, economic, environment. So, always remember those three circles whenever you write something on sustainable development, sustainable agriculture or anything through with sustainability. Okay. So, what are the various components of sustainable agriculture? What are the various concepts? Components, I'm sorry. What are the various components? Satisfy human food needs. It's a given, no doubt about it. Enhance environmental quality and natural resource base upon which agriculture economy depends. Make the most efficient use of non-renewable resources. Sustain economic viability of farm operations. Enhance the quality of life. So, if you look at it, this is environment. Talks about environment. This talks about environment. This talks about economics. Satisfy human, I would say social. Enhance quality of life, I would say social. Yeah. So, the definition has five parts to it, which is a combination of the three dog, two series that we've done okay. Jee Map. Jee Map. Jee Map. Jee Map. Jee Map. Jee Map. Jee Map. Jee Map. Jee Map. Jee Map. Jee Map. Jee Map. Jee Map. Jee Map. Jee Map. Jee Map. Jee Map. Jee Map. Jee Map. Jee Map. Jee Map. Jee Map.