The Best Way to Plant on a Slope!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XQV0c7VmeKo
People & Blogs
 Hey folks, it's Laura with Rain Tree Nursery and today we are going to go through a brief tutorial on how to plant on a slope. So there are two things you need to be concerned with when you are planting plants on a slope. The first thing is to plant them in such a way that things coming down the slope, water, soil, wind, do not uncover the roots of the plant. And number two is you need to set up a way that you can water effectively and know that the water is going to stay in the root zone of the plant. One of my favorite strategies for setting up watering systems that will work really well for plants on slopes is to dig a hole back behind the plant on the uphill side of the slope and then fill that hole with wood chips or rocks or gravel, something that will keep the sides of the hole from collapsing in on themselves but have enough inherent voids that they can accept a lot of water. So if you have a big rain event that the water will go into the hole and then take its time sinking into the soil where it can be held right at the roots of the plant. Personally, I like to use wood chips so I'm just going to go ahead and put the wood chips in the hole and show you how I do it. The next order of business is to shore up the hole itself around the plant and what I want to do is I want to backfill around these rocks. I love to use rocks or concrete blocks or bricks or anything that's really nice and solid to create an exterior form to the hole. And once I've got my exterior form, then I want to backfill against both sides of the rocks so that I make sure that when water comes down, it can both be held right in the root zone of the plant and also that the force of any water doesn't inadvertently push the rocks away from the base of the root zone too. So once I get the interior then put a little bit on the exterior and then I want to make sure that I've got a little well that I can water straight into that will hold that water, a lot of water, 10 gallons, every time I water and allow it to slowly sink into the soil. So I built up the sides of my hole and now it's time for mulch. I have a real strong preference for using burlap bags in situations like this, old coffee bags, what have you, to add a little bit more reinforcement to the hole. But I've gone ahead and started to apply my mulch. Never ever ever skimp on your mulch in situations like this. Slopes are dynamic places and the better care you take preparing your hole, the longer it will last and the better it will suit your new plants. Thanks for joining us. It's Laura with Rain Tree Nursery. I'll see you next time.