AN AGRONOMIST - WHAT IS THAT?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRZJpS6THi8
People & Blogs
 G'day guys and welcome back to Get Ag-ducated. In my last video I mentioned that I was an agronomist and I bet some of you were probably thinking, what is that? So today I thought I might explain what that is and also take you through a day in the life of my job. Firstly I just wanted to describe that agronomy is the science and technology of producing plants for food, fuel, fibre and land reclamation. It involves plant genetics, plant physiology, meteorology and soil science. So an agronomist is a technical expert in the science of soil management and crop production. An agronomist is probably best described as a crop doctor. So just like a medical doctor knows how the body works, can identify any problems and come up with solutions for that. An agronomist has that exact same knowledge but for plants and can advise a farmer on how to best manage their crops or pasture. My job differs slightly from a regular agronomist as I am a research agronomist. Instead of assisting farmers directly with their crops, we conduct research trials and collect data to be able to assist farmers and other agronomists with new information about their crops. I work for a cotton company called CSD and I'm involved in conducting and monitoring variety trials to compare how different varieties of cotton perform in different parts of the country. Which is basically influenced by the difference in climate. So I'm going to take you through a day of work with me. I find it's good to get started early in the morning as cotton is a summer crop and it gets pretty hot in the peak part of the season. It's been over 40 degrees for the most part of January and today it's going to be about 39 degrees. So still hot. In the morning I pack my lunch in an esky and make sure I pack lots of water. Then I pop my boots on, jump in the ute and get going for the day. I travel a lot for my job. I look after crops from about Forbes in New South Wales all the way down to Swan Hill in Victoria. And I've travelled 60,000 kilometres over the past year. It's been pretty cool to travel through lots of different towns that I've never been to before moving out here. But you get to find out where all the good coffee shops are so that's good. So today I'm going to be heading down to a farm near Berrigan which is about two hours away from Griffith. At each farm I visit I walk out into the crop with a clipboard and a ruler and do a number of counts depending on what stage the crop is at. But the majority of the time I sample five plants from each row and measure the height of each plant. Count how many branches are meant to have fruit on them and how many of these fruit have fallen off. And we'll count how much fruit there is in one metre. Depending on the layout of the trial I usually will repeat this about 12 times across different rows of the crop. While adding each crop I am generally looking at how the plants are looking physically and also looking out for anything unusual that I can pass on to the farmer or the agronomist. Then I'll jump back in the car and drive to the next site and do it all over again. So now I'm going to head back up towards Griffith to a farm near Colliambly which is about an hour away from here. So I usually visit around two to three sites per day depending on how far apart they are from each other. And then I will travel back home as I have a home office because I'm based remotely from my company's office. At home I sit down at the computer and I just enter in the data that I've collected from that day. So yeah that's a little snapshot of what I get up to each day for my job. If you guys are watching this video and you like the look of a job that's both outdoors and indoors then I'll put some links to some university courses in the description below. And don't forget to follow me on Facebook and Instagram. Alright, cheers! Bye!