Which Tractor and Attachments are The Right Choice For Small Farm and Property Owners #tractor #farm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xT6x63HptHE
People & Blogs
 Good morning from Peterson Farms of Nashville. Today we're going to be talking about the top five tractor implements for the beginner. So I'm going to start off with a little disclaimer. Whatever you buy, you need to justify it for the use on whatever current situation that you have, whatever property you have. Now you'll see Kubota land pride attachments in my video only because I looked at many other tractors and it really came down to two choices on the tractor itself and ultimately I chose Kubota. I'll show you some of the reasons here in a little bit. But anyway, so a little bit about my selections with attachments. Really started about a year ago. First time tractor owner. Really knew nothing about tractors. After I did my investigation, made my choice on Kubota. I did buy a couple attachments at the time, solely based on financing and what I could afford monthly at that time for our property here at Peterson Farms. So my priorities in my mind, not knowing anything about tractors, was a little bit different than what it is today. So what I like to do is share my experience after a year of use and purchasing a couple additional attachments that I found most fitting for the uses on our property here. I'm going to at least show you what I suggest were my top five tractor attachments that best suits my needs. And maybe you can get something out of that. And maybe something I share here might help you decide what's best for your property. Obviously you first need to get the base for all the attachments that you potentially may buy. In my case, I did select the Kubota L3301 with the LA525 front loader package. So I knew I wanted a front loader. I knew I needed a tractor. I just didn't know what size tractor at the time. So I met with my Kubota dealer and we sort of explained what I was going to be doing on the property, what my priorities were. And that's the basis of the L3301. 33 horsepower, about 28 at the PTO. Front loader was a must with the quick attach features. I was sold. Easy to take the bucket off and on. And so number one choice, besides the tractor, would be the front loader with the bucket. A must have. So I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I uses for it and I've even developed a pallet system in my storage barn to store things at a higher elevation so pallet forks a must you get the adjustable forks heavy-duty lamb pride frame and it's got the quick attach feature so I can dump that bucket pick these forks up hit those levers take off and go pick up logs pallets whatever the case might be and I'll show you a couple examples of that here shortly foreign Então So, let's go. All right, well, pallet forks are my number two choice. Then, a close second, but number three choice would be the greater box. Six foot, in this case, Lamb Pride, three-point hitch capable. It's got the cutter blades, one, two, three, four, five, six cutter blades on it, and they're pretty easy to adjust the height of the cutter blades. So, out of all the attachments that I've used, I probably have used this the most besides the bucket. But the pallet forks are definitely getting ready to surpass the greater bucks. But, you can also make money doing driveways and miscellaneous land improvements for people and pick up a few bucks. So, let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. If you don't hit me up here fast, it is a coolChristmasseTV. the study class is about 24 hours as long as possible. Don't beruffable. You can probably keep drawing down these tasks. In an attachment you have home. A three-five-castle car pit on it, which is тSetAAAAAAAAAAAAAAhardly furlough,that is a matter of like five inches rotating 7 cm. need it go! Number four on my list of attachments, not made by Lamb Pride, but I actually picked it up at Rural King RK. It's a carry-all, three-point hitch, and it will hook up to the rear three-point hitch on your tractor. It's not that heavy, and it's super inexpensive, under $200, so great value. But it's got basically forks on it, and then can pick up lower pallets, IBC totes. Very handy tool. So I definitely would recommend one of these in your top five. In my case, it would be my top four. And150WF denkt in theainted父's hair. . Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Don't get me wrong. I love both these attachments. I'm glad I have them. But if I were to have my choice, I probably would have got the gravel. Number six would be the tiller. The Land Pride 58 inch tiller. I have used it a tremendous amount and you can also make money with it. I've made quite a few tractor payments between it and the greater box and the front loader. So with those three implements, you can definitely help pay for your tractor. The finish mower, what I know now, it does a great job. It leaves a beautiful cut. But I probably would have saved my money on the finish mower because I had a zero turn mower that can cut the grass, cut it quicker, cut it easier. It's just not as comfortable. It's just not as comfortable. It's just not as comfortable. Take a path. It was flavored and I Evangelical or圧pinotiats, it's just snip them up. I need a greenphys and iron for course, I want to show that with a new beaten pecys are simple and kind of step into it and out. It's too low to get ahead. When I use the collagen um often to I have, you can see the meaning of theamoto Moon created. The年orsa time has worked for several parts, how it has made it very holy mower, I don't see any of the laboratories. I helped to figure out that your pelvis is a creech and Voldem pretty well. ... so i hope that was helpful and uh just to recap number one attachment would be the front loader bucket on my tractor number two attachment be the pallet forks number three attachment would be the box blade number four attachment would be the rk carry-on and top five in my choice would have been the front loader gravel with the third function kit so hope that helps you understand what my needs were and the explanation and maybe they coincide with what yours are if not keep watching videos you are sure to find someone who is in the same situation or you can relate to on what your tractor needs might be so until next time hope you enjoyed this video if you did please hit that like button share and subscribe and look out for more videos on each of these implements and how i implement them into the work life of the farm here thanks for watching have a great day and god bless