DON'T BUY THESE! 2 Tractor Attachments I NEVER Use Anymore!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xtCmZwnSADs
Autos & Vehicles
 All right, I'm out here checking the pumpkin this evening, and this big girl is measuring 279 pounds. And we got 21 more days to the weigh off. Well, welcome back to the channel, everybody. My name's CJ, and today I wanted to make a video about two tractor attachments that I never use anymore. And I thought this might be helpful to maybe keep you from buying something that you don't need if you share the same views as I do. But I don't use these things. They're sitting in my garage. And actually, one of them I got rid of. And I just wanted to share with you because I made videos years ago on both of these whenever I got them. So the first one, I have it sitting here, and it's got dust all over it to prove that I'm not using it. And that is the quick hitch. And that might be surprising to you. Because like I said, I made a video on this thing. But I have not liked this quick hitch really since I got it. And the main reason is, let me show you. Okay, so one thing, if you want to use the quick hitch, you have to have bushings for these hooks to go around. And that's not a big deal. You got to put bushings on all your attachments. Problem was, I was getting so many different attachments at a quick pace, and I didn't have enough bushings. So then I had to end up switching it out. That wasn't the main issue. The main issue was this hook right here. This hook doesn't sit far enough out this way towards the tractor. And so I was never able to put two pins through here, because I'd always have to have this hook hanging out to attach to the top links on most of my attachments. And that was another reason I didn't like it. But really, for me, once you get enough experience hooking up stuff, it's really not a big deal. Especially with all the different adjustments and, you know, stabilizer arms and stuff like that. If you don't have turnbuckles on your tractor arms, you can put something on your tractor and hook it up pretty quick. So in the end, as you can see, this has got all kinds of dust, and I don't use it anymore. Now for the next one, I'm not going to tell you what it is. I'm going to show you some clips from the video that I made years ago where I was talking it up. Okay, so there are our $161 set of forks for the tractor. And they are clamp-on. They clamp right onto the bucket. And what's nice about this set, they also have the adjustable stabilizer bar just to keep them from going side to side. Yeah, just like that. It just seats right down onto the bottom of the bucket. And I'm not going to put it too tight. We'll put that down, that little foot. Okay, we'll give that a little tighten with the wrench. Let's go. Let's go. I will say they did kick a little bit when I went underneath that log and tried to pick it up. It kicked to the side a little bit. With that being said, if you're going to buy a set of these, I would definitely recommend getting a set with this stabilizer bar going across to both forks. If it wasn't for that, they probably would have kicked all the way to the side. But they didn't move that much with this stabilizer bar. For $161, these things are going to be able to do everything that I need them to do. Whenever I watched that video back, I started laughing because that was a guy who didn't know what he was talking about. That was me trying to save money. Those clamp on forks cost about $161. I didn't want to pay $600, $700 for a regular quick attach set of forks. I think that's what they were at the time. So I told myself, hey, hey, I'll never pick up anything heavy and I won't need anything more than this. Well, let me tell you, just save up your money. That's my advice. Save up your money. Get you a good set of strong forks. And that is something that I use all the time. In fact, they're on my tractor right now. My XR 4040. And I use those forks all the time. And if you don't have a grapple, you know, we use them for firewood to pick up the logs and stuff like that. But picking up pallets, unloading trucks, you know, there's so many uses for them. Why not just save up and get a good set of forks? And in the end, what I ended up doing with those clamp on forks was Christmas time, I went and gave them to my dad. And his idea for him was to get chain binders, hook it around the clamp on fork and then attach it to the top of the bucket. And he tried that a few times. But here not too long ago, he was cleaning out his garage and he asked me, he said, hey, you want those clamp on forks back? I said, nope, nope. They're all yours. So now I think they're sitting outside along his garage somewhere because he doesn't use them either. And then the other thing, even though those clamp on forks had a stabilizer bar in the center, they would still kick to the side and almost come off the bucket. And I can't imagine how much those things would kick if you didn't have that stabilizer bar in the middle. And in the end, we don't want to bend the buckets on our tractors. That's going to make, you know, trying to pick up gravel, dirt, it's going to make it that much more difficult. And who wants to bend or break anything on our tractor? And that's what you're potentially going to do. Even if you're not trying to do it, it's going to happen. Now, I know this is a short video, but this is a video I've been wanting to make for quite a while. And especially with the holidays, they'll be coming up here soon enough. I wanted to make this just in case someone's looking for a tractor gift for somebody. You might want to think about how you're going to use them. Now, the quick hitch, if you had three attachments, I think the quick hitch could be really useful. You could dial that quick hitch in to where it would fit all three attachments easily. But after watching some other videos of guys, the Pat's easy change hitch, I think that could be more useful for somebody. That's just my opinion. I've never used one before, but I probably won't get one because like I said, with all the different ways to adjust the extendable arms and then the adjustable side to side on these new tractors, I don't see a reason why I even need a quick hitch or Pat's easy change or anything. I'm just going to hook up to my implements. Like I said, just a short, quick video. We got a lot coming up, so stay tuned for that. And once I get this pumpkin done, I'll be able to move into a whole lot more. I've got all kinds of projects I want to get done before winter. So be sure to subscribe. And if you like this video, give us a thumbs up and we'll see you next time. Thanks for watching.