Unknown Title
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xTH53UGaD7o
Unknown Category
 It's breakfast time, time to get some grub out of the garden. I think this is Comet Sunat. I sowed about a month, not sowed, planted about a month ago. It's taken a bit of a hammering from, not a hammering, a slight smattering of slug damage. I use this like spinach. I have a few days with these. These are Snappy Nairobi, sown in early July. I have a few days with these. I have a few days with these. These are Snappy Nairobi, sown in early July. I harvested a big squash from here. I have another one growing. I have some beans I think. I have some African Blue Basil. Some more I think. Some flower shoots of Chinese chives, garlic chives. Really quite tasty. The best in a sandwich. I am going to do a stir fry. There we go. I am going to do a quick stir fry with that. This is the worm bin. I have some, let's see what we have underneath. Look at that beautiful. I don't know whether you can see the thousands of. Little buggers are in there. Squaring away. I have finally cracked the farming worms now. I have thousands of them which is a good thing. I will pop the kitchen waste in here. I am off visiting Jackers Herb farm in Gloucestershire. She has open days five or six times a year. Quite a famous herb person. I shall show you around. I will go toham called hidingress Jeez to Georg. I see a seafood, Oh look, this chap, is this, what this? Try. Tipping up over one of my manhole covers. Thank you. No, I didn't know you were doing that either. You alright enjoying it? I found the split. You'll see a couple of split down to my hand. Because you have a hail smell, where they were called flowers. So then the combination of the hail and the actual flowers, if you like, made it. So, this is a lesson in why, what I've been managing about. Technically couldn't. If it's getting too hot, I don't mind doing anything. I'm used to it. I used to lecture on ships. People used to come in, take a look at... I might have overdone it with buying stuff from Jacka. It's cost me a fortune. I'm going to have to be repotting all of this. It's all... Because it needs... It's going to need to survive the winter. This is like a peppery leaf thing. And a nice, I think it's a Cretan herb of some sort. Oregano or something. I really went there to get this, which is... Sampha, Cliff Sampha, or Rock Sampha. And instead I got that and all of this. So I'm totally mad. Anyway, there you go. All right, then I'm a little bit. I love this so much. I know that I got aJacka. I'm SFX, toongазывrials. That's so cute... Seriously? Yeah? This is fun first. Then I'm eating together in the countries that go outside. It's therière option when we toured together. I need some food.. I pets here. I'm basically saying that if that comes in Gumi is expensive, I'm interviewed all of those two other schools. That's so cool though I was boatman. I'm potting up some plants for a little bit. I'm not going to make a lot of water for keeping overwintered indoors with central heating. One of the biggest problems is root rot. So you have to make your soil in your pots really free-draining. So I put half grit and half volume of compost. I'll put a little bit of organic fertiliser in as well. Give us the maximum chance of keeping the plants alive over the winter. On our5-7 dish of a soda measuring This is a pot round. It's very hard to get out of our pots. What we're going to do is... I'm going to use a bigger pot. I think I'll use a bigger pot. It's a bit deeper this one. I'm going to loosen a few of the roots. This is the burn jelly plant. Bulbean frutescens. It's not edible. It's to be applied externally. Well, don't take your own medical advice. But this is what Untold it does. So, yes. It's very, very tender. It's an African plant. It's going to be staying indoors. It has a very pretty flower. Let's see if we can get a shot of that. I want to see. It's pretty in full flower. This is the last remaining couple of florets of it. So, in full flower it's very pretty. We shall see that when it flowers next. This is the water pepper plant. It looks a little bit lanky now. I'm going to clean it up. But these, if you see... We're getting new shoots coming out here. So what else you'll do is probably cut it back to about there. And let it regrow. I'm being cruel to be kind. It'll grow into a better plant. I'll then repot it. The leaves are eaten and it's... Yeah, they're quite peppery. It's related to the Vietnamese coriander. The persicaria. I think we see persicaria as well. Different types. Have a look. Persicaria hydropiper. Piper is pepper. Varubra. So it's the red version of the water pepper. Persicaria water pepper. So, let's get started. Over this chat, perfect. I'll need that one I think. I'll need that one. I'll need that one. I'll need that one. I'll need that one. I'll need that one. The nights are closing in again. I've got used to having lots of time in the evening to get things done. But time is racing on again. That's the reason why we've got to get things ready for indoors. And the winter garden. I'll finish up now and do more tomorrow. I'm pleased. They're quite ornamental. The oregano there. It's quite pretty. I think it's related to a Corsican mint. Corsican origata or something like that. I've got a caper bush over there. I want to grow big. That's why it's in a bit of a bigger pot. African jelly. Burn jelly. I'm really great for the flowers. Let's face it. This is a persicaria. Because the other persicaria I've got, the Vietnamese coriander is so good. And I've tried a few leaves of this. I haven't tried cooking yet. But yeah, so I've got high hopes for that. I tend to eat the Vietnamese coriander, you know, two or three times a week. So hopefully this is a good addition. It's a perennial. So I'm going to try and keep it alive. Take cuttings, that sort of thing. So it should be good value.