Pastured Pig Rotation - Will THIS Help Repair the Paddock?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XtsN-4M0iRQ
Pets & Animals
 Well, hey friends and neighbors, this is Chuck out at Sheraton Park Farms. Welcome back to the farm. So, I'm recording the intro after most of the day. Still got a little bit of stuff to do. But today, we're going to work on our piglets. The ones that we just bought, our new feeders, and then we've got a couple of breeders out of the group. We're going to go down and check on them, do a little bit of work on them. And also, we moved our gilts yesterday, and we moved the mamas yesterday too. We had some folks on the farm that came over and helped us out. We didn't capture any footage of that whenever we done the work yesterday. But we'll show you what we've done with the gilts. And I've got an idea for the paddock that they were on. So, stick around and let's talk about regenerating an area after a set of pigs have moved off of a paddock. So, stick around for that, and let's just kind of see what we end up catching on video here. So, hang around. Let's check in on the piggies this morning. Pumpkin, Pumpkin, Hamlet, Jack, one of our little girls from the mamas up there, the red one right there. And then our two new guys from Worsham Springs Farm. So, I think we're going to name our little guy here Sammy, as in Ham Sammy. He's coming along nice, looking good. So, I get asked a lot of questions about feeding regimen. These animals here are going to be breeding stock. So, we limit their feed just a little bit. I think everybody gets about two and a half, three pounds a day. And that's plenty for them to gain weight, grow, provide all their nutritional needs. As they get a little bit bigger, we'll up their feed a little bit. We'll just gradually increase them half pound, pound a day until we get up to, you know, about five pounds apiece per day. And then over here, we've got, these are our feeders. A couple more over there in the hut, kind of hiding out. These guys get all they want. We make sure that these feed bowls stay nice and full. I've got a couple of free choice feeders up in the staging area that we just hadn't got down here yet. Because it's just so muddy, getting the tractor in here and tearing everything up. So, we're going to move a free choice feeder down here. But right now, we're just making sure that the bowls are staying nice and full. Everybody gets as much as they want. They're looking good, coming on. I can tell they're starting to grow a little bit already. So, I've only been here a couple of days. And they're doing really, really good. Got a water barrel over here. Both of them have got a water barrel. Just because I don't have enough of the automatic waters. So, we make sure that they've got plenty of fresh, clean water every day. Fill them up, make sure they're good to go. So, there's the piglets. Everybody's looking good, doing good. Still got a bunch we've got to get off of the mamas up top. So, hoping to make that happen this afternoon. We'll see how it goes. We'll see you next time. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. Y'all will see this video on Christmas Eve. And that's tomorrow from when I'm filming. But we'll be gone to family most of the day tomorrow. And it's supposed to get down to about 19 degrees I think here tomorrow night. And we wanted to make sure that everybody had plenty of good bedding. So had some hay left from where we had went and got these guys. And just unloaded it out of the trailer and brought some of it down and put it in their huts. So that should give them a nice cozy place tomorrow night whenever it gets so cold. So we'll make sure they've got plenty of feed, plenty of water, all that kind of stuff. So we're getting everybody ready for a little cold weather. So we got our gilt group moved yesterday. Had some visitors on the farm. And David was around all day yesterday to help. So we didn't capture any footage of it because it was just a pretty simple move. Three of us got these guys moved. Gosh, in about 15 minutes. It was really nice to have a couple extra hands to get stuff done. We got the gilt group moved over. So they're on a new paddock. It is directly adjacent to the one that they were on. Not quite as big. We're probably 75 by about 150 here. Previous paddock, we're probably about 150 by 150. But that's okay. Got them on a good spot here. Fresh grass, lots of new stuff to root around in. Dig around in, scratch for, and that kind of thing. So everybody here is looking good. But this over here is the paddock that they came out of. And you can see they beat this up pretty good. And that's what we want. And that's what we're going to do today. We're going to come back and we're going to overseed this with some seed that we bought from the feed mill where we get all of our feed. So we're going to overseed this up here, up top, which right here on the flat, not a lot of cover. So in terms of trees and that kind of thing. So that's fine. But we're also going to do some seeding down here in the woods just as an experiment to see how it does. And let me get over here to the line. And you can see the difference in where they have been and where they have not. I think we've showed this on some videos in the past. But I mean, this is amazing. So you can see over here on the right hand side of the screen, that's where the pigs have been. Over on the left hand side of the screen is the new spot where they are. And they've only been here about 24 hours. So they've certainly not done much to it. But this area over here where they have been, man, they've really tore this up. I mean, they've dug it up, scratched it up. Looks really nice, nice and fluffy. And so we're going to come back. We're going to overseed this with, I don't remember what all I've got. I think I've got some oats, some rye. We'll have to look and see what all we've picked up from Eric now at the mill. So the question that I get all the time is how long do you leave pigs in a paddock? And that is the question. I mean, you might as well ask me, how long is a piece of string? We determine how long we leave pigs in an area based on what the ground looks like. And this is what we want it to look like. We don't want it to the point where we're going to get a lot of erosion. If we were to get a heavy rain, yeah, we'd probably get a little wash right here. But we don't want a lot of erosion. But we want them to fluff this up. We want them to, you know, get what's on top. We want them to dig around, root around, and just fluff the ground up. Keep in mind that 10 100-pound pigs is going to do a different amount of damage than 10 250-pound pigs on the same space. So some of it is guess. I'll just be honest with you. Some of it is just guesstimate. But another part of it is looking at the plot of land that they're on and determining when it's right to move them. And this is, you know, this may be a little much, but I'm kind of liking this because they've really fluffed it up. There's really no areas that's been left unturned or untouched. So we're going to come in here. We're going to overseed all of it. We also should have a pretty good distribution of manure. I can stand out here right now. I mean, I'm right in the middle of where these pigs have been, and there's no stench. Don't smell a thing other than just, you know, some freshly turned earth. But there's no smell of pig manure or pig urine or anything like that. So this looks good. We're going to come back here in a few minutes. We're going to overseed that. We'll show a little bit of that deal and talk about what we're going to put down. And then we'll just kind of monitor this over the course of the next, you know, few weeks. We did get some winter cover. So we've got stuff that should sprout right now. We've got some really cold weather coming, but we're going to see how it does. This is my first time doing this where the pigs are at. I've done, well, no, I take that back. I've done that once before. Over where the sheep are at right now, we had run some pigs across that and done a little bit of overseeding. We were ready to move them off. But anyway, this is what it looks like. We're going to put a little seed on it and see what happens. Okay, so what we're going to do on this overseeding deal is I've got about 300 pounds of some annual ryegrass, some oats, some wheat. There's just some different stuff. I don't even remember what all I've got. But anyway, we're going to get a couple of five-gallon buckets. We're going to put a few scoops out of each one of them into that and just kind of make up a little bit of a mix. And then we're going to go down where we moved those gilts off yesterday and we're going to overseed all of that. I don't know what's going to work. We're just going to try it and see. But we're going to try to get a little bit of cover growing back on that, prevent erosion, build some soil, get some root structure in there, and just see if we can't keep on improving that little plot of land. So we've got a couple of five-gallon buckets. We're just going to fill them up and we'll go over and see what happens. Okay, so what we're going to do is we're going to take some of that mix. And, you know, again, it's just a couple of different types of ryegrass, some wheat, some oats. I forget what all the ball. This is very non-scientific. We're just going to try to get something growing on this area where these pigs have just come off. Again, just to provide a little bit of ground cover, build some soil, get some root structure in there, and just overall trying to improve the property. So let's take some of this mix, let's put it in the seed sower, and let's run across this thing and throw some seed down, and we'll keep the check on it and see what happens with it. Okay, so I've got this little, I think I got this, it's a Statesman brand seed sower. I mean, it's just a real simple deal. I think I got this maybe at a southern states. I'll look and see if there's one on Amazon. But it works out real good. I've used it a little bit in the past to sow some seed with. So we'll see how well this thing does. So we'll see how well this is. All right, so I put about 10 gallons of seed. I don't know how much that actually ends up being. But I put about 10 gallons of seed just on this small area right here, and then down over the hill. I'm not sure what the seeding rate should be. But, again, this is just primarily an experiment to see what it's going to do. And I didn't want to waste a whole lot of time getting it back down, getting the seed down, because the pigs just moved off yesterday. And I'm afraid if I let it sit for too long without going back and overseeding, that it'll start to get kind of crusty on the top, and we won't get good seed-to-soil contact. I think probably the optimum way to do that, to do this, is to put the seed down while the pigs are still on the paddock about, you know, a couple days before they move off. That way you can get good seed-to-soil contact just through them walking on it and packing it in and stepping on it and that kind of thing. But, you know, we'll see what happens. This is a swag. For those of you that aren't familiar, that's a scientific, wild, astronomical guess. So we'll see what happens with it. You know, nothing ventured, nothing gained. You guys are going to see this video on Christmas Eve. So Saundra and I wish everybody out there a very Merry Christmas. If you don't celebrate Christmas, we wish you a Happy Holidays and whatever it is that you celebrate. We wish everybody a Happy New Year. I'm going to come back and do another video before the end of the year, just kind of a recap on what all we've done this year, what our year has looked like, what we've accomplished, and particularly what we've done on YouTube. It's kind of exceeded our expectations on what's happened to the YouTube channel. And we can't thank you all enough for watching and subscribing and, you know, thumbs up and comment and all that kind of thing. And if you've not subscribed, hit that subscribe button, follow along with us. It's just been, it's amazing. And we're building a nice community here and everybody's just been super. We appreciate all the comments and all the interaction with folks. We've met some super nice people. It's just been, it's been really amazing what's happened. So I'm going to post a link to a video up here that shows what happens to an area after the pigs have been on it and you leave it for a little while and what tends to grow back. If you've not subscribed, again, hit that subscribe button, follow along with us. Appreciate y'all watching. We'll see you on the next video. Thanks.