Factors That Affect Agricultural Production
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xzo2i1iw4bs
Education
 Human and Biotic Factors Human Factors Packing of tea leaves for export produce controls human factors for production availability of ready market for agricultural biotic factors. Climatic Factors Weather pattern affects distribution and production of crops and animals. Rainfall, temperature, wind, and light can be controlled by human to improve agricultural production. Edaphic Factors Good soil management can improve agricultural production. Factors influencing agricultural production. Human factors include all those aspects of human beings that lead either to increased or decreased agricultural production. They may influence agriculture either directly or indirectly. For example, availability of ready market for agricultural produce enables the farmers to gain from their work. This improves the overall activities performance in farming. The above factors influencing agricultural production can be classified into the following categories. Factors which improve production. Good health of the farmer. Availability of money. High taxation on imported agricultural produce. Availability of ready market for agricultural produce. Availability of storage facilities. Liberalized market factors which lower production. Restrictive cultural and religious beliefs. Poor road network. Level of education and technology. Level of education and technology. This is translated as the ability of a producer who is a farmer to apply appropriate methods and techniques in production, using available resources, for example, ensure-efficiency farming techniques. Mechanized harvesting of wheat. Good education level makes a farmer able to understand and translate technical language in farming. Health. A healthy nation is a productive nation. The following are some of the diseases that contribute to lowering agricultural productivity. Malaria. Tuberculosis. Typhoid. Pneumonia. And HIV-AIDS. Effects of HIV-AIDS on farming. Loss of skilled labor. Time spent caring for the infected. Money spent on treatment. Healthy workers are productive. How does HIV-AIDS affect farming in your area? Human factors. They are factors in human beings or the way human beings do things. The following is a list of human factors that influence agricultural production. Levels of education and technology. Health of the farmers. State of economic development. Transport and communication network. Government policy on agricultural input and produce taxation. Availability of storage facilities. Cultural and religious beliefs. Local and international market forces. Agriculture is a foreign exchange earner. The capital earned from economic activities such as farming is used to raise economic growth in the country. Good communication network. Good and efficient infrastructure is important for the smooth flow of farm produce from the farm to the consumer. Improving rural roads through tarmacking. The improvement of technology and communication has improved farmers' access to important information from the research stations and other fellow farmers. Government policy. The government of Kenya, through different ministries, formulates guidelines to be followed by producers of different products. After the guidelines and proposals are legislated, they become policies. Biotic factors influencing agricultural production. These are living organisms that affect agricultural production. Biotic factors influencing agriculture can be divided into the following classes. Crop pests. Stock borer damaging maize in the field. Hi guys. If this is the first time you've come to my channel, please go down the bottom, hit that subscribe, and turn on all notifications so you can get notified every time I post a brand new video similar to this. Keep watching. Keep watching.