Discover the Master of Agricultural Sciences
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y33Nl7Vfyro
Science & Technology
 The Master of Agricultural Sciences here at the University of Melbourne is a two-year program. It has five specialisations and it has numerous entry points. The five specialisations are agribusiness, animal science, agricultural extension and innovation, crop and soil sciences and food sustainability. The structure of the program is that most of the core subjects are done in the first year and in the second year either a research project or an internship is carried out. Students tell me that the thing they like the most about the course is the practical program. It's actually getting out, getting your hands dirty, looking at real agricultural science. Agricultural sciences is becoming more and more important these days and it's partly due to our increasing population. There's an extra billion people that are expected to be on the planet within the next 20 or so years and so that causes issues with food supply and so agricultural sciences is all about the study of agriculture and it's where we get our food from. Some of the strengths of the Master of Agricultural Sciences at the University of Melbourne are that the teaching staff are actually discipline experts and they are involved in research projects that inform their teaching. In this degree program there's the opportunity for students to actually go and stay at our rural farm at Dookie and some of the advantages of that that they can see agriculture in practice and that it leads to a greater understanding of some of the theoretical concepts that we introduce in our classroom. There are both industry and research projects available to students. Some students may prefer to do the industry placement and the industry placement can help them understand how their industry works. For other students the ability to do a research project allows them to build on some of the experience they have prior to enrolling in the degree. A good example of a research project that was carried out by one of my students was a research project looking at NDVI images and interpreting potential wheat yields. After he finished that 50 point program he went on to enrol in a PhD program and that project has been extremely successful. Job options in agricultural science are very varied and they are well addressed by our specialisations within the degree program. For graduates of this course there are lots of job opportunities. Most students that leave an agricultural science program are employed within a year. The area of agricultural science is expanding as our knowledge of the world expands and one of the areas that there's a lot of attention at the moment is satellite imaging, big data and AI. These areas will require more skilled workers to help skilled workers in the future. We know that there is a shortage of skilled workers in agricultural science and we expect that into the future as our population expands and the need to feed our population grows that there will be more and more jobs available in agriculture. We know that there is a lot of people in agriculture.