Pesticides in the Environment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ydPW2PyEXHg
Education
 This presentation of Pesticides and the Environment is presented by the Montana State University Extension Pesticide Education Program. This presentation covers pesticide properties in regards to environmental contamination, pesticide behavior after application, drift, and other pesticide related environmental concerns. The main question this presentation addresses is what happens to pesticides after application. We will discuss how pesticides move within the environment, variables affecting their persistence, specific impact pesticides may cause once applied, and how you can reduce negative impacts of your pesticide applications. In this presentation, we use a lot of specific property values of pesticides we do not expect you to remember. However, you may want to look these values up in the future. We have a lot of the information included in this video presented in our MONC guide titled Pesticides and the Environment. In the table listed in the publication, you will find many of the property values we list in this talk. However, if the pesticide active ingredient you are interested in is not listed, you can go to the website listed under the table or the National Pesticide Information Center and look up the information for your pesticide. Another useful publication is a MONC guide titled Minimizing Pesticide Contaminated Soil Around the Home and Garden. This publication details how to manage inputs in your garden to reduce pesticide contamination. All MONC guides are free to download and can be found on the online MSU Extension store at store.msuextension.org. Before we get started on the presentation, I want to cover two definitions, target impacts and non-target impacts. Target impacts are the impacts you are intending to create with your pesticide application, such as controlling the pest on the intended site or crop. Non-target impacts are negative results of your pesticide application you are not intending to create, such as negatively impacting water, air, or soil, or impacting sensitive sites like humans, animals, or desirable plants. You want target impacts and do not want non-target impacts. I will use these terms throughout this presentation. When we discuss pesticide mobility, we are specifically talking about how a pesticide moves in the environment once it has been applied. There are four main pathways of pesticide movement. Runoff, leaching, volatilization, and drift. The ability of a pesticide to move by these pathways is determined by pesticide properties, including absorption potential, water solubility, vapor pressure, and persistence or half-life. Additionally, local conditions, including climate and soil properties, play a large role in how a pesticide will move. First, we will discuss how a pesticide moves in water specifically through runoff. Runoff is the movement of water over the soil surface. Pesticides can dissolve in water and be carried into water bodies, including irrigation ditches, streams, rivers, or ponds, potentially leading to surface water pollution. The reason why this matters is for the health of the water body, but also drinking water quality and the potential to have non-target impacts downstream. Pesticide movement through water is determined by the water solubility of the pesticide. In other words, how easily a pesticide dissolves in water, measured in milligrams per liter or parts per million. This table shows a breakdown of water solubilities into low, moderate, and high. If the pesticide has a high water solubility, it will easily dissolve and therefore move with water. A low water solubility will not dissolve in water and will be unlikely to move with water. This is a table of common pesticides and several pesticide properties which will be used throughout this presentation. Right now we want to look at the blue column listing pesticide water solubilities. You can see the range is large from 2 parts per million to 900,000 parts per million. In general, a low solubility, like that of benomol, will not dissolve in water while a high solubility like 2,4-D amine or glyphosate will dissolve easily in water. Common causes of pesticides moving through runoff include applying a pesticide within an irrigation canal, applying a pesticide immediately before a major precipitation event, and not using buffers near aquatic areas. This can also include irrigation. Another method of pesticide movement with water is through leaching. Leaching is the movement of water through a soil profile instead of over the surface. Once again, water can carry dissolved pesticides, but this time the water is moving down into the soil and may eventually contact groundwater. Groundwater contamination is very concerning because 50% of Montanans drink well water. It is also extremely difficult and costly to remediate groundwater for human consumption. Pesticides moving with water into the soil will depend on the water solubility of the pesticide, soil properties, and other factors like precipitation and irrigation. Another pesticide property we are going to discuss is soil adsorption. This is the measurement of how well a pesticide binds with soil particles. This is measured by the adsorption coefficient or KOC. If the pesticide has a strong adsorption potential, the pesticide will bind easily to soil particles and remain immobile in the soil. If a pesticide has a weak adsorption potential, it will not bind easily to soil particles and it will move easily within the soil. We also need to discuss the difference between absorption with a B and adsorption with a D. Absorption means a material moves uniformly throughout, such as plants taking up pesticides into their tissues. Absorption with a D means a material is attached to the outside of another substance, like pesticides attached to the outside of a soil particle. Here is the pesticide properties table again. The highlighted column shows the KOC of the listed pesticides or the adsorption potential. This tells you how strongly a pesticide will attach to soil particles. Low values equal low adsorption potential and high values equal high adsorption potential. The range we see here goes from 7.2 up to 40,000. In this case, will picloram move easily within the soil? The answer is yes, because it has a low adsorption potential. Picloram can move easily within the soil and may be a hazard to groundwater. This is why it is a restricted use pesticide. What about glyphosate? Remember glyphosate had a very high solubility. However, it also has a high KOC. In this case, the KOC overrides the solubility, meaning glyphosate will not move easily within the soil. This is why glyphosate is a general use product and doesn't pose a risk to groundwater. Soil is high in sand content will not absorb pesticide particles readily. However, soils high in clay have a larger overall surface area and will absorb more pesticide particles. Soils high in organic matter will facilitate even higher adsorption. We have covered pesticide movement with water and will now touch on pesticide movement with air. This can happen through volatilization or when a pesticide is converted into a gas, or through other types of drift and can depend on the vapor pressure of the pesticide. Movement of pesticides through the air can be a huge concern as pesticides can move off-site and cause non-target impacts. The vapor pressure of the pesticide is how volatilization is measured. In this diagram, we use the vapor pressure index to show low, medium, and high vapor pressure. When a pesticide has a high vapor pressure, it will turn into a gas easily, and with a low vapor pressure, the pesticide will not turn into a gas easily. Looking at the pesticide properties table, we can compare the vapor pressures of all the pesticides listed. The range listed here is from 0.0079 for 2,4-D amine up to 338 for dicamba. Volatilization of dicamba products have become an important issue in the past few years. Additionally, we often hear of the debate as to which pesticide is better, 2,4-D amine or 2,4-D ester. Although the ester generally has a higher efficacy, it is extremely volatile. Care must be taken when spraying under warm conditions using 2,4-D ester. Applicators often use 2,4-D amine, which can be sprayed over a wider array of temperatures. Pesticides can move with air through drift. There are three types of drift including vapor drift, particle drift, and spray drift. Vapor drift occurs when a pesticide volatilizes from a surface such as plant surfaces, soil surfaces, or water surfaces. Once in a gaseous form, the pesticide can drift off-site and cause non-target impacts. This process is impacted by temperature, humidity, wind, and the vapor pressure of the pesticide. The higher the temperature, the higher the wind speed, and the lower the humidity equals higher volatility of a pesticide. A real-life example of vapor drift has been causing issues all over the U.S. starting in 2016. Monsanto created dicamba-resistant soybean crops before a low-volatility dicamba product had made it through EPA registration. Farmers planted the crops anyway, then illegally sprayed the highly volatile conventional dicamba products, resulting in widespread damage. In just 2016, this damage led to 124 complaints of pesticide drift, a murder, 141,000 acres of non-target crop damage, huge losses to the peach industry, and numerous lawsuits. It also resulted in tighter restrictions on use of dicamba products. Another type of drift is particle drift. Particle drift occurs when pesticides move off-site with wind-blown soil and other particles. This photo is a good example. There is a lot of bare soil, and you can see wind causing soil particles to become suspended. These particles can move out of the field they are in and cause non-target impacts in other locations. In an incident reported by one of our Extension agents, a sugar beet farmer asked for an investigation as to why plants were not growing in part of his field. It was determined that oil field operators sprayed a persistent soil sterilant around equipment in April. In June, the farmer saw reduced emergence of his crop around the equipment. Since April, when the pesticide was sprayed, particles of soil had moved off-site and impacted the farmer's field, preventing crop growth. Here is another example of damage due to pesticide drift. In this case, the drift was due to spray drift. This is supposed to be a square research plot in which the applicator applied the pesticide product in two hive winds, causing off-site damage. Spray drift occurs during application of pesticides when the pesticide particles do not settle and move off-site. This happens with all spray equipment. The factors that influence spray drift include wind, droplet size, and spray tip height. One way of reducing drift is to adjust your application equipment. Lowering the boom height will reduce the distance fines will travel off-site. Reducing your speed will decrease drift and you can also use equipment such as wind screens. Another very effective way to reduce drift is to increase the droplet size of your spray equipment. You can do this by lowering the pressure in your sprayer or using drift-reducing nozzles. The diagram shows different sized droplets and how far they travel in the same wind speed. The 20 micron droplet, or the smallest droplet listed here, traveled 125 meters in a 3 meter per second wind. However, the 100 micron droplet, a mid-sized droplet, only traveled 5 meters in the same wind speed. The largest droplet of 400 microns only traveled 0.3 meters. If you can increase the size of the droplets your application equipment produces, you can greatly decrease the distance those droplets will travel. Low drift nozzles are designed to produce larger spray droplets with fewer driftable fines. The extended range flat fan nozzle is a standard nozzle which can be used with a lower pressure to increase droplet size. This is a technology created in the 80's and doesn't currently represent a true low drift nozzle due to newer technologies. The turbulence chamber design reduces pressure within the nozzle to increase droplet size and reduce fines. These nozzles can decrease drift up to 50% from the extended range nozzles. The air induction design, or venturi nozzle, incorporates air into the spray droplets to create larger droplets. Depending on the generation of air induction nozzle you can see reductions from 50 to 75% when compared to extended range nozzles. Applicators should note that with decreases in drift come decreases in coverage. These low drift technologies are not compatible with all pesticide chemistries, especially contact pesticides which commonly demand more coverage. Making decisions on when to apply pesticides can greatly reduce drift. There is less of a chance of volatilization if a pesticide is applied in low temperatures and high humidity. Do not spray when temperatures are over 85 degrees Fahrenheit or when wind speeds exceed 10 miles per hour. Additionally, be careful if wind speeds are lower than 3 miles per hour as this may indicate an inversion. Montana experiences temperature inversions frequently, which can cause drift. Inversions happen when warm air rises and cool air sinks starting at around dusk. This decreases air mixing and the pesticide droplets stay in the air instead of settling on the ground. Inversions can be identified if the following conditions are met. If there is little or no wind. The area has been experiencing a high pressure system. There are low lying clouds or dust in the air like the photo. Low humidity and dew or frost on the ground. If you suspect there is an inversion, do not spray, as pesticide spray during inversions have been known to travel miles. A test you can do to determine an inversion is to drive down a dirt road. If the dirt hangs in the air, then there is an inversion. I have covered the major pathways of pesticide movement in the environment. Now I will talk about pesticide persistence or how long a pesticide lasts before being broken down into inert compounds. Persistence is measured by the half-life and can vary based on factors influencing degradation. A pesticide's half-life is the amount of time it takes for half the active ingredient to break down. There are three categories of persistence based on the half-life including non-persistent or less than 30 days, moderately persistent 30 to 100 days, and persistent which is greater than 100 days. Viewing the pesticide property table, we can see that the half-life of the listed pesticides ranges from one day to one day. If you spray malphion, do you need to be concerned about impacts it may have within the environment? No, because it breaks down so quickly. However, picloram could cause some damage if used incorrectly since it has a half-life of 239 days. This is one key pesticide property that made picloram products restricted use. Pesticide persistence is influenced by pesticide degradation. Pesticides degrade through microbial activity, chemical activity, and sunlight. Eventually all that is left is water, carbon dioxide, and minerals. The rate of degradation depends on the pesticide's chemistry and the conditions of where it is applied. Microbial degradation is influenced by soil characteristics and the availability of water. There are a number of microorganisms like bacteria and fungi that use pesticides as food. As the microbes feed on pesticides, they break them down. Soils that are warm have adequate moisture, oxygen, and a favorable pH provide the right conditions for rapid pesticide degradation. Simple chemical reactions incurred in the soil. Something as simple as a mixing of water in the pesticide can result in acid or alkaline hydrolysis that causes chemicals to break down. Alkaline hydrolysis is a breakdown of acid pesticides within high pH soils. Any pH over 7 is considered highly alkaline. Again, soil properties and conditions affect which chemical reactions take place and how quickly. Photodegradation is a breakdown of chemicals through solar radiation and is a major factor of breakdown for many pesticides on plant, water, and soil surfaces. However, once pesticides enter the soil, photodegradation has no effect. You've probably experienced the effect of photodegradation where the sun is responsible for chemical breakdown, like when your nylon tarp wears out. This is why you are instructed to hang your laundered pesticide application clothing out to dry in the sun as the sun breaks down any remaining pesticide residue. One of the issues of pesticide persistence is pesticide carryover. This happens when a pesticide remains active in the soil past a growing season and may negatively affect the next year's crop. Drought conditions can exacerbate this by not removing pesticides through leaching and slowing degradation processes. This graph shows the difference in pesticide persistence in a normal year and a drought year. Weeks after herbicide application is listed on the horizontal axis and percent herbicide remaining is listed on the vertical axis. In the scenario presented in the graph in a wet year, a producer can switch to a susceptible crop after just 20 weeks. However, in a dry year, the same producer may not be able to switch to a susceptible crop for 60 weeks. This is due to the residual pesticide in the soil and rates of degradation. When might you be concerned about pesticide carryover? You'll be concerned about pesticide carryover if you do crop rotation, before and after using a persistent pesticide, if you are selling treated hay to be used for livestock feed, when you are planting susceptible plants or crops in future seasons, and when you are in drought conditions. If you are someone interested in composting or selling manure, you need to understand pesticide carryover. Some persistent products do not break down during the composting process or in animal digestive tracts. When the resulting compost or manure is used where susceptible plants are, like a vegetable or ornamental garden, damage can be widespread. This image is located on the milestone label, which is a commonly used general use product. The image and the accompanying text tell the applicator the restrictions on compost and manure use. If you do not follow these guidelines and damages caused, you as the applicator are liable. These are common examples of highly persistent herbicides which can persist for long periods of time. There are four active ingredients which cause a lot of the damage associated with this problem, including picloram, clopyralid, aminopyralid, and aminocyclopirochlor. We have now discussed how pesticides move in air and water and the associated pesticide properties. Together this information can tell us if a pesticide is likely to be an issue in the environment once it is applied. The pesticide characteristics together equal the overall leaching potential of each pesticide listed on this table in the right-hand column. You'll notice picloram has a very high leaching potential due to its long half-life and low KOC. Glyphosate, on the other hand, has an extremely low leaching potential due to its high KOC. You can find this information for pesticides commonly used in Montana in our Pesticides in the Environment Montguide, or on the National Pesticide Information Center website. As a pesticide applicator, you need to be aware of sensitive areas and non-target organisms. You should make sure your applications do not affect the following groups. Humans, including schools, playgrounds, parks, hospitals, and nursing homes. Animals, including wildlife refuges, beehives, endangered species and habitats. Plants, including yards, gardens, and susceptible field crops. And all aquatic areas and any indoor areas. These people, places, and areas will influence your spray timing and overall pesticide application plan. Remember you are liable as the applicator for any non-target impacts you cause. One of the non-target organisms I listed in the last slide were bees, or pollinators. The reason why this is an issue is pollinators are very sensitive to pesticides. They are also very important for the health of crops. Bees can be exposed to pesticides through direct exposure, drift, or through residues. Precautions you need to take will be listed in the Environmental Hazards Statement on the pesticide label. Some ways to reduce impacts to pollinators is to spray before dawn, when crops and weeds are not flowering, and during cooler temperatures. During these conditions, pollinators are often in protected areas such as their hives, where the pesticide will have less of an impact on the colonies. It is also encouraged to speak with any local beekeepers about your plans, as they can sometimes move hives or take other precautions if needed. An example of what not to do happened in South Carolina in September of 2016. A community was spraying for mosquitoes for the Zika virus and ended up killing millions of bees. The problems were that the applicator gave the beekeepers very short notice to take precautions with their hives, and they sprayed after dawn during hot weather. These actions caused many people to go out of business. One of the most proactive and easy ways to reduce impacts of pesticides is to read and follow the pesticide label. There is a lot of good information located on the label, including application timing, crop and grazing intervals, implications for composting, as well as environmental hazard statements. Here is the environmental hazard statement on the picloram label. The top red box is around a statement which says picloram may contaminate groundwater. The bottom red box states why picloram may contaminate surface water. It goes on to say you should avoid contamination to surface water through drift. It also explains how you can take measures to reduce negative impacts. At this point in the video, we recommend you download the core topic story problem packet listed on our website next to the links for the videos. Pause the video at the next slide while you complete the story problem on pages 4 and 5 with the title Pesticides and the Environment. You will need to use the milestone label which starts on page 14. When you are done, restart the video for the answers. Pause the video here while you complete the story problem. Question 1. What parts on the label list environmental concerns? There are several sections of the label which state environmental concerns, including the environmental hazard statement on page 15, use precautions on page 16, and restrictions for all uses on page 17. Question 2. Identify the sensitive areas and potential non-target organisms within the image. These include humans, residential yards, ornamental plants, the school, and streams. Question 3. How might the farmer reduce non-target impacts to the sensitive areas and non-target organisms? The farmer can reduce impacts by spraying when residents are unlikely to be outside. He can also use buffers around the school and streams, and he also needs to take precautions to be aware of pollinators in the area. Question 4. In field number 1 are too small streams. Does the farmer need to worry about applying milestone to these areas? Yes. The label states, do not apply directly to water. Take care to minimize the incidental overspray along the shoreline when applying at the water's edge. This statement can be found on page 15 under environmental hazards. Question 5. The farmer plans to graze the area later in the summer and may sell the manure for compost. Do you have any advice for the farmer? On page 17 under pasture and rangeland restrictions, it states to not use the manure from animals feeding on hay treated with milestone and compost. So the farmer should not sell the manure for composting. Question 6. Based on the conditions and your knowledge of the milestone label, should the farmer continue his planned application? If not, what are your recommendations? I would recommend that farmer delay his application as there may be precipitation within 24 hours and this could cause surface water runoff of the pesticide. This concludes the presentation of pesticides and the environment. If you have any questions about this topic, please contact our office or your local Extension agent. Thank you. Thank you.