Buying a Used Round Baler - How to / What to Look For
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YFiohC9qqY8
Howto & Style
 This video assumes that you're looking for a used round baler and don't have any or much experience with one. I'm going to point out what to look for and describe how some of the parts work so that you can better understand what to look for in your evaluation. I bought my baler used. It had 3,000 bales on it and now has somewhere between 10-11,000 so I'm getting into more maintenance issues. I've had it for over 10 years, perhaps 12 to 13 and I try to keep mine sheltered all the time. Let's start at the front. Now this one has a drive shaft here. It's got plastic here that's been damaged and if you want to know why that happens it's because I was running a quick hitch and that hitch at one point was not high enough when I was turning and so the hitch came in started touching this thing as it was spinning and basically caused it to sever itself. That does no harm to the unit itself but that explains why. Here's another one up here or more damage. So we start at the front. The tractor is going to be connected here. This one has a CV or constant velocity joint and that basically means is that there's a couple U-joints in here, you know sets of U-joints. There's one here and there's one here behind here and that allows your tractor to be able to turn as you're rotating and still be able to run power through the unit and not shake itself to death. So it's a very important part of having a baler otherwise you're going to go straight line only and you're not going to be able to turn and if you do it's going to be the heck on your tractor and on your baler. So we've got a pickup here. In your pickup you have to understand how it's going to operate. This one here uses tines that pick up the the crop and starts to rotate it up and sends it back to here. Then behind here there's something and you can see these little yellow teeth right here. There's a row here that goes halfway across and this new homin and it's going to halfway across alternates and then the other side there's a set that will come up there and follow and basically what it's doing is called a stuffer and it's going to push that crop up into rollers that are behind here that's rolling your crop. There's going to be fingers here. They're going to try to help control what direction it's going. There's a set of fingers here that are going to help control how that hay's coming in and this one happens to have some augers on the side so that it can have wider entrance here. This is a four foot baler so the bale stop side stops here and we can pick up about six feet for a four foot baler for a four foot bale. So you want to just you want to check and make sure everything is working in terms of these things here. Look and scan across here and see if there's anything that's missing. If anything is missing every pair is going to cost you at least five dollars or going to cost you about five dollars in material and it's got lots of them. So and then there's the other thing is is take these and move it back and forth and see how far it moves. Now 10,000 bales this one has a little bit of movement if you've got even more wear than that then you're looking at something that's over 10. Just in general I would say that you really need to be very very careful or super mechanic and be willing to spend a lot of time if you're going to get a baler that's got 10,000 or close to 10,000 or more. You can find them out there in the market that might have 20,000 30,000. Those are going to be coming off of production facilities and they figure that their time is not worth the maintenance costs that they're going to get run into with these things because they do wear out. There's thousands of moving parts in these things and every moving part has a chance to wear out. So these tines will actually break off or sometimes they'll bend. Sometimes they might affect these little guards here. These guards can be unbolted and they come off and all that has to be done in order to change those things out. So it's going to be time and consuming. I left the guard off here. I was putting it back together. I decided to kind of show you that on the ends there's going to be some sort of inside the mechanism here there's some sort of going to be a chain and sprocket system. And if you're going to buy a baler it would it would behoove you to actually take off on each side the cover to see what's going on underneath. That'll tell you how well it's been maintained or not. This happens to be a brand new chain. It's been just lubricated and I had to my stuffer broke. That's up underneath and I had to you have to work on it from underneath. But in the process I ended up replacing seven bearings in doing so. So the drive actually is sitting in the back here. It comes forward for this mechanism which rotates this front which uh let's see what else does it rotate. Oh this one here happens to be that little auger on the side. So you need to check and see what your chain conditions look like. Kind of give you an idea what's going on there. Let's take a look underneath. Oh let's let me go back. There's another comment here. So this one has two hydraulic hoses. Make sure your hoses are good. If not a hundred dollars per hose just in material. Some of them might have an extra pair and that extra pair may take and lift the uh the front pickup. Over here if you're curious here's a lever here for cranking this one up and cranking it down. If you've got hydraulic then you may not have that. There's going to be a piece here which is actually going to be used when you have to re-thread the net wrap. This one happens to have the ability to um to do a net wrap or it can do twine. So your net wrap mechanism you come in here check it out see if everything looks reasonable look at you know basically you're looking to see how well it's maintained and how well it's cared for. On this side here this is actually a brake drum and there's going to be behind here there's a brake. You can take a look at the front edge there see if the condition of that brake pad which is going to stop this drum when it has to finish the net wrap on a bale and so that will give you an idea. Again this has been replaced and so it's in very good condition. If you've got any oil on here it cannot stop that you've got a problem. Let's see let's look up here. Up here is a pressure gauge and this is going to tell you what kind of pressure your system is putting on your bale and that's adjustable. While I'm thinking about it let's talk about how that's adjusted. It's adjusted back here with this lever and this is a lock here and so the tighter this is the higher the pressure will be in your system and uh so the combination of this spring and the hydraulic there's a there's a single cylinder at least on this unit here there's a single cylinder um uh pressure system that builds pressure on that bale in order to control the density of the bale. So anyway so if let's see two years ago probably around 9 000 bales or so I had to redo all of my hydraulics in my system. This is for the tensioning system there's two more cylinders there's one on each side let me open this up here okay here we go uh this one for this baler happens to allow net wrap to be put sorry uh twine to be put in there as well but here is a cylinder here for lifting the back tailgate so that it opens up I had to rebuild this cylinder and the one on the other side I had to rebuild this cylinder so I had to rebuild this cylinder and it's a little more than that I had to do with this and the other side I had to rebuild this cylinder and I had to rebuild this cylinder and I had to replace all my hydraulic hoses for everything and there's a hydraulic hose that goes up there to the gauge in the front that I was showing you. The way that you can test to see if that system is working is you have to hook this unit up to a tractor and then you have to use your hydraulics here right to uh to lift that tailgate and when that tailgate lifts let's say it's halfway then you should see this gauge change and show pressure and so um you're going to do the same thing when you adjust it so you would put the gate down you would adjust that uh valve on the back that determines how much pressure it's going to uh allow maximum and then it bypasses everything else so that let's say I wanted 1600 psi here then I would tighten that valve down I would lift the gate and I would see where it's set here if it's too high I can back the valve off if it's not high enough I can tighten the valve and try again but this is going to be the system so if that's not working you've got a you've got a uh a density problem and you're not going to be able to control the density your bales will be as loose as these springs allow and uh you're going to have some sloppy bales sloppy bales means that they're going to weather easier so on this side uh let's take a look at um what we're what we're doing everything in this thing there's probably I'm going to guess 40 bearings in this unit and when you get up near 10 000 and go over 10 000 by the time you're going to hit 15 you're probably going to be really considering replacing every single bearing or be close to it and if you don't replace them they're going to force you in the middle of a crop bale and it's going to force you to stop repair and it may be on a Saturday night and you can't get any parts until Monday morning and then you've got to spend all day Monday trying to get the thing back going again so you're going to lose uh time and if the weather's not cooperating then you're going to be out and uh having a problem so on this baler some bearings like this one here are going to have their own zerk fitting some and this one here are going to be run by zerk fitting pressure lines here and uh so I can this is actually a zerk fitting zerk fitting and those go to bearings that are in the high side top side of the baler um there are a couple more back here and these are going to go up and they're going to service the uh take a look at it a couple bearings like that so you don't have to be there it's a nice convenient feature on this thing but there still will be some that need to need to be uh lubricated uh like this one here is for another uh arm that moves inside of there some bearings are going to be sealed the bearing here behind here I just replace that one is a sealed bearing the bearing behind here is was re uh sealed and I just replace that one and there's a clutch right here this is actually a pressure plate clutch that uh um the other thing is is that you've got some adjustments on your chains this chain is brand new I just had to replace it I replaced the chain that was inside of here as well and uh so I ended up doing um two more bearings besides my seven that were part of my stuffer and there's one of them that's on my stuffer that I had to replace that one um I'm not looking forward to some of the other ones there's going to be some electric actuators this one has uh operates my net wrap there's one that used to be right here I've got wired in place actually this one used to be over here but when my previous one here um turned to dust the bearings inside of it turned to dust because it got water in there because I used to be pressure washing it after I would use it and that was a bad thing to do because this is not sealed against weather rain pressure washers or anything else and so the water got in there the ball bearing roller bearings that were in there they ended up grinding themselves into dust and uh this is a 400 unit I didn't want to pay 400 so I confiscated this one that used to be working on the net on the twine and it moved it back here so that I could have one for my net wrap and that was sort of something in the middle of the field I had to do in order to keep going and be able to bail but that's the point is is that if you're going to buy a baler that is going to have a lot of bales on it and you need to know how many bales there are then you're going to be looking at a lot of maintenance and downtime in the middle of a baling session so um what else is there on this other side there's a computer up here which keeps track of everything and it controls things like actuators and all that kind of stuff as well as detecting how large your bales are and when it needs to tell the your unit on the tractor that you need to stop and let it wrap so that's some of the stuff on here let me open up this other side okay we're going to have the same kind of tray here for the um twine everything is going to be chain driven here's a great big number 80 chain uh again you look at the chains and if what you really need to do is you need to have this thing hooked up on the front to a tractor and have that pto running it can run at idle but you need to take a look at everything that's operating in here for a bad chain is going to have some kinks uh some some links in here that will move one way and they won't move the other what i mean that is that they're not going to be smooth running they're going to be jumping and bouncing if they're jumping and bouncing there's segments in the chain that are bad and that chain needs to be replaced and you're going to be talking about a lot of money comes out to be probably about six or seven dollars a foot and what looks like a small chain like from here over to here is going to be six feet um so there's you know there's there's money involved in the chains and then you need to take a look at the sprockets if these are not look like they've been lubricated and cared for you're looking at some an owner who does not put the time in or the care to make sure that this is going to operate properly and he's going to wait for everything to break down until or fail before he does anything about it and you probably don't want to get into a baler like that so this side over here has more zerk fittings again they go for bearings they'll be routed to the bearings that are hard to get to and which is good um if you've got something where you can get grease in there and it's done on a regular basis and you're going to look for the grease and you're going to look for dark areas around bearings which means that there's grease because they uh the grease is coming out and the dust is being collected that means that they've been maintained if they're dry if they don't have uh gunk on them then you're gonna you're looking at a baler that wasn't well cared for a well cared for baler is going to last you a lot longer it's going to be a lot more reliable but again when you get into high hours i'm sorry high bales um you're going to be looking at uh extensive amounts of time on every bearing um i could say i could throw out a number like two and i can throw out a number like four hours on every bearing that there is for example this one here you know how how am i going to get back here into this bearing well i'm going to have to take every chain off i'm going to have to take sprocket off i'm going to have to take all that apart there's going to be key way in there i have to take that out have to make sure i can pull it off and then i'm going to be able to get to the bearing to find out you know what's going on with the bearing and again hopefully it has not been a situation which is common with balers if a bearing goes out it will overheat and it will be hot red hot and that red hot is on on combustible materials is not a good thing that's why a lot of balers will end up burning up in the field somebody's not paying attention to what's going on so this one has um this cover here which reveals again more chains more sprockets and you need to check out everything you can one of the things that also i'll point out on this one here is that this has gauges to tell you when there's been when the chain has stretched too much you see here there's a metal tab here it since this is already descended beyond that that says that this chain has stretched too much more than the manufacturer wants it to and it indicates that that chain should be replaced because it's been stretched whether the chain's operating or not it's up to you i'm keeping this on here because i i've been keeping it lubricated and i've been keeping it maintained and i am accepting the risk that this puts me in so i'm not ready to replace it yet when i do i'll probably be doing several of these number 80 chains which again like i said they're they're expensive now when i say six dollars a foot or so whatever i said um that is that is an internet cost that is not a dealer cost if you're going to get something from the dealer then um you know you're going to be paying more more than six dollars a foot but chains are commodities bearings are commodities but in order to replace a bearing you're going to have to take the bearing out and now bearings can fluctuate widely in price you can get them on ebay you can get them on amazon and you can get them from the dealer those are the three points that i've looked at if you get it from ebay a typical bearing might be 25 if you get it on amazon it might be 45 and if you get it from the dealer it might be 75 so again they're not cheap and they're all exactly going to be the same as if you measure them out or you get a number off of them a lot of times i take my digital caliper and i will measure them out and i'll order them and it's right on because if uh you just need to make sure your dimensions are correct so you're gonna you're gonna measure an inside dimension you're gonna measure an outside dimension you're gonna measure the width of it and uh and the type some of them are going to have a hexagon interior bore and some of them are going to have a smooth bore some of them have collars on them and some of them don't so um what else is there i need to tell you um in terms of function this here happens to be a lock that will allow the back tailgate to be locked open basically it's a shutoff valve um for the hydraulics so again it's going to maintain that open gate on the hydraulic system um um and of course if you crawl into it with that there's a risk okay and this one on this side has another uh set of zerk fittings that go to the bearings up the top um now i'll tell you on this one here and i will kind of quickly come over here this here happens to be the the drop gate um they call them a kicker for the back end of this and at probably eight thousand nine thousand bales this one had been bouncing up and down every time you would run a bail out it would press it down and there's a spring on it and then it would bounce it back it would once the bail rolled off of it that gate would come and bounce up and when it bounced up it ended up um there was there was no no cushioning there was no shock absorbing system so what it ended up doing you can see i've got a pair of mounts over here i've got a pair of mounts over here that were actually ripped off and when you take a look at it i've got holes in my in my tube so i've been operating it and it can operate without you're just going to have to drop the bail and then move forward before you close the gate but um again that's that's another issue that you might run into while i'm thinking about it another issue i want to mention is the tires check the tires make sure everything's okay these tires let's see you can see if you can see it there is there is a crack in my tire right there there we go and in fact there's cracks all the way around so this is a 16 year old um i mean there's a crack there there's a crack there there's a crack there there's a crack there there's a crack there now those those don't affect the tire um they're they're more cosmetic because this out this side wall is simply going to be protecting the belt but again um it will happen even though this has spent most of its time inside of a shaded area it will happen so again check your tires make sure they look okay uh that definitely is not a good thing to do you do not run run it with the caps off it just means that you're exposing those bearings to sand and grit and dirt and all that kind of stuff which is not what i intended to do but i haven't i haven't fixed that yet so let's talk about belts here's a there's there's a series of belts in here if you see something like that that's not good you might as well consider that those belts need to be replaced and uh and they're not cheap and it's going to get again be more labor that's an indicator that it's time for all of these belts these are original um i've been very fortunate that they've lasted me 10 000 bales and uh it's time to replace them so you just need to know you see something like that and you probably need to rotate all these bales uh all these belts around as you're testing it and get it to stop and check every belt and see what kind of condition it's in um because if one goes you might as well consider that the rest of them are about to go uh soon and uh so somebody who's trying to save money might replace one or two belts and but you're it's just a matter of time before the rest of them have to be replaced another thing i didn't mention here on the front is that on this particular brand there's a pto shaft comes in and right here is a um clutch it's a um it's it's got teeth to it so that it will those teeth will slip and actually cause a loud chattering if the whole system something in the system somewhere has stopped and your pto is still turning that's a wonderful feature to have you need to have it otherwise if you end up tearing up something it's going to be a very expensive session to get everything repaired and having that thing slip is is a good thing so i don't know how you would test it um honestly to uh to make sure it's all working right but um you need to have that and this one again while i'm thinking about it uh it has some arms so here's an arm right here which is for net wrap if you're going to get into the net wrap and you want to have an it wrap operating this one does both i can pick and choose what i want to do um then you need to check that out make sure all everything's operating so you should be able to get into the tractor when it's running and you should be able to go through a simulated uh string wrap and you should see those those arms which would be outside ways right now you'll see them go down so they're pointing straight at the bale and and work their way out to run the string um from the inside of the bale to the center of the bale to the outside edge of the bale and i don't know uh this system here uh net wrap is going to be a little bit different um i would just simply just get in here and take all of these and and make sure everything seems to be turning smoothly turn every one of them here's another one here turn every one of them make sure it's smooth and let's see here's another one third one here make sure you don't have any grinding on the gears or any resistance um they should be silky smooth even at 10 000 mine are still silky smooth otherwise again more bearings to replace another topic is your electrical cord that's going to come up your tractor you need to check it out make sure everything looks good nothing's bent all of the pins are sticking out if they're not sticking out well anyway you just want to take a look at the whole condition of this thing take a look and make sure everything looks like it's going to be good um i've had some problems with mine and actually my pins will not stay out all the time so as i put make this up to the tractor where i have my monitor i have to actually pinch or push some of these lines as i'm connecting this thing together it's a pain in the butt but um again you want to you want to just check the condition of all those little kind of things and uh don't let somebody hook it up without you being able to check it out first um otherwise you're uh you know because a cord like that to be replaced it's going to be hundreds of dollars and uh and you're going to be plenty of labor to go in there and reconnect it it goes up to the uh the box that i talked about computer box so um you just need to be aware of that um i know one operator who um his pin disconnected from his tractor and uh and then his uh his employee um basically dragged the unit and uh it pulled this uh pulled this cord off and he had to pay hundreds for a new one and of course then replace it oh another thing while i'm thinking about it um um i'll show you on mine because it may be a rare thing and it may not be a rare thing uh but if you take a look at a look at this it is actually bent right here and this side is bent over here um and if you go and take a look at it you can see this thing's flared out of the top and you can't tell but it's also at the bottom because that's the c channel what actually happened there is that i had the tractor too tight too sharp and i don't know whether i had it sharp and then i backed up not paying attention or whether i actually turned it so sharp that the tractor tire started hitting and it was hitting on this side i bent this thing all up one time anyway i bent this thing all up and uh took me quite a bit of time to get all that straightened out it was fixable and this is uh just a step with a spring for being able to to walk up and proceed up to the top of the baler another step here but um anyway so what happened is is that the tractor tire came in here and so you have a pin that's pulling this way and you have a tractor tire pushing this way against these channels and so the weak point was these two pieces here now yes i could straighten them out right now it doesn't affect operation doesn't affect use and it's just there but if you do see something like that that would be the cause there just like i explained why you may find some of this pvc uh i mean uh hdpe um a shaft covering uh might be split it's because just getting it turning too tight or or forgetting to to raise the three point and the three point can do the same thing with that so the three point will come in it will contact the side there all right so let's go top side and check out see what we need to look for up here so the first thing i would do is i would check to see how much corrosion there there is on the edges because everything is sheet metal and that would indicate how much time it's spent outside this one has some corrosion um even though i've tried to keep it indoors there have been occasions where it's had to sit outside for a little bit sometimes it's repair sometimes it's just uh not getting to cleaning up okay so back in here we have access to some of the rollers all right so we have two barriers two rollers in here there's going to be a chain on this side which is going to be the right side there's going to be chain which drives this roller and this roller is going to come over here it's going to have a gear and which is going to drive an idler gear which is going to drive a gear that's on this one and uh so this roll these two rollers are interconnected through the gear there's not much you can do from up here other than observation make sure the gear the rollers look okay you can check out some of the things down here the way this one's set up this is going to be my twine arms so the twine arms are rotating or pivoting from the center point here and then the arm goes goes in and swings that way and this one over on this side swings that way so again just check things out see if they look okay um so and then there's a chain here this is the chain's going to be tight because there's no bail in here once there's a bail in here this is designed so this chain will loosen up because this bail begins sorry the roller begins to to move back uh towards me and uh the whole set if you want to call it a set uh in terms of getting to bearings inside of those um a lot of trouble so um i have a feeling that might be why that there's holes sitting in the side here so that you can access and get to some of that nope i take it back that's going to be for another attachment another option that could be on the baler we see the same thing on both sides so we check out the belts and see what they look like again from the top here we can see what's going on over on this side we're looking for anything that looks abnormal you can see that this is designed to be a clutch that if it starts to slip this thing will will start to ratchet and uh so that you don't have destruction happening check out the other side see if everything looks okay you can look for bolts and nuts and things make sure that there's nothing uh unusual down in here there's another roller that's uh used for the belt to manage the movements of the belts and uh not much else on the top here as with any kind of hydraulic hoses check out the uh ends on these things and make sure that the owner or the seller has been taking care of them if they're not all rusty if they're rusty they're going to leak and you're going to want to replace them so this is connected up with my tractor and if you're looking for a tip what i do is i take some plastic zip ties that are colored and i will mark one of them in this case since i only have two i only need to mark one as either green which means it's closest to the grass and so i consistently hook these up every time if it's going to be red then it's going to be closest to the hot sun and uh they want to go on the top but i uh i color code mine if i've got more than one pair then i'll either put one of these on or let's say the first set i put two long for the second set i'll put three on on these zip ties for the third set but anyway that's just my my designation so that i get them all right and uh and know which one belongs to all right so got the tractor hooked up let's take a look at how it's going to operate this is a new chain you see how smooth it is no no jumps no erratic movement go back to the other side take a look at this you see how it's jumping that was now it's bumpy yeah Alright, so we have the tailgate open. Let's take a look at what's in here. This is what you want to look at as well. If you want to check out everything, I've got a roller here, roller here, roller here, you want to make sure there's no apparent damage. This here is going to be a sensor to detect how dense the edges are. This little lever here, you should be able to push that in easily because what happens is that as the roll comes past here, it presses on this and it pushes in. It's got a tension on it, so this is a spring, and the amount of tension determines how dense the edge is, and it tells you whether you need to load more hay up on that side, if it's a softer or not. So, there's one on each side, and again, you want to make sure that these things are operating properly. they are, they do extend out here to the outside edge, and let's see if you can see here. So, they're going to, they're going to come and operate that little sensor right there, is what they end up doing. So, you want to make sure all of that's operational. Here's an example I mentioned earlier, here are the stuffer teeth. So, this side has actually come up, and it's, at this point, then it's going to retract, and then the power goes over to the other half over here. Those come up, down at the bottom, and then they travel up. And the whole idea there is to be able to stuff that into the bale that's sitting here and rotating against here, so that it, the bale itself pulls the hay in. Not much more to see back here. I should make sure everything looks okay. Take a visual on everything. When it's up there, you can see our density cylinder now has been pulled out all the way. And, that's the same thing, it'll be pulled out when the bale is getting larger, and that helps control the density. That's what I meant earlier, that that gauge up there at the front should be reading some pressure unless the valve has been backed off, or it cannot hold pressure, or it does not even have any hydraulic oil. It's a completely closed system. And I learned that after having to rebuild it. I had to rebuild the cylinder, seals, and I replaced every flexible hydraulic hose that supported that, which is actually that hose right there that goes across there, and it goes up forward, and it ends up up here to the gauge itself. It's a closed system. And there's instructions on how to flush it, how to, well, flush it, actually fill it with fluid, hydraulic fluid. And then you disconnect and close everything up, and then it operates in, like I said, in a closed system. That's the way that, that works there. But, again, you want to check to see if there's any oil leaks on anything. You can't tell it on the bottom here, but on the top there, on the cylinders that are on both sides, again, this is intended to be able to lock this tailgate open. All it's doing is shutting off the hydraulic flow, so I can't go back to the tractor. So if you need to hold the gate open and the tractor off, or maybe you've got the valves on your SCVs need to be replaced, and they leak down, then you need to, you can use that. Anyway. As I mentioned before, you can see a better example here of this tube. Actually, it's the axle itself. That's a tube that runs across here. You can see how some of the bales have been hitting here, wearing off some of the paint. But, again, you can see how the sheet metal, or the tube itself, has been ripped open when those brackets were torn off from this side. Just haven't gotten around to replacing them. And, by the way, if you're looking underneath here, there's the stuffer. There's the right hand stuffer. The left hand, as I said, is all the way up. And it rotates like a bicycle pedal. It's kind of, it's an oscillating cranking action. Driven from the left hand side over here, at least this one is, this one is. It's driven from the left hand side, and travels over, it spins both halves, and then you just have an idler bearing over here on the right hand side. All right, so this is an example of what you can detect when you kind of pay attention and take notes. You see here, I've got some hydraulic oil on this tire after this demonstration. I was going to go and I found a couple Zerk fittings that I had not lubricated. I was going to do that. But I looked over here and I saw these, and these are fresh. Otherwise, they would have been worn off. And in fact, it's still dripping. So then I go up and I look, and I see that there's some wetness and some hydraulic fluid. It's actually coming from that valve right there. So, it's again, just be aware of what's going on and make your decisions whether it's important to you or not. But again, that's how it happens. Make sure every Zerk fitting looks like it's freshly lubricated, if any of them have been. And so, do a visual check and see if it's somebody doing a thorough job when they do it. So, that's the end of the tour. I hope that that is information that is useful for you. If there was anything in there that you found was beneficial, I would appreciate a thumbs up. Thanks.