Why Grow Cover Crops - The Key Benefit Everyone Overlooks
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yFsxQD4BfDc
Howto & Style
 Watch almost any video on YouTube about cover crops and they'll overlook the key benefit that cover crops provide. When you know it, you'll kick yourself. I certainly did because it should be really obvious. When you understand what this key benefit is, you'll then be in a better position to choose and decide whether cover crops are the best tool for you to use. Later on in the video, I'm going to share some of the other tools and techniques that might be more appropriate for the food that you grow and for your growing conditions. These other resources, they'll tell you that cover crops, for example, will reduce erosion, they'll reduce soil compaction, that cover crops will often improve the amount of water that's going into your soil, reduce weeds and improve your soil, particularly in relation to organic matter. But they don't explain the reason why cover crops improve soil. And that's really interesting and it's what's so simple. It's basically what they do is they give our soil organisms a better diet. And the thing is, what we've done is we've designed how we manage our gardens and our farms to maximise plant growth for us, for our veggie crops, for our cereal crops and for our livestock. And what we've failed to do is actually think about also how much food we're actually giving to our soil organisms. So adequately resourced, you know, the soil organisms, the microbes and the invertebrates in our soil, the whole soil community can then get on with the job that they've had really billions of years of on-the-job training to do, which is about running the nutrient recycling system in our soil. So breaking down all the organic waste materials into nutrients and communicating with the plants and supplying those nutrients back to the plants. And then also building the soil structure, a soil structure that's great for roots, plant roots to get into, but also for soil organisms to inhabit. So how do we provide them with a better diet? Well, obviously more generous, so they have more to eat, but also more diverse. And it's really interesting. All the science is telling us is that when you grow a diversity of different plants, which of course is what cover crops allow us to do, is that we can see that the rate of improvement in our soil will speed up and be much faster than if we just plant one or two plants. And the reason is for that is because we're then starting to provide a more varied diet. And lastly, consistent. And so what I mean by that is, I mean, here we can have long, dry season. Other climates, you might live in a climate where it gets really cold in the winter. But what we're trying to do is trying to maintain those living plants for as much of the year as possible. And the reason being is then they can keep pumping out those root exudates, the roots, they're supplying root tissues all of the time, and obviously leaves and stems for as much of the year as possible. So now you know the key benefit that cover crops provide, which is about giving our soil organisms a better diet. You can start to think about, are there other ways that I can do the same thing? And for example, here we use living mulch. And so living cover crops are short term, they're usually annual plants. So living mulch is a mixture of perennial plants and self-seeding plants. And it's used to provide a permanent or perennial ground cover. The other tool that you can use is just creating growing food in, you know, particularly tree crops in nice biodiverse pastures with lots of herbs and different grasses. And so you've got that, again, that diverse and different food. And you've got that consistency of cover through most of the year. And then, but the important thing is to manage those, that vegetation, so that you can maximise the amount of the above ground organic material. So the leaves and the stems, you can maximise the amount that actually ends up being recycled in the soil, rather than just sort of sitting above ground and drying out, or the worst case scenario, getting burnt. And the last tool that I want to mention is, has, was developed in Australia by Colin Seiss. And it's such a good example of, of, of what we can achieve. Because what he's doing is he's growing cereal crops in a permanent pasture. And, and it's permanent native pasture. And so it's got a whole lot of diversity, different, different plant species in it. And then he comes in and he direct seeds cereal crops. And he's now growing a diverse of different cereal crops. And so you can see by using this pastured cropping, he's growing a more generous diet than he did do previously when he was just growing crops. He's growing a diverse diet and he's growing it for as much of the year as possible. And so just to finish off with, if you want to know more about the science of why this works, why this approach works in terms of growing more food to feed your soil organisms and how that benefits your soil and your soil ecosystem and how it benefits and make it easier to grow food, just check out this next video.