2017 NRCS Gettysburg Casey Cronin/Dan Forgey "Winter Grazing Cover Crops"
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yhQwxU9UdFg
Science & Technology
 One of the first things I'd like to do is thank all our sponsors that helped us put together and provided input and money for today's event. I'm going to just read through the list. South Dakota Wheat Commission, Farm Credit Services of America, Wheat Growers, Mustang Seed, Monsanto, Prairie State Seeds, Next Level Ag LLC, Millborn Seeds, La Crosse Seeds, Dakota Best Seed, Agronomy Plus, Farmers Alliance, Mitchell, First Dakota National Bank, C&B Operations and Davidson County Implement, Scott Supply, Crop Tech, Ducks Unlimited, Aurora County Conservation District, Davidson County Conservation District, Hanson County Conservation District, South Dakota No-Till Association, SDSU Extension, USDA and NRCS, and Pioneer Hybrids and DuPont. So let's give them all a welcome run of applause. Corey Cronin, Casey Cronin, and we're seeing such a big value in bringing livestock into our farming operation because it was a few years ago we decided that wasn't the thing we should do. And now we're going to, excuse me if you guys can't see, but you know that Casey and I are going to kind of tag team this, but you know, and see the date on the bottom, 2007. So we've been grazing cover since 2007. The more we learn, the more questions we have. We're trying to put sense to this in dollars wise because that's what we really feel we have to do. You can say whatever you want to do, but it still comes down to the amount to dollars. They said, they said on the Leopold Award, you guys, and you know, besides Janet, because she's a young one, but just look at right here, cut this in half. And look at the age of these people right here. Everybody on our farm understands soil health. What we need to do to make soil health. And when we talk, we talk a lot of carbon, we talk a lot of soil health. Because soil health is a driving force, and if a person doesn't think it is, if we keep doing what we're doing the next 10 years, we're going to, every year we see it. So soil health is really a driving force. Casey's going to, or Corey, Casey. No, we've got about 775 cows, cow-calfs that we calve out every year. We run on about 8,500 acres, mostly along the river here on pastures. And then we take them back up to the farm in the wintertime, and that's where we do all our cover crop grazing, corn stalks, get out on the fields. This slide, I thought it was pretty interesting. This is, I didn't ever understand that, well, why can't we just mow this pasture off? What's the big deal with that? I mean, it's there, it's growing. Well, this pretty much explains it. Once I got used to that, to where if you are leaving something, you're going to have a lot more to graze later on. You know, and I, and I really appreciate what Casey and Corey are doing. I'm not saying Monty wasn't there also, but they're really understanding the divide fences and the moving and different water systems. And so, but I mean, that, I just think that's something, you guys. You don't think about that, but just think. I mean, that's, and this is something that, you know, you can't put a value on. This is Casey and Wiley. You cannot put a value on what the, what Casey's doing to build for the future because that's what we have to do. You know, but the one thing is, is, so there's three generations of building a lasting legacy. So on our farm, we want everybody to understand what's going on. We want to understand why we're doing this. We're not doing this just because it's, it's, it's, doesn't cost as much or whatever. We understand and we're all building soil health. You know, one thing we talk about rain and everybody's gets, everybody talks about, well, yeah, you got this rain, we got this rain. And so, you know, 19 inches is our norm. But, so we, these are our pivots down here. So in, in May, June, and July, we had half as much rain as what we normally do in the last 30 years. So you need the soil health. You need to have the, the good growth. You need to capture every bit of water you can do. And that's where our pivots come in. Because it used, we used to be corn bean guys and we found out where that really isn't what we should do. And then another thing, and we will protect our resource. We, we farm, we ranch up along this river and we are going to protect that resource. So these are some of the rotations. But this is the neatest thing about the rotations. Is anytime we can, we come back with a cover. We come back with a cover and we come back with that cover. It's a grazing cover. Casey. So this is just kind of. Yeah, there's a pointer. Oh, okay. His is green. So we can tell each other apart. We can do all here. So this is one of the, the circles down on the river up above. We planted peas on it, combined the peas, then went in with a, with a six-way mix like it says there. We luckily had the, the pivot on it. We watered it up. And then we ran, ran our cows on it for a couple weeks. And then after that we turned in, we fence line weaned our calves, which we really like. And they were, we turned the cows in there. Cows were on the other, or calves were on the other side of it. And the cows just went to eating and everybody just kind of weaned themselves. After that we harvested the lower circles. The cows went down on that. We put the calves in for a couple more weeks on that and got quite a bit of value on it. Calves did great on it. Really, really excited to do some more of that. You know, another thing, and what Doug brought up, and we'll get into it later too, is the neat thing about grazing covers. I mean, I usually figure a cow will take in 20%. We're always going to leave part of our residue. We're going to leave a third of our residue. That's carbon, that's protection for the ground. We're never going to graze it in the ground. We've got to leave 10%. But you guys, there's snow here. So they, Casey, what, you probably kept the calves out of the feedlot for another two, three weeks? At least, yeah. Probably. Yeah. It was a long time. And then, just touch once on grazing younger cattle, how they adapt where the older cattle. Yeah, so these calves, well, we went to a fence line weaning system last year, 2015 was the first year we did it. And those calves, they just seem to take off by themselves. I mean, they're out there on that grass. They're doing what they're supposed to do rather than being in the lot. And now we're calving out there, well, this would be the second group of heifers that we've calved out. And those cows, they spend more time out grazing on all the fields and everything when we get them up to the place than anything we've ever had. And they'll go after that stuff. You can pull your tractor wagon out. But that's where they want to be is out grazing, I feel. And then, you know, what it attributes to the fence line weaning and then getting them out early on the public balance, too. You know, this Toby Stoth, he's from, and, you know, it takes a while to click, especially for me, because I'm old, I'm gray-haired, I listen to it, I don't believe it. I don't believe it, don't believe it the fourth time I say, well, you know, there is something here. But, you know, all you're doing is cycling your residue faster. But you want to leave that third, but you want to cycle that residue faster to make it available for next year's crop. I'm going to talk some on carbon, because carbon is a tremendously important thing to this whole system. We have to harvest carbon. We have to harvest carbon. And how you do that is you do it through plant management. Carbon is the key ingredient to organic matter. Everybody talks about organic matter. Carbon is 57 percent. Organic matter is 57 percent carbon. So the only way we're going to harvest carbon is we're going to have things growing that are green. We're going to take in the carbon from the air. So, and I think that there's just not enough emphasis put on this, because with us, we've got a full system approach where our covers are harvesting carbon. We don't want to, we want to leave our residue, so it's a, it's a kind of a holistic approach. You know, this is a nation that destroys its soil, destroys itself. So this is the way we were. This is the way we were. And, but now I don't know. So, what's that grandpa telling his grandson? He said, I made a mistake. It took me about 10, 15 years of mining the organic matter, but I made a mistake. It's up to you to fix it. It's up to you to fix it. And this is the best way we can do it with covers. I'm not saying only farming, but as long as we think about the carbon, it's, it's just a win-win. This is what we've done on our place. Not going to spend a lot of time. This is grass, soil sample. It would have been grass put in after the 30s, and so that's kind of what we've done on our place. Benefits of organic matter. Water holding capacity is a huge one. And then the, I just, you just can't emphasize what organic matter will do with what a percent of organic matter will do. We've got to start a great deal of carbon once stored in the soil, now stored in the atmosphere. We need to retain this back into the soil as humus. You just have to do that. So I'm not talking about building organic matter. I'm talking about building soils. On our, our full season cover, this is a shovel full of, of soil. Casey's holding the shovel. But so, what we're building soil, so it's residue, humus, good job Casey. Organic matter, topsoil. So, you know, and I never, you know how things kind of slow, I'm, I'm slow. But I hang around Dwayne Beck, we went to Montana for a week. Great week. Geez, just unreal. Well, but one thing he said, he said, when, have you guys ever noticed when you walk along down in the, in town and all of a sudden the sidewalk's down and the, and you say, boy, that sidewalk sunk. That sidewalk didn't sink. The organic matter is building soil. So you're building soil. So when you walk out in our fields, even the ones that we, that are grazed all the time with your, with the, if you manage it right, it's just like walking on a really nice shag carpet. You can feel that cush. Well, what you're doing right now is you're building, you must, you're building organic matter. It's just a win-win situation. You've got to feed these. Doug talked on that. You've got to feed these. So this is a mistake. In 2006, we planned our first field of cover crop. Everything went, 2007, it rained, and boy, that's a nice field. But you know where the mistake was made? We didn't pay any attention to the carbon. I went in there with a very low carbon, no carbon. So all of a sudden, I was paying, it took me about three years after that to make up for that. So now, anytime we talk about cover crop, we want, we want the carbon to nitrogen ratio to be up there. Carbon, you know, and then, so these are just three different mixes. I will get back to Casey. Someone said Casey and I are going to talk, and he said, yeah, I feel sorry for Casey. So cover crop and carbon to nitrogen, this came from Ray Ward, and this all makes sense. The one thing, you guys, and this is where the NRCS has got to help, help, and they will. When you start talking about a cover crop with a carbon to nitrogen ratio, what you want, I want a 24 to 30. A lot of people say, well, why are you even talking about that on cover crop? I think you have to talk about that on cover crop. But we have to find out what plants, because if you get into the middle of August, towards the end of August, you can't plant a, it's hard to get a high carbon. It's hard to, like a forage sorghum, it's too late in the year. So, like an oats is a good one, but oats will get mature. So you have to understand how late you can go in this season with still your carbon to nitrogen ratio. So this is where we want to be. I want to be, like, right up in here, 26 to 1, because our soils are active enough. I want to slow things down. I want to slow things down. When I did it the other time, I was right down in here, and we just speed up. These are kids from Gettysburg FFA. One's the teacher. He just looks like a kid. Oh, the one's the teacher. Would the teacher want to raise your hand? Okay. You guys, find a chair. There's chairs around. You know, these are two good books, you guys, and I really, especially this one. Any question you've got on how much carbon, what you're going to do, you can download this. It's a PDF. You can download that off the Internet. It's just a really good book. Okay, Casey. So this is, it's not, we don't have all of this, but we run them, this is kind of the chunk of pasture we have. Most of it, you know, will never, ever be farmed because it looks a lot like that. It's a pretty rough country. Thank goodness. Great, great. But, no, back to the rotational stuff. When I got back, it was, well, I think we should probably move them. Well, we don't really have a lot of help around, so let's just open the gate. They'll move themselves. Well, after a couple weeks of that, you got them turned in on everything you have. So what we've done is we've started cross-fencing. We're nowhere like Doug is, but that's kind of the end goal is to try to break everything up. So it's going to be a lot easier because Corey and I run all the cows for us to handle them in smaller pastures like that. Water is going to present a challenge, but we're working on that. And that's kind of... Then bringing them home, Casey. Yep, and then this is where we bring them home, too. We'll just trail them across the country, bring them home. This is where we run on to home. Now, back to when I got home again, when we started growing cover crops in 2007, we just turned them on everything that we had around there except for a little bit of fuel. We'll test that out. Well, so they go and they need the green stuff first, and then, you know, they're taking too much. So now we're starting to cross-fence that, letting them have certain things, and then we're controlling how much carton, how much we're leaving. We're taking two-thirds, leaving a third, and that's our goal. We're seeing a lot more benefit from that rather than just turning them out, letting them graze, letting them pick and choose. You know, what's new for 2016? And, Casey, I'll let you touch on this. This is the heifer. You can't quite see the top, but it's the heifers. Yep, so our first calf heifers, we bring them home, and they'll run. This was a full season, right out back. It's kind of a, I don't know, basically a 30-acre lot is what it is. So they'll graze this down, and we don't control this. This is where we feed and everything, and then this is where they run. But there's also a quarter out to the west of here that was planted. It was wheat, went back to cover crop. They grazed on that, and then to the north of where this is, there's some corn stocks, and they've also ran on that. Now, everything got covered up. The gates stayed open for them because they didn't, once they got through all this, we got covered up with snow. Now that we've melted off, they've headed right back out to that cover, and they're digging through it and hammering away on that again. So I really, really like grazing the cover stuff there. You know, this is something that I did. So I talk about carbon, talk about carbon. Look at this cover crop mix. There's no carbon. What I like is this price here. Turnips, I'm, you know, I think that we're going to go to a podge of turnip because the purple top, it grows. But, I mean, the cattle will kick it out easy, and a podge will get more of a tuber on it and more of a leaf, more of a grazer. I love flax or mycorrhizae, the 4HPs. I don't know if I'll do that again. It's just because of the, we have pulse crops in our rotation. I don't know if I'll do that again. But the reason I did this is this is 70, 80 bushel stripper-headed, shell-borne stripper-headed winter wheat stubble. So we had all kinds of carbon. We had all kinds of carbon from that old straw. So all I was trying to do is put some low carbon in another thing when that first flush of volunteer wheat came when I wanted to be able to take it out with clethidim. So you just take the grass out and you leave everything else alone. This is what it was. The 4HPs had a great year. My big worry was is what was going to happen now because the cattle eat this, and Casey, I'll let you do this. And they sure did. We had it fenced out, and they went out there. And there was a rye field that we planted that we're going to go into our full-season cover with this year next to this. And they just, they hit both of them well, but they really camped out on this and moved them along through that before we got to our full-season. This is the calves. Okay. Down there where we take our calves to and start backgrounding them, we had 111 acres to this. This is kind of our feedlot area here. It's more behind that picture. But this was a five-way mix that was planted, and our goal was to get out on it, but we thought we had more time than what we did, and the snow hit, and we just didn't get it done. So it's a goal to be able to, at least for the calves that we're keeping for our replacements, to keep them grazing on that as long as we can. You know, and another thing, in case he already said this, but our cattle really under, our, our, I'm, I'm the cowp, no, but their cattle really understand electric fences. I mean, they respect them, they really understand them, and the kids can move a fence in a hurry. So in 2016, we're going to have a full-season graze. This sounds really good on paper, and it was, will work on paper, but so we're going to have a full-season graze. So this is our mix, and there's a reason for everything in here. What I was trying to do, see the carbon to nitrogen ratio was 32 to 1. That was real important to me. The buckwheat, you know, a lot of people, if you got buckwheat, if you have wheat next, you got to have a two years off wheat, otherwise the wheat can be rejected if there's buckwheat in the export. I don't know, probably, I like what it did, it enhances phosphorus. The okra is going to go away, and then the turnips is going to be a podge of turnip. Kale, I love kale. A half a pound of kale goes a long ways. It'll stay green until November, it gets tall. And then, but you'll see all these, the mycorrhizae association, and I think that's really important, and I'm not saying we're ever going to have it to where we cut out phosphorus altogether, but it's really, what that'll do is it'll actually go out, and it'll go, it'll trade carbon, and it'll go, and it'll trade it for organic phosphorus. But look at here, the mycorrhizae, so look at the root system, 700 times more root system on a mycorrhizae plant. And I just think this is something we just have to keep, keep in the back of your mind, I mean, you guys, and I hope there's no seed dealers in here, but if they do, I hope you learn from what I say, is don't ever be satisfied with the guy goes in and say, this is what you need to plant. You research it, and you be able to, you know enough what's going on or you're telling him what you want. This is, we plant our, in teff stubble, we took a cut and a teff off, and then we always leave the second cut and come back, and so the cattle graze this, there's about a foot of snow, so there's a foot of stubble left, I mean, they weren't on it very long. Our cover crop mix, everything goes together. July 10th, we're gonna get rid of the okra. I like this, it kind of scares you when you look at the plant, it's a shorter, it's a shorter brown midrib, but I like brown midrib because of the prussic acid. It takes some of that thread away of prussic acid. This is our field layout, and I wanted to find out, so it was a three-way mix, known N, and then the rest of this, we put on, we had 40 units of, of, we had about 80 units of N on this, and a lot of people said, you know, it's, it, you shouldn't have to put fertilizer on covers, and so we just wanted to see, so this is a full season graze, July 29th, there's our, our N, our non, N strips, there's our biomass, the 14th, so we did a, Jason Miller came up, on August 14th, we did a biomass, and then this is kind of what, bothered me a little bit, because within, there's 7,100 pounds of biomass, and without N, there's 7,600 pounds of biomass, but you know, you stop and think about it, the, without the N, the other, the, the undergrowth, like the forage peas, and the, and the cow peas, and everything, they had more chance to grow, because they didn't have the competition for sunlight, so you know, I thought, well, did we waste our N? second biomass, the 11th, 28th, so I really recommend everybody, you do a biomass, if nothing else, just to find out where you're at, so we just took a yard square, went out, but you can see, on our 12 way within, look at the difference there, that went away, but look at here, so 25 to 1, I said I wanted to be 26, 27, but I was still happy, 11% crude protein, but this is something, that we've got to get answered, and I don't know how, we're going to answer this, right down here, we had 8200 pounds of biomass, so that's 960 pounds of protein, or 144 pounds a N, so how are we going to get that back, to next year's crop, someone said don't worry about it, but if you're, if you're talking financially, you have to be thinking about it, so what we're doing, is we're grazing it, so you graze the top two thirds, you leave the bottom third, that cycles through the cattle, and so it should be more available, we still, Jason's, we're going to work on this quite a bit, next summer, we're trying to get an answer, to this on our farm, so here's our, here's this, Ray Ward, and one thing I like, about sending down there, and I know there's a lot of good lab, but he'll actually give you, a carbon to nitrogen ratio, so I mean it just, we felt really good about our mix, so here we go, so we had a yield biomass, we're going to graze, pounds, it had 840,000 pounds, 650, 26 pounds a day, if the temperature's right, so we had 46 pounds of grazing, that sounds easy, that's a slam dunk, so we had 147 dollars, that's charge yourselves, we're in 147 dollars, into the cover crop mix, so we're going to, it's going to cost 75 cents a day, 11% protein, and here we go, I mean we, it's a slam dunk, $1.65 at 20 degrees, to feed through the wagon, so net's $172 an acre, so let's just write that down, because we've already made that, I mean that's, that we, you know, so I figured on, 70 bushel spring wheat, which that field would have gone to, at 475, we would have netted, $76 an acre, so you know, we're kind of making headway, plus we left the manure on the field, there's a lot of benefit, of what happened on the field, Casey, then we got into the winter, and mother nature, had a different plan for us, we started out, well I mean, hindsight's 20-20, we could have went back, we could have brought it home, from the river sooner, and got on this quicker, and we, you know, we would have had all of that, but, it started snowing, and, between the snow, and the deer, the deer itself, it took away, one of the paddocks for us, but, it just, we didn't get, everything out of it, that we thought, plus, it was cold, so they were eating, a lot more than what, we kind of anticipated to. this is a picture, after seven days of grazing, one of the paddocks, now, you'd say, well, you didn't leave a third there, well, that snow's, a couple feet deep too, there's a lot, left underneath, so, but the cattle, I was happy with them, once we got them up there, there were some that, never ever left it, I mean, it got, it's just out in the open, on the flat, there's not a lot of protection, and they dug through it, and got the goodie out of it, so, I was very happy with that part of it. You want, you know, so, we've got another one, so we've got to make sense of this, we have to make sense of this, so, just like right now, so you increase your feed, as the temperature drops, so, this is 24 degrees, we figured it was going to take 23, just about 24 pounds a day, okay, so now all of a sudden, we, our average temperature, with the wind chill, was minus three, while we were on that, so, you take that, so it was take 31 pounds a day, did they really need it? We're not going to let our cattle go backwards, their cattle didn't go backwards, right Casey, so, so, this is our average, we had average temperature, average wind speed, wind chill, but look at our max, wind speed, you know, so, I mean, it was a, it was just a tough winter, you guys, tough winter, but, another thing, 36 inches of snow, and everybody knows, at Christmas, what, three quarters of an inch of rain will do, and, so, we were still grazing this, so we had to keep working at it, yeah, so, and, we might have created a few monsters, that, by starting to feed, but like you said, we didn't want to let our cows slip, like I said earlier, some of them cows never ever left to come back into the feed, but we were putting out, through the wagon, we were putting out a little silage, some hay, and then we feed peas as our protein, just, just so they were given up to eat everywhere, and then, yeah, so, it says loss of $35 per acre, is kind of what we figured, but, but there again, I mean, you got to look at it, as you're kind of, doing this for the future too, so, what is it going to do this year, for our crop, and a few, a few things like that, I mean, it's hard to put a value, on some of that stuff, go ahead, case, yeah, we cut a lot of deer, if I were to do it over, I wouldn't recommend the deer, or the snow, but, we had them, my dad left his ranger, in the tracks, so, because he didn't figure, he needed them in Arizona, so we used that, otherwise, we probably would have, wore out a set of snowshoes, and been in a lot better shape, but, they tore down our fence, pretty much every day, the cows stayed pretty good, they didn't, they still didn't like to step across it, even though it was on the ground, we battled it a little bit, but, these deer, they'd sit there, we started on, started on the east end, gave them, gave them that chunk, there was five chunks, and then we just worked our way, started on the west end, worked our way east, and these deer, you'd go out there to move fence, and they'd just, kind of hang, they'd move off a little bit, and then they just stayed on the stuff, that the cows weren't on, until we got to the, to the end of it, I mean, they, they had the, the goody taken out of it, so, we definitely lost, part of it to that, the whole, north side, was, it was tough for the cows, to even get there, I mean, it was, it blew in, I mean, it was chest deep on me, so, but after, after it settled a little bit, those cows did go in there, and they grazed, just what they could out of it, so. You know, Casey, then, another thing too, with this is, your size of paddocks, were you alright with it, or would you do it different, or what are you thinking? No, I like how we, it gave everything enough space, to get around and everything, with that number of cows on there, I thought, I thought it worked out real well, so. Okay. Then, we did do a bale graze this year, for the first time, so this, it's about 63 acres, that, it's kind of between, the windbreak, and the feed yard, and the water, and everything, so, it stays open to the cows, every year, so we just got abused, I mean every year, it just got abused, well, what we did is, we planted it back to grass, we took our first cutting of hay, off of it this year, we took the bales off, and then, we decided, well let's, let's go ahead and bale graze it, so we took the, we're gonna, took all the bales back out, and we had net wrap on them, but, I, I got to run the loader, and Corey cut all the net wrap off, put them on it, so it worked, very, very well, you can see how deep the snow is, I, I was worried about them, getting out and around in there, but, and then just like Doug said, today I was across that, and there's a layer of ice, underneath there, that's at least a foot deep, and a thin layer of hay on it, and this year, we'll probably rest it, our bulls get a little anxious, they're right along the, highway 83, so get close to breeding time, they like to venture out on their own, so we're gonna bring them up, and graze this with them, just kind of as a, just to clip it, for, I don't know, two, three weeks, and then that'll rest for the end of the year, and then we'll decide whether we want to bail graze again this year, or we're gonna rest it another year, or so. this is just kind of a layout, so this is the farm here, this is where we bail grazed here, this is our feed yard here, this was corn stalks, this is winter wheat, so this will go back to a grazing cover, this is gonna be our full season, and this will be the wheat, so, just kind of a layout. the thing that I've learned the most, since I've gotten back, even on the grass pastures, is, is, if you have a plan going into something, you're a lot more likely to do it, rather than just saying, well, maybe I should do this, if you, if you set yourself up with some, some sort of a plan, and, and you can go deviate from that, or whatever, but, have some type of plan in place, I mean, it's worked a lot for us, because it's so easy to say, well, yeah, let's go ahead and move them cows today, or whatever, if you have, if you know, what direction you want to go with it, it'll, it's a lot easier to stick to. You know, another thing I want to compliment Casey and Corey on, because they came up with the plan, before our cows had come home, when it was just wherever they wanted to go, and they actually had it, where they had a fence here, they ran the corn stalks for a while, we kept them off of here, because this is winter wheat, and, but, excuse me, it is not, this is winter wheat down here, but anyway, so this is a full season graze, but everything they had a plan, on how they were going to raise them, you know, so, and like you say, this is planted back to rye, I like rye, but, so this is corn stalks, and the, and the heifers ran, they came through the fence, they ran here, and they ran here, so what we'll do after corn stalks, is we want to keep our carbon up, we're big believers in carbon, so what we'll do, is we'll come back with oats, we love oats, we love oats, so oats will come back, and then, and then we'll actually, and come back with the cover after our oats, so our heifers next year, full season graze, which, that's just the way it works, and then here, and then this will be corn stalks, that run on, and then another thing, this is a, this is a slough area, or what we call it, it's where they feed, fed for a lot of years, and what we do now, is we put a full season cover in there, one thing too, you guys, on a full season cover, when you do a biomass, we did a biomass on this, and we sent it in, and you clip it at the ground, so all of a sudden, you say, where are you on nitrates, that's something, you've got to be very concerned about, don't ask your neighbor, if this is safe to graze, find out, find out a nitrate test, and so what we were, like, we were just, when, when, clipped all the way to the ground, we were right at 1400 parts per million, so that didn't really concern us, because we knew, we were only going to let them have, two thirds, and then Casey, as far as, will they ever go back, to the old paddock, once they graze the paddock, and they move it, will they go back, they do, I mean, that's kind of a good telltale, to when you need to, when you need to move them to, is that they do come back, to another one, but no, every time we moved it, they seem to go after the new stuff, now, after we were all done, we knew we had so much under the snow, that we let them have it, for the whole thing, for another week, and they pretty much evenly spanned out, over the whole thing, but they, they love it up there, I mean, that's where they wanted to be, this is just a picture, this is going to be next year's cover, so we cut silage, and our kind of our goal, I don't know if we'll get away from it, right Casey, is to maybe eliminate silage, but I don't know if we will or not, but we really like to plant rye back on, we're in winter wheat country, but we really manage our rye, we don't let our rye get very big, but it's unbelievable, what the root structure will be from rye, you know, and Doug talked a lot about Canada, and the round, you know, and so we say we can't do this, and, but they're doing it, but one thing I think, and this is what we need to do, I mean, I'm not saying any of these, but this is what we need to do, they've got a, they've got a number for their nutrient cycling, and we need to do that, as a farm, we need to do that, and we will find that out, some guys say, well, what difference to make, take half, take half, I think we really need to, to understand what's going on, you can tell your soil's healthy, by looking at, it has great texture, it crumbles like, Morse chocolate cake, it'll have a smell, as a freshly dug potato, so if you guys ever come to our farm, the first thing we're going to do, is we'll get some soil, I'm not going to call it dirt, I'm going to call it soil, I'm going to ask you to smell it, because it will smell, if you've got healthy soil, your soil will tell you, our farm and ranch fields, we should do everything we can, to make this a better world, we do not ask ourselves, why we know the answer, and the picture's worth a thousand words, we've got a little clip here, of the time lapse, that we're going to show, and it was kind of neat, the NRCS, they put a camera out, when the cover crop was this tall, and it's still out there right now, but they're going to, Josh is going to, this is in the middle of, like the third week in November, so you can kind of see, what we're up against, but you can see on a normal year, where we would have had, a pretty good graze, even there we could handle, why don't you just get a beer, in the picture? we do, oh yeah, Randy Halverson, who was a contract, with the NRCS, and there are it, on Dakota Lakes, the cameras are still there, and the camera's still out there, so it's going to be, but you can see here, now we're getting to the end, I mean, yes, the cows are out there, grazing right now, and you'll be able to see the deer, right, see there's some deer, right now, just so you think, well that's about enough snow, so you can see, what we were up against, I mean, so I feel really good, about what happened, because, don't you Casey? we still save, a ton of feed, by doing all of this, and what we did, for the soils itself, is this a, is this a one year out of ten, it probably is, that's just like saying, is it going to be dry next year, well I'm not going to go, plant my corn very heavy, because it's going to be dry, so we're going to go ahead, with things, and we're going to take, the average, so. And now, have a call of lots, consult you, Laurent governor. Now, we're going to deal with the hinterUNG ideas, and it is going to take after, in order to stay, to translate, in order to Russell. We're going to step in the middle like scripture, to smell like this, so we're going to take, and wait and see how much birds are. Often, we're going tell Super damn, we're facing horses to make! groups of birds, to go with vertical campo, that's going to do the whole thing, and I decide whether아�рон doesn't really help tocaster or just considering, stuff like thathorn , do not necessarily have already along,