GSR & SONS NURSERY GARDEN  KIRUSHNAKIRI | Nursery plant cultivation | Village thamizha village
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yHVn52b1mn4
Education
 ladies & gentlemen sir, your name and my name is Rajkumar dr Rajkumar i am practicing 15 years H Ryan is your buddy with how we are doing business i consider it 40 years its in the government many years and I really can engage a business unbeatable in peace I'll also join in cloth My father is president and he has the government level Which the spend the energy, she'll also be divided I also wish the father and wife ness she'll come like the father Season 1 is the nursery and a nicely deceased human adorable In the roadmap, I am ready to go there. I also elle the opus and Đalicapura in my area. After chate and clean up at the savory sink product, I will tell you about lemon. That's why we will apply your limited amount of water then we will apply our little without excess amount. They are starting at www. concern and added price and price. Didn't know we saiyan, so we strap pretty and cash. Just before us, the company 2015 story. It's famous from how Broad City has been here. But of course, we have five years with adziee. Okay sir, my viewers in the update gave you the video address We were cutting a doctor and done this And the doctor brought him 젊 Etatur del Ses arises But the R flies to me He purged the hospital and has always taken care of AED If here we interview shoes at our dashboard, we will come there. In this location, we will be working on the 다시 one on the콩 1st week and an exhibition site will be解aupted It was Videos told that it's about Fortudent. Based on this but It's about Behold the Bank will we send now some the wellness officers we will be king amongst women and serve as intra-r I will make you with themsil Fusion for credit Dr. R Rajkumar GSR Narasari & Sons, Krishnagiri Main Road, Santur, Pochamilik Thal, Krishnagiri District Sir, what is your name? 807-12-10041 You are a partner, they are working full of a channel, they are called a name Sir, you are a member of your name? Sir, what is your name? Be Ok My name is 9710951665 Yes Same Only DEE off You can also have a tree You can also have a tree You can also have a tree Kiwi fruit, star fruit, rambutan Orange, shat, mother Appel berry Star fruit You have to have a tree You have to have a tree This is a tree This is a tree This is a tree There are two trees This is a tree We have a tree This is a tree A tree It has a tree I have a tree Three trees Three trees This is an tree This is an tree These trees They have to have fruit It is a tree First In a Vijay Maui there twouses of the mandarols made some aviados That is an antique próxima, Main Bueno, Salam wa culpa Do you seni understand what you have your own hakta a child? We try to learn from now and from now Let's dig can easily stand with this We try to clean this with the Biryani How many of you are going to be here? We are going to be here. We are going to be here. This is an intercrap. That is a good one. How do you do this in the tree? This is a tree. How many years? This is in 32 years. This is a tree. This is a tree. This is a tree. It is a tree. You are good at home. You are good at home. It is a tree. You can't see it. There are a tree. Yes. How many trees are you? We are good at home. This is a tree. This is a tree. Here is a tree. Here is the tree. We are going to be here. What are you doing? It's a jamun. It's a jamun. It's a jamun. What is it? It's a jamun. It's a jamun. It's a jamun. It's a crafting. It's a crafting. It's a yield. There are all the seeds. It's a golden seed. It's a seed. It's a golden seed. How does this yield? It's 3. 3. Where does it get? How does it taste? How does it taste? It's red. It's a little one. It's a little one. It's a little one. It's a little one. It's a golden seed. It's a golden seed. It's a cancer. It's a cancer. Okay. It's a good idea. You can use all the seeds. There are a good seed. There are all the seeds. You can't tell anything. You can use all the seeds. You can use all the seeds. Sir, you can use a seed. It's a seed. Um... Next, if you use all the seeds, you can eat all these seeds. You can use to eat all the seeds. Because you can see all the seeds. In these seeds, you will create a seed. In this list, it will looknie because of the breed. This may not uncommon for raw seeds. We are all the vegetables, butília is 15,000. The seeds may sting a whole seed. It matters only very well. 5 verses are a natural If you say it will be 2 verses In the 8th, you will have a great yield Yes, a great yield You can't get a great yield We can't get a great yield You can't get a good yield This is 6th, sir This is Ram Sita Ram Sita We will call it Ram Sita We will call it Golden Sita I will call it Udi Maram We will call it Ram Sita This is Ram Sita This is Ram Sita This is different varieties This is 4 years What is this? This is cancer Cancel There is an effect You can't get a baby If you are talking about You can tell me You can look at a baby You can get a baby You can get a baby You can get a baby You can get a baby You can get a baby Thank you Sir, this is Red Sandal This is Red Sandal This is Red Sandal If you are coming to the right You can get a baby You can get a baby You can get a baby This is Red Sandal This is where it is Most of us At сर But in regards to the right 치 Innalia are we 72 units .... This shrugishade? You could unease noting There are many things here No, we have crafts here Sweet koaya Italian Pink excess type Ok, now I'm examining here This is sweet koaya The koaya term has raised Thank you. Thank you. What is the benefit of this? It's not a sugar. It's not a healthy one. Is it sweet? It's sweet. What is your name? It's sweet. It's light. It's light. You can't eat it. It's a sweet one. Sir, this is strawberry. We can't eat strawberry. It's strawberry. We've come here to the wheat. Sir, you've come here to the village. Where are you from? Sir, we've come here to the trial. We've come here to the village. We've come here to the village. It's completely taken. We've come here to the village. Suddenly, we set up the Kwakattah pressing, many ICFFs have been sold onよろしくertainment