how much money does a farmer make.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ym-BhVmQ3gw
People & Blogs
 Hey guys, thank you for joining me on this 50 plus degree night Fantastic evening coming out of a three-week freeze and then hitting a 50 degree day. This feels awesome We've had a couple warmer days above freezing and we've got seven or ten Days above the daytime highs are gonna be above freezing It's gonna feel good to be out in that Sun my dad and my brother are doing a fantastic job helping me out Combining and taking care of these customers while I have to go to my day job Day job that leads us to today's topic. How rich is a farmer? How much money do farmers make? Great question. I find it funny that Joe public Has the audacity not a rude audacity, but just the audacity to ask farmers all the time like how much money do you make? I don't picture them when they go into the hardware store or the gas station the car dealer Just the businesses that they with deal with every day Do they ask the owner of that place like hey you've been running this gas station for a couple years now? How much money do you make? I Don't see that but farming is a very curious industry to the general public Farming is a numbers game plain and simple we have input costs and and fixed costs and taxes and depreciations and and It's a business like any other business. There's rich guys. There's poor guys West central Minnesota or pretty much Western Minnesota Southern Minnesota two very rich soil Old generation farms that survived the 80s very well Two three five thousand acre farms, you know third fourth fifth generation The the current generation did not have to buy a lot. You know they there's tax things, you know when they got into it, but They they they were given the farm. Let's be honest. It's not I'm not insulting them If I had kids you freaking a right I'd be handing them the farm too and So I have two nephews that I will be handing the farm and we are doing our best to make sure that They're protected from nursing homes and and all we got insurances on everything to make sure that them two guys get the farm So if there's any ladies out there that need a secure future you look up my two nephews, but anyhow back on track So we're not making much money. I am a startup farm Only doing a couple hundred acres when you figure cost of living over a couple hundred acres is a huge Dollar so for us we're making no cash, but by simply making my equipment payments We are gaining equity. We're gaining assets. So on paper We're worth a lot of money, but we still have to borrow money to go Christmas shopping if that makes any sense Again, southern Minnesota western Minnesota fifth generation He was riding in a combine with dad as a little kid. He enjoyed farming. He works with dad and mom the whole time Now he's gonna take over the farm. They hand him the keys They work till they can retire. They figure out some sort of small buyout small pension But that keeps the farm in the family keeps it safe From the 80s ever wiping them out again And so on their 5,000 acre farm My management style on a 5,000 acre farm in western, Minnesota. I'm making a couple hundred bucks an acre profit Uh, there might be some of them that might say oh, yeah big talk big talk When you come from nothing when you got to build yourself up from nothing you're gonna make it I'm gonna make it and I'd be making frickin a lot of money in western, Minnesota southern, Minnesota If I was a fifth generation kid, I'd be driving a new pickup. No doubt about it. Nothing against them. I respect them I'm a little bit jealous of them I'm I'm I'm very a little bit jealous of them. Ha let's be honest But math 500 acres 5,000 acres a hundred dollars an acre profit. That's 500 grand Yep at the end of the year that means they're rolling equipment over for new equipment They're getting a new pickup every couple years They're doing that for tax incentives and tax breaks to keep as much of that 500 grand in their pocket as they can They're stashing some of the way because if they get zero dollars per acre next year They still got some of this money from this year to carry them through not every year is going to be a profitable year Even on a fifth generation farm that the kid just walked into the operation There's years that they might lose money bad weather bad crops uh Hailstorm wipes the wipes the crop out insurance is only going to pay 70% or whatever and so It ain't all just you know silver spoon. You know, I did not want to imply that um I I'm you know, I just know what I can do given the opportunity and so um It's just another numbers game on 300 acres a hundred dollar profit still only 30 grand if I had a hundred dollar profit With 30 grand that that that's nothing An unforeseen breakdown or two during the season a few lost custom acres that 30 grand is gone um You know and so but on our farm we can't do that hundred dollar profit yet We're just trying to pay our bills and build equity and so our farmers rich Some are some are can't judge a book by its cover in 20 years if i'm still farming 300 acres I'm going to be rich because in 20 years a lot of these land payments are going to be done a lot of these implement Implement and equipment payments are going to be done Um, and so we'll just be that much further ahead. So the per acre Investment or or the the burden on a per acre basis will be tremendously less where the money can come to us And so it farming isn't any different than any other business other than we have zero control Basically, we have sun control, but for the most part the government and the world sets our input Costs and sets the price of our sale Of our product going out. We're not a hardware store. We can't just add Five percent annually to the nuts and bolts because everything else went up five percent So we're just trying to keep up with inflation Farming don't work that way Um, and so it is it's a very tough industry, but it's still business you gain money you lose money You got to ride your ups and downs Just because you see new paint on a farm don't mean he's rich either for all you know Look at farm producers of the year the last several of them these big massive 50 and 80 million dollar operations Go bankrupt they go bankrupt owing 250 million and they only had 20 or 50 million worth of collateral or assets That ain't right Uh, the banker and the farmer both There's a whole lot of shenanigans going in on something like that And so all that new paint didn't mean anything that he was rich I bet he looked really good at all these meetings like I'm farm producer of the year You know what he's in jail several of them are in jail and their wives and their brothers and their dads and Neighbors and cousins that were in with them are in jail. Um, I don't plan on going to jail Uh, I will be poor before I go to jail, but but off topic But yeah, don't judge that butch but book by its cover for all we know That guy was just all leased equipment padding his books to make it look good at the bank to borrow more money to keep growing The fan the buck finally stopped it all finally can't caught up to him and comes crashing down And then there you go the taxpayers and everybody else at that bank are paying for his cheating and shenanigans Um, so yeah, our farmers rich some are some aren't we got some little guys around here. They're not rich But the farm is paid for they're doing a couple hundred acres a year Him and his wife are still just plucking away on that couple hundred year acres like they did for the last 50 years And they're they're paying their bills and they're putting a little bit in their pocket Um, and so that's where we're gonna be someday Um, and so yeah It's you know, I hope that answers questions If you guys have any more questions on how rich are farmers? Please drop a line in the comment section I thank you for watching the video hope that helped some of you non farmers realize how Loaded I am Uh, when you see me at work or uh, just the joe public farmer Um, he might be rich. He might not be rich, but he's busting his ass either way Thanks for watching. We'll catch you next time