"What Did You Do?" campaign by Farm Sanctuary
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YPwVtpP-ce0
Nonprofits & Activism
 When you learned about cruelty inflicted on animals, what did you do? Farm Sanctuary, the largest farm animal rescue and protection organization in the U.S., is launching a campaign to find out. Beginning on September 23 and counting down through World Day for Farmed Animals, October 2, farm animals everywhere will be depending on you. Here's why. Factory farms dominate U.S. food production, employing abusive practices that maximize their profits at the expense of animal welfare, as well as endanger the environment, our communities, and even our health. Farm Sanctuary has rescued countless farm animals from the extreme confinement, overcrowding, illness, mutilation, and pain inflicted on them at factory farms. The animals that we rescue are ambassadors for all animals. We're not just trying to save one, five, or ten animals. We're trying to educate and empower you to make choices that save countless farm animals across the world. Animals like Julia. Before she was rescued, a worker at a factory farm brutally kicked, beat, and electrified a pregnant Julia while moving her between confinement crates. Her story is just one example of the cruelties inflicted on animals each year. And by the way, Julia is now safe at our New York Sanctuary after having 16 adorable babies. To get involved now, just visit WDYD.Farmsanctuary.org and donate to our campaign. You can make a donation and join an animal team, like Team Moo to help cows or Team Cluck to aid chickens. We've partnered with CrowdRise to make it easy for you to donate to your favorite animal teams and even form your own teams. Then you can use your social media or even yell out your window to get people to contribute to your very own team. You'll also have the chance to win fun prizes thanks to some of our amazing celebrity supporters. And here's the best part about donating during this campaign. Several donors, we call them our animal angels, have put up over $100,000 to match your donations. So your $10 can turn into $20, $50 into $100. Every dollar counts. For example, just $18 could buy a month's worth of pain medication for a rescued turkey like Daisy. And $30 could provide food for rescued pigs like Nikki. Farm Sanctuary is currently home to about 700 chickens. And for about $2500, we could feed them all for a whole year. When future generations look back on this moment in time, they will wonder, what did you do about animal cruelty? Let's make sure our answer is loud and clear. Let's make sure our answer is loud and clear.