Growfoam® plugs. A comparison of substrates for hydroponic growing.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YqSS6oE_Pw4
Science & Technology
 Hey everyone, it's Alex from ZipGrow. And I'm Mandy, I'm a co-op student studying food industry management at the University of Guelph. And today we're going to be talking about how growfoam compares to traditional media such as hemp, peat plugs, stonewool, and cocoa. Growing media that consists of organic compounds such as peat or cocoa offer significant safety challenges by introducing potential pests or pathogens into the farm. While there are sterile alternatives such as stonewool, it is not compostable. Growfoam is unique in that it is both sterile and compostable. Speaking of degradable media, besides growfoam there are a few others. Off the top of my head I can think of cocoa, hemp, and certain peat plugs. Not only can non-degradable media end up in landfills, but it can also increase waste disposal costs. Sometimes these costs can be offset by utilizing biodegradable alternatives. Degradable media can also be detrimental to the environment as well. For example, cocoa core takes an extremely long time to decompose and can affect healthy native soils. How do you think the soil is a good source? I believe that stonewool, cocoa, peat plugs, and growfoam all have equal plant performance. Certain parameters like irrigation events, nutrient levels, and pH must be adjusted to cater for each medium and crop type. But we are seeing roughly the same germination rates, plant health, and root health amongst themselves. Stay tuned to our R&D blog and you'll be able to see the data and the time lapse of the plants themselves. There are a surprising number of logistical challenges involved in all the different substrates. Some products like peat plugs come pre-moistened, which increases shipping weight and fuel costs. Once a bag is opened, they can't be allowed to dry out as they can crumble and are extremely hard to re-moisten. Soil-based products require phytosanitary certificates when being shipped internationally. This adds more paperwork and fees to an already complex system. Sterile media like brofoam or stonewool don't require one. And these fees can slowly add up in a commercial setting. There are many different variations in their form factors. Cocoa, hemp, and stonewool are all available in bricks. Peat plugs, growfoam, and stonewool can also be easily used with trays, each with their own unique footprint. Growfoam even have different models to suit different seed types. Stonewool blocks can range from 1x1, 4x4, and even up to 6x6 depending on how vigorous the crop roots. It's always important to size your substrate appropriately to maximize your yields and quality. Loose fill growing media like Cocoa Coil offers significant challenges in automation, increasing labor costs as well as maintenance costs. On the other hand, both peak plugs and growfoam are great for automation due to their size, consistency, and ability to nest well into trays. They both are also compatible with ZipGrow technologies. As automation becomes more mainstream, I'm sure we will see many advancements in this category. That's it from us today. If you have any questions or comments, please feel free to reach out to us or visit zipgrow.com to see all the different types of growing mediums and their advantages. And don't forget to hit like and subscribe. o