BURKINA FASO AGRICULTURAL REVOLUTION
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ysxswa-T7IA
Entertainment
 Welcome back once again. Thank you so much for clicking on this video. If this is your first time, my name is Mamrie and you are very, very welcome. This video is just a quick update about agriculture revolution, food sovereignty, food security that is going on in Burkina Faso, AES. I just share a quick update on how the minister has visited recently the dam that they have launched to rebuild and repair and add more to it, not knowing there is more. I must say that one of our families under the conversation asked me, a true Mamrie, did you know about the plant, the medicine, the herbal medicine? Have you hear about anything like that in Burkina Faso? I said no. I will look into it. Boom, I found a message, I found a video about it. So I put all together, families please listen to the end, how the expression is going on, how they are going to use their own herbal medicines and more. I'll be back. Thank you for your time. Gentlemen, good evening. Welcome and I'm delighted to have you with us for a new information session. In the headlines for this edition, the 2025-2026 agro-pastoral and fisheries campaign, Minister Ismail Sombier conducted an inspection visit last Saturday, June 17 in the provinces of Wigge, Kemde and Tui. The purpose was to check the progress of various development works to ensure better results for the upcoming agricultural season. And then sustaining water resources for agro-silvopastoral production. The director general of the ONB visited the Gulure Dam construction site on June 5. Yaya Traoré went to observe the progress of the work and to encourage the workers to meet the project completion deadline. More on this story later in the news. As just mentioned by Commander Ismail Sombier, Minister of State, responsible for agriculture, animal resources and fisheries, he carried out an inspection mission on Saturday, June 7, 2025 in the provinces of Bulki-Mde and Tui. Accompanied by his delegation, this visit is part of the 2025-2026 agro-pastoral and fisheries campaign aimed at checking the progress of various development projects. Cocomieso with more details. The Minister of State in charge of agriculture, Commander Ismail Sombier, conducted a field visit to the lowlands of Dasise and Saranan, covering 56 hectares and 150 hectares respectively in the province of Burkemdi as part of the 2025-2026 agro-pastoral and fisheries campaign. This inspection aimed to monitor the progress of development work in the Central West region and the house basins. In the province of Tui, in the Robeson region, the Minister also utilized a lowland area of 21.2 hectares in Fuzan and another of 28 hectares in Dakari. The companies involved in these projects were encouraged to maintain their momentum in order to meet the scheduled deadlines. E.S. Milsson-Bia emphasized the importance of rigor and professionalism among the companies and supervisory bodies. In order to contribute to the progress of the work, the local populations for their part expressed their satisfaction and gratitude to the government for its support of the rural sector. The goal of the Burkinaabe government, through the Ministry of Agriculture, is to produce 7 million tons of cereals, including 1 million tons of rice during the 2025-2026 season. We continue in the same vein with Commander Yaya Torre, the head of the General Directorate of the National Office of Dams and Hydro-Agricultural Developments. He visited the Goulouré Dam Development Site in Burkina de Provence on June 5th. The purpose was to assess the progress of the work at the site, where the completion rate is estimated at 20%. The head of the NWA and his team also encouraged the workers to meet the deadline set under the supervision of NWE Dragoo. Here is a project that bears the mark of the commitments of the Burkinaabe authorities. The goal is to provide farmers with the resources they need for both quantitative and qualitative production. Amid the roar of heavy machinery, a technical briefing with the staff, the construction site of the Goulouré Dam in the community of Kokologo is progressing normally. It is on track to meet the objectives set by the National Office of Dams and Hydro-Agricultural Developments. Did you see that there is water in the whole dam? So we have achieved the first objective, but we are not going to stop since we ourselves are the company. So we will only stop when we feel that we can no longer continue working. So the work goes on. We have already started part of the second phase, which was supposed to begin at the end of the public season. So we can assure you that the work is progressing well. This satisfaction, Omba owes it to the unwavering commitment of its technical teams deployed on this project. This visit from the head of the organization serves to encourage the workers who are committed to delivering the infrastructure on time for the benefit of the producers. I think that with the current pace, we will meet the deadline. There are no major difficulties. The work is proceeding normally. There are no problems with the local population. On the contrary, the population is actually cooperating well because they understand the value of this project since they are the ones who will benefit from it the most. The aim of this project is to increase the water volume to 800,000 cubic meters, which is 10 times the dam's original capacity upon completion. According to Commander Yaya Traore, the completion of the work is initially scheduled for January 2026. And finally, as part of the major conference on the sustainable management of medicinal plants, the minister in charge of the environment through the National Center for Forest Seeds and the National School of Water and Forestry organized several panels, including one focused on the theme of management of medicinal plants. This panel allowed the various stakeholders in the field to discuss, exchange and share ideas in order to propose possible solutions for the preservation and sustainable management of medicinal plants. Watch this report by Colette Ilbudo to learn more. Sustainable management of medicinal plants is the third and final topic addressed by the experts during this panel, which was organized alongside the conference on the sustainable management of medicinal plants held on May 30th in the city of Sia. Over the course of two hours, the experts took turns analyzing various subtopics. The experience of fitofla in the conservation of medicinal plants was the first subtopic addressed by Dr. Virginie Daccio, General Director of Fitofla, before handing over to Dr. Lompot from the CNSF for his presentation, which focused on the CNSF's experience in the conservation and genetic improvement of medicinal plants. The objective of my presentation was to share the experience of the organization I lead in terms of preservation and promotion of medicinal plants. The Secretary General of the National School of Water and Forestry was responsible for presenting the final subtopic of this panel, which is sustainable management of medicinal plants. What strategies are used by the different stakeholders? Medicinal plants play an important role in the lives of communities, and most of them are used as raw materials by traditional healers in the preparation of medicines. Given their many roles, the panelists of the day emphasize the necessity of conserving and managing them in a sustainable way. I think I am actually in the best position to know just how important the protection and preservation of medicinal plants is, since they are my main raw material. So, I always like to say that in order to sustain the activity, you have to secure the raw material. Without the raw material, the structures do not exist. And if we no longer have the structures, that means we no longer have the medicines we produce. And that means that the people who rely on our products for treatment will also no longer have access to their medicines. In fact, there are times when we run out of certain species which automatically leads to a shortage of the medicines. While urging stakeholders to become aware of the key issues related to the sustainable management of medicinal plants, today's panelists also made specific requests to the government for further additional support for those working in the important fields of traditional medicine. And that's all for this edition. Thank you all for your attention and see you tomorrow. Thank you so much families for listening. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you so much families for listening. If you are new here, what the AES does when they give contracts, always they have to be there. Make sure it is working. Make sure it's on the deadline. They don't leave them to do their own thing. They are always there. And many at times they don't even give the contract away. They have their own people. Like Burkina Faso, many of the machines belongs to the government. So they will not spend more on the project. Yes, it's accountability. If you listen to the speech that he gave during the flag raising day two days ago, he mentioned we are at the middle of the year and what? Everything must be perfect. Everything must be good. We have to make sure everything is working. So yes, very soon we'll be seeing the balance sheet, how it is. And for that matter, it's December. No, no, no, no, no, sorry. Many of them is ending of this month, which is June. They have to finish many of the projects, the dams, the factories, hospitals. Many of them have to finish ending of this month. And then they'll proceed to the next projects. Anyway, this is a short news I want to share with you. You can tell they are working on their herbal medicine. We need them. We need them. And we need them more right now. Consider what is going on in the world. And I share a video about them going to the World Health Organization, putting their problem there, what they are doing and what they are not doing. The video is also there. So yes, this is just a quick update about the agriculture season and everything. I can't wait to the end of the year that I'll be seeing fresh food everywhere to share with you. This is what is going on. I will leave you here. Credit to Faso Mable, Faso 7 for sharing this information with us. I will link the channel. It's a new channel. It's about agriculture. I do not check it regularly. I must admit, I should be because anything concerning farming in Burkina Faso is on that channel. I'll put the name there. In case you are interested, you can be checking it up yourself. God bless you all. My returning families, my VIPs, my kings and queens. Thank you. If you are new here, and I will say that, yeah. My name is Mambe Ariato News. I'm from Africa, but I'm very comfortable in the AES, even though I can see what is going on across. Cameroon is on fire. Togo, they tried it. I was thinking, be careful. Don't be like Kenya. That meaning will be deleted and no result. Be careful when you are doing things like that. And that's why I didn't want to get involved in the Africa. You know, the story is long. I will leave you here. I'll be watching. Careful. It's not that I've turned my eyes. Yes, I know what is going on. I'm comfortable. I want to be protecting my heart. Yes. In the AES community. If you are like me, join me. Thank you. God bless you all. Thank you so much. Have a wonderful day. God bless you all. Bye-bye family. Africa unites. Africa unites. Africa unites.