Unknown Title
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yUCzz4S9OUs
Unknown Category
 Okay our next speaker is Horacio Aguere-Villegues. He was from the University of Wisconsin-Madison. He's an assistant scientist. He's from Bolivia but came and we worked together and he is the source of all modeling information and has some great information to share with us about a recent modeling effort he put together using some I think this is the survey date okay survey data and then transforming that through some modeling things done here is a slide advancer. Good morning everyone. Thanks for being here. So I'm gonna keep talking about Muneer and when we started this project one of the key components was the initial management practices that we were going to consider throughout the life cycle of their production and we wanted to see what these management practices were in Wisconsin. So today I'm going to present some of the results of the study that we conducted to first get information on the most common management practices in Wisconsin and then to relate these practices to the submissions. So that's some introduction probably we already know right now that Muneer is a very important component of the dairy farm because it has some valuable nutrients but also at the same time it is a major contributor to greenhouse gas emissions. Muneer is responsible for around 7% of the methane and agricultural methane at 1922 emissions. It's also the second source of greenhouse gas emissions at the dairy farm level after the methane. Also we saw that up to 70% of the nitrogen excreted can be emitted in ammonia depending on the management practices during storage and application. And then this has further implications because it has water quality issues or this ammonia can eventually be transformed into a further contributing to the planet. So it is and all these emissions are very susceptible to the management practices that are adopted in farms. So it's very important to identify which practices are being currently adopted. So the objectives of this study were to first identify these management practices, then to develop inventory data on them, compare practices based on farm size, different farm size groups, and finally relate both greenhouse gas emissions and ammonia emissions. So today I'm just going to talk about greenhouse gases but the data is there for ammonia as well. Okay so for this we did two things. First we collected the data for a survey that we sent online to more than 2,000 farms in Wisconsin. We got a pretty good response rate for permanent facilities like more than 20% but like 5% for the rest farms. So less than 1,000 units and we first think that one of the reasons for this load response for smaller farms was that the survey was online. So that could have been a problem and also that we sent postcards to the survey only one time. We had several comments that we had to follow up like 30 or four times in order to create a part of our response. Anyway, the survey had two main areas, general farm operations and manure handling which that's the main focus of this talk. We divided the farms into four groups according to size. 1 to 99 animal units, we classified that as small farm. Then medium farms with 100 to 199 animal units, large farms from 2 to 999. And then permanent facilities that have more than 1,000 animal units. We had 143 responding responses. And how this translates to the farm population of each group? Well pretty good for permanent facilities, 21% of the permanent facility population. That's the response that we got. 5% for large farms, 2% for medium farms, 0.2% for small farms. So the results for this farm size group have to be interpreted with caution to give to this small sample type. This graph just shows all the different steps that we consider in our survey and also in our modeling exercise. Throughout the manure handling part, I'm going to focus on the blue components here today. Starting with manure excretion, characteristics of manure, different types and amounts. How manure is collected, if it's transported to storage, how it's transported, if there's some kind of processing in the farm. Then how it's land of life. And besides asking the different these management practices, we included specific questions related to energy consumption. And if the farmers didn't know that, then time of operation and the power size of the machine are used in order to calculate energy consumption. So the second part, after getting all these management practices, we use modeling tools to quantify the greenhouse gas emissions. First, we use life cycle assessments in MIGs to get a full picture of what's happening in all these steps. Also, we use equations from the ISM model for methane and nitrous oxide. Then we use the survey data for energy consumption and fossil fuel emissions that are related to this. Finally, we model nine scenarios. We need three representative farms. A small farm handling solid manure, a large farm handling liquid manure, and a fairly facility handling liquid manure with processing. And the reference scenario for each of these was basically representing the most common management practices reported in the survey. But also, we model a low greenhouse gas emission and a high greenhouse gas emission scenario based on the management practices for each farm in order to compare results. So some results for the survey management practices. This graph shows the type of manure being handled by small, medium, large, permanent facilities. As we can see here, the majority of small farms, the 16 respondent farms handle solid manure, and as farm size increases, then the tall solids decrease. So 45 permanent facilities responding to the survey, 80% handle liquid manure. So this graph shows the size of the soil. So this graph shows, to the left here, we can see how manure is collected or what technologies are used. In small farms, gather cleaners and barn cleaners are mostly used. But as farm size increases, then we can see that skeet steers and early scrapers are used as well. And as farm size increases, there's a wider variety of collection methods. In terms of transport after manure collection, small farms mostly transported to land, so it's directly land applied. Long term storage is starting to be more common for larger farms. And also, permanent facilities transport manure to processing. Now, this indicates that larger farms are more able to invest in large storage structures than smaller farms. Okay, for storage, we collected some information on the type of storages that are mostly used. We can see that, as with collection methods, there's a wider variety of storage systems being adopted by larger farms. We all run concrete and plate, land, earth, and basins are the most common ones. With land application here, we can see that small farms usually use surface application. But as farm size increases, then we have injection coming into play. And the permanent facilities have actually both types of land application, surface and injection. So, we can see that we can see that the land application is also related to land application. Also related to land application, I include this graph here because I think it's pretty interesting. It shows the hauling distance from the farm to the field versus the number of animal units. And you can see that there's an increase in hauling distance as farm size increases until a point in the permanent facility group where it starts to decrease. So, this suggests that probably smaller farms have more land per annual unit than permanent facilities. which has, of course, implications for manure application. In terms of processing, only permanent facilities reported some kind of processing. Mostly sand separation of those farms that use sand as vein, solid leaf separation, and anaerobic digestion. For solid leaf separation, mostly screw presses reused. There are a couple farms that report that centrifuges. For anaerobic digestion, mostly modified clout codes in Wisconsin, clout codes as well. Some farms use completely these digesters. We can see that the anaerobic digestion is always coupled with second or third technologies. It makes sense to further separate the digested solid leaf streams when you have an anaerobic digestion in these farms. For these farms, an average of 1.5 cubic meters of water gas per animal unit was calculated mostly for electricity production. That is connected to the grid at 25% capacity. So, now for the second part, we have these management practices that we have identified with the survey. So, we put together these nine scenarios. This table shows the different management practices that we consider in each of them. Being the reference ones here in the middle, the most common ones. And then we have these low and high greenhouse gas emissions scenarios that we also model. So, for collection, for example, skid steer, which is diesel fuel. It is diesel fuel versus a park layer and the only spread of diesel electricity. So, we want to see how that affects greenhouse gas emissions. Transport, pumps, mostly used in larger farms. No transport, or tanker in smaller farms. Processing only reported by current facilities. Most commonly, farms respond to this survey with all three, sand separation, anaerobic digestion, and solid liquid separation because they use sand this day. But also, we want to see how solid liquid separation without anaerobic digestion and reform in terms of greenhouse gas emissions. Storage, usually mostly done by larger firms. Basically, we change the retention time. Usually, when there is storage for six months. So, around the life of science here, spring and fall in Wisconsin. We want to see what happens if we consider shorter periods. And also, we evaluated storage with natural crust formation on top, even without. This is important because it has implications in terms of greenhouse gas emissions. This natural crust, organic crust, creates aerobic conditions of storage, which could reduce methane emissions, but at the same time, could increase into emissions. So, we want to see that. And for land application, surface application and injection, mostly don't permit the gas gas emissions. So, this graph summarizes the results for all these nine scenarios. Small farms here, these first three. Large farms, second three, and primitive facilities, also in this class, a group of three farms. You can see that in small farms, greenhouse gas emissions are dominated mostly by N2 emissions that happen in application, black application. But then, as farm size increases, we saw that manure-type transitions to more liquid form. So, there's a need to start thinking about storage systems. And this is where methane happens. And storage of liquid manure creates, you know, the perfect conditions for methane to occur. So, large farms, mostly methane emissions from storage. But then, as economies of scale justify it, then there's bigger farms and primitive facilities that can afford some kind of processing, where green gas emissions can be significantly reduced. These first two are scenarios with anaerobic digestion. And we can see that reduction in blue here, not only from the methane from the storage, but also included avoided emissions from the fossil grid electricity that's now been replaced by biogas electricity. Also, solid liquid separation reduced compared to large farms' methane emissions from storage, which, I mean, solid liquid separation is probably much cheaper than anaerobic digestion, so it's really a good processing strategy for farms to consider. In terms of collection, here in orange, we saw the electricity-based systems, so, A-List breakers and barn cleaners are a little bit more efficient than skid steer, so lower greenhouse gas emissions here. As we included storage in this nice scenario, of course, there's methane emissions in storage, but as we reduce the retention time from six months to three months, we can see a reduction in methane emissions in storage, but, I mean, storage is the main driver here of methane emissions, but at the same time, it has some other benefits for water quality objectives that we need to consider, so it's probably not feasible to just get rid of, especially in Wisconsin, at this scale, large farms that unbelievably maneuvered to the storage system. In terms of surface application, sorry, land application, I didn't include ammonium emissions here, but, of course, injection reduced ammonia significantly, at the same time reducing indirect related potential nitrous oxide emissions that could happen from this ammonia, but also we saw that there was a slight increase in direct anti-emissions from injection instead of surface application, and the overall effect of these two was neutral here, so we saw no change in terms of anti-emissions here. Okay, so for the conclusions, we saw that small farms mostly emissions, all farms are mostly driven by application in the form of nitrous oxide, but then as farm size increases, that storage plays a huge role in methane, in the form of methane emissions. But then as the scale justified, there's some kind of processing that can be done in order to mitigate these emissions, and anaerobic digestion is probably pretty expensive for some farms, but there are some other strategies that we need to start considering, like just powers, you know, to reduce methane and also ammonia emissions. So there are these different strategies here that we need to consider in order to reduce our emissions in farms. So with that, I think I'm going to finish. Thanks to USDA for funding the project. If you want to see more information on this study, ammonia emissions, or the other management practices, and different energy consumption rates, etc., that's all included in the paper that's published in the journal in the production, or you can write me an email, or we can talk, I'm going to be here until Friday. So thanks so much. Now open to questions. Two questions. The first one, was diet assumed to be the same across all the facilities? No. Good question. No. We had information on the diet, so the diet was differentiated based on small-focal responses of the farms, so small farms, medium farms, so all have different diets, yes, and different milk productions, and different manure excretion rates, yes. So that would kind of matter there. And then for the follow-up, since you found that the storage was the greatest area, and you mentioned too, things like covers, aerobic storage, decreasing solid content in there, can all affect that. Do you guys have plans to take your model, look at that piece specifically? Yeah, that's a good question. I think that's something that we can start exploring, since that's like the big player here. Yes, yes. We were thinking about modeling different strategies, just focusing on storage. That would be great information. Okay. Perfect. Good to know. We're going to think about that, include that in our model. Sure. I know that the budget area does be there, but how long would, I assume the larger areas would have more capability to make change, is that right? Mm-hmm. Yes. What percentage of the cows would be in large areas? In large areas. Ah, that's a good question. I think we're creeping up to 50% of the, or maybe 40% of the animals are in large. Yeah, 22% of the animals. Oh, good. You're the other data guy. There you go. So still not a huge percentage of the cows are on large facilities, permanent facilities. So, what did you say, 20%? 20 to 25%. Yeah. So still a lot on smaller facilities. About 1,000? Yeah, animal units are above, so permanent. Yeah, but should you point it out, the majority of the outcomes in those farms, the other farms? Sure. They definitely usually have higher milk production per animal. Yep. Any other questions? How many other than 10,000 farms in the Wisconsin at 223 facilities? Yes? So, the white composting wasn't included? You know what? That's a good question. And we didn't get any composting in our survey. So, no farms were reported composting. Yeah. And we do see it. We certainly see it. But we didn't have any responses, so we didn't include that part. Correct? Okay. Thanks very much.