Farmers adapt to fight climate change
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yWSBCuNCJWA
News & Politics
 Farmers are often the first to feel the effects of global warming. Climate change directly impacts their crops and their businesses. CBS News' Natalie Brand introduces us to a Maryland farmer who is planning for the future with climate-smart techniques. Trey Hill lives the impacts of climate change as the seasons cycle through his Maryland farm. Our springs are colder and wetter. Our summers are hotter and drier. I mean, it's something that affects my livelihood and affects the future of my farm. But he's learned ways to fight back. The fourth-generation farmer started adopting climate-smart farming techniques 20 years ago. He plants cover crop after harvesting his commercial crop to keep the soil nourished during off-season. Balanza should be out here as well. And he avoids tilling or plowing to keep the dirt intact. That's what soil should look like. Scientist Ray Weil says this soil is actually capturing greenhouse pollution. What does that mean to climate change? Lots and lots of carbon. That was its carbon dioxide in the air is no longer in the air. It's now in the soil and it's going to stay here. Hill is working with a Seattle startup company to help measure how much he's reducing his carbon footprint. You have to sequester the carbon prior to marketing your credits. We sequester roughly one ton of carbon per acre per year. Not only a boost to the environment, but his bottom line. He sells his carbon credits on a marketplace where businesses or individuals can support the cause. So I get to pick my price. It's essentially an auction block. I sold carbon credits, bought this. It's a win-win the Biden administration hopes to encourage. It could be that agriculture and forestry could account for as much as 20, 25 percent of our response to climate change. Robert Bonney, a senior advisor on climate change at the USDA, says the agency is working on developing new tools, maybe even a carbon bank, to bring more participants to the table. We can get more investment into agriculture and forestry and benefit the climate at the same time. Well, I think the opportunities are endless. Ultimately, the goal is to encourage a new crop of farmers like Trey Hill paving the way in a growing field. Natalie Brand, CBS News, Rock Hall, Maryland.