Why Maintenance Matters in Agriculture: Your Comprehensive Guide to Farming Equipment Upkeep
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ywtgqTkiwE4
Howto & Style
 Hello and welcome everyone. I'm Ryan Chan, the CEO and founder of Upkeep. In this video, we will explore the unsung hero of agriculture, maintenance. We'll dive into why it's crucial for keeping farms operational year after year and how it helps adhere to the strict timeframes this industry follows. For any maintenance and operations teams tuning in, you'll learn about the different types of assets that require maintaining an agriculture and the common preventive measures. But before we get ahead of ourselves, let's start from the basics of agricultural maintenance. Stay tuned to get a closer look into this integral aspect of farming. Now let's talk about the importance of agricultural maintenance. Just like many industries, agriculture heavily relies on physical assets like machinery, mobile equipment, and buildings. It's crucial to keep everything running smoothly to avoid delays in vital agricultural processes such as seeding and harvesting. These processes are bound to strict timelines and the equipment used needs to be ready for operation on time. Hence, maintenance plays a crucial role in keeping farms going year after year. Both planned and unplanned maintenance are vital in keeping a farm operational. They help farmers stick to the strict timeframes prevalent in the industry while also ensuring safety. The role of maintenance in agriculture is to ensure farm equipment operates when it's needed. If machines used in agricultural processes are not ready for operation on time, there could be significant losses to the farm as a whole. Moreover, facilities meant to process and store foodstuffs must be kept safe, clean, and structurally sound to guarantee that the farm's product is safe for consumption. Specifically, agricultural maintenance serves these purposes, preventing breakdowns and accidents, keeping planting, fertilizing, harvesting, and so forth on schedule, and maintaining the quality of end products by calibrating thermometers, metal detectors, sensors, sensors, and more. Now let's take a look at the types of assets that need to be maintained in agriculture. Farms run on heavy equipment, much of which is maintained by farmers themselves. In addition, most farms have buildings that need to be kept clean and sound. Among the assets farmers need to maintain are tractors, seed drills, planters, balers, plows, manure spreaders, cultivators, harvesters, irrigation systems, storehouses, silos, sprayers, conveyor systems, mixers, fume washers, dispensers, and refrigeration or temperature control systems. The types of assets that need to be kept up depend on the farm's size and level of specialization. Who performs agricultural maintenance, you might ask? Often, farmers themselves are the ones who maintain their equipment. This means they need a wide breadth of knowledge about their machines, how the machines work, and how often the machines need to be maintained. In small, family-owned farms, all the maintenance may be performed by a single person, often with help from family members, whereas larger operations will have multiple hands on deck. Agriculture involves a lot of unskilled labor, and as such, farmers often have very little formal training when it comes to maintaining farming assets. This can lead to accidents and injuries as a result of poor maintenance practices. Let's now delve into common preventive maintenance checks for equipment maintenance and calibration. Farming equipment can be either mobile, like tractors, harvesters, and plows, or fixed in place, like conveyor belts, mixers, and pasteurizers. Regardless, each piece of equipment needs to be checked on a regular basis to make sure it operates reliably. The exact frequency with which you'll need to perform routine checks on your equipment depends on its level of usage, weather conditions, applications, and more. Some of the common checks include checking and changing fluids like engine oil, transmission fluid, coolants, and hydraulic fluid, lubricating moving parts, checking and changing filters, examining bearings, calibrating equipment, conducting damage inspections, winterizing equipment, and other routine upkeep. In addition to equipment, farms also involve fixed assets like buildings and land. Keeping facilities safe and in proper working order is a vital part of agricultural maintenance. This includes maintaining walls and surfaces, HVAC systems, drainage, structural integrity, lighting fixtures, and general property upkeep. As important as it is for farms to perform regular maintenance, it's equally important to make sure the maintenance is handled safely. One of the main causes of injury on a farm is machinery maintenance, ranking and frequency alongside fieldwork and animal care. Some of the safety measures include reading the owner's manual, shutting down and securing equipment before servicing, using adequate personal protective equipment, utilizing the correct tools, adding signage at hazardous areas, avoiding cross-contamination, seeking training, and planning maintenance tasks in advance. In conclusion, maintenance plays a vital role in agriculture by keeping equipment in reliable running shape. With sound planning and safety practices, farmers can carry out maintenance tasks on their equipment and buildings with minimal risk to their safety. And that brings us to the end of this video. We've covered the importance of maintenance in agriculture, the types of assets that require upkeep, and the safety measures that need to be taken. We hope this information has been valuable to you. If you found this content helpful, don't forget to subscribe to our channel for more insightful videos. To learn more about how upkeep can help your maintenance and operations teams visit our website at upkeep.com. Thank you for watching and we look forward to sharing more with you soon.