Hay Cutting Timing & Tips
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YwZtvMELRrM
Science & Technology
 When it comes to hay time, we're typically looking at development of seed head. We try to get all of our hay cut before everything goes to seed. The more palatable the forage is, feeding forages to them, the more it's digestible. So when we're out in our fields and we're looking, we're looking to see how much height we've got, what does the undergrowth look like, how developed are the seed heads. Then we're also looking at do we have the time for dry hay or do we have the time for the high moisture hay. When we high moisture hay, a lot of it does with time, but it also, the high moisture allows nutrients to stay in the bale. The sun bakes a lot of your proteins, your carbohydrates out of your hay. But when you do a high moisture hay, it allows all of those good nutrients to stay within the bale. And it's a good protector. It doesn't allow sun, rain, any type of weather to get to it, to where you have a total loss of feed value. And we'll start cutting, each year has varied. Some years, it's the first week of May, some years we've been able to get through the middle week. Years and years ago, we didn't start Memorial Day. And with the seasonal changes and the weather, we have to jump on the fields when time suits us. If the rain is plentiful, we can typically make a cutting throughout the summer. Same going into fall. Some years, we've been able to do a good first cutting, had to skip a summer cutting and just base everything into fall. We try not to cut too much hay or if we need to cut anything during a real dry year. Too hot, too dry, cutting it will send it into a dormant stage and your growth coming into fall won't be there. So we try to limit the amount of hay through the summer we have to cut unless we've had, you know, plentiful amount of rain. When making dry hay, we try to limit the amount of moisture. We have barns that are designed to store our hay in, so we try to keep our moisture around 10 to 12 percent. When you're round baling, it's all compacted and allows it to heat up. So if you control the amount of moisture inside the bale, you're less likely to have spoilage, you're less likely to have heat that can generate and be combustible and everything you've worked hard for all year can be at a total loss. We have in the past done some hay testing to find out what the quality, what the total digestible nutrients that are involved. If you have some fields that you're questionable on, does the stand of orchard grass look right? Did I make the quality of hay right? Was it too dry? Was it too wet? How much weeds do we have in our quality of hay? You want the best that you can give to your animals each and every day when you're feeding. If you have questions about the quality that you're making, call your agronomist, call your local representative, have them come down, probe your bale, send it off and get samples. They're there, utilize the resources that benefit you. So anyhow, would you just reconcile today?