Greentech 2025 | Horticulture Fair With Vertical Farming
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YZ0HdFfjUTs
Science & Technology
 We will be ready in September to roll up some ideas and corporations. So I think we all should say stay tuned and follow us. Yeah. So I'm here in Amsterdam now at Green Tech Fair. And if you are in the horticulture space, then this is the event of the year, in my opinion. In here we are seeing a lot of greenhouse technologies and there is a lot of vertical farming technology as well. This is the fifth time I'm here. And the first couple of times I was here five years ago, six years ago maybe, there was two booths with vertical farming. And today we are seeing around 30% of the booths are around vertical farming. So it's really taking off and there we can see that there's a lot of vertical farming technologies that are trending and the trend shows clearly that we are moving up in the industry and it's getting more and more popular. So if you are not at this event or haven't heard of it before, I thought I would make this video. So you wouldn't miss anything. I took some videos from in the fair and in there you can see some of the most interesting things that I found. So hopefully I'm going to have a video as well with Krister who is also in the vertical farming industry. He's doing the grow pipes. So grow pipes is from Sweden and they are doing essentially vertical stacked grow systems in NFT channels. And it's a really cool way of getting in touch with industry leaders and learning more about the industry. Because if you are serious about going into something and being serious about a vertical farm, then this is the place to be. If you are not here this year or haven't heard of it, then maybe you should consider going here next year. Because a lot of industry experts are here. You can learn a lot about greenhouse technologies and vertical farming in general. So let's go in and see how it looks and see what is there. How do you see the greenhouse? As you can see in one of these halls we have a lot of automation. A lot of automation for bigger greenhouses and also possibly vertical farms. And there are different halls. We have a lot of the greenhouse technologies. We have some vertical farming. There is also some medical cannabis to see. And we are really seeing what can be done in the irrigation and in the greenhouse technology. And a lot of different AI companies are here. And it's really the place to be if you want to network with other people who are also part of this industry. Well, we are here the third day and the last day. Yeah. So it's around three o'clock. So it's getting a bit quiet. That's why we are walking the hills. Just catching up these two days or three days for your side. Yeah. How was the fair for you? I mean, I must say, I like this fair. It's more greenhouse, less vertical, true vertical farming. However, I think it's a nice combination of those both still. So, yeah. Yeah. It's nice being here, meeting people like you. Yeah. Same too. Likewise. Yeah, just catch up. We don't have a booth this year. But I would like to have a booth probably next year. Yeah. To showcase and to also talk about the projects that we are doing. Both in Scandinavia and elsewhere. And showcase some real cases. So, I would really like to be here one day at least. Hopefully next year. Yeah. Have you seen anything nice here, Anders, that you would like to talk about? Yeah. So, I saw that there has been some different light companies, irrigation companies. It's nice to see what people are doing and being on the forefront of what's happening in the industry. Very much so. I think it's great to see the levels of automation. There's AI companies sprouting up and just seeing how people are moving in the industry in general. Yeah. There's a lot of new stuff coming up. It will take time to finalize some of these bigger AI and robotics and so on. Maybe it will be coming, maybe not. But I like to see all kind of suppliers. The thing is really to put together the right suppliers. Yeah. Yeah. And to sell the so-called turnkey solutions in different sizes. Yeah. And lighting is definitely one big thing within vertical farming. Mm-hmm. And as always, you see all these 20, 30, 40 LED lamp companies. Yeah. Yeah. So, yeah. There are some innovations there, obviously. A lot of climate controlling. A lot of different substrates. Yeah. And it's really like when you're coming from the outside of the industry, it can really be a big jungle, like because there's so many different suppliers. It is a jungle and that's why we need people like you. Thank you. You know, selecting, you know, the right partners. Yeah. I think it's very important. And obviously, keep an eye on what is happening on the market. Mm-hmm. Yeah. I mean, now it's getting quite quiet walking here. Yeah. Most people are already packing the booths. Yeah. But a huge turn up this year as well. Yeah. In the Vista cells. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Definitely. Yeah. And it's good to go here and connect and also get some ideas together about how we can further develop things and, you know, combine the true vertical with the micro-green development that you're doing. Yeah. And also the cells. Combine those two packages. Yeah. So that your customers also can offer more, let's say, more turnkey solutions or more turnkey produced to their clients. So let's, I think that's very interesting. And then I also, in fact, yeah, I mean, there is some optimism here for sure. Mm-hmm. And I hope that it will keep on and that next year it will be even more interesting to be here. And I think that could be a good way also next year to keep on networking, you know. Yeah, I agree. And the guys you're working with, you know, meet them, maybe do something, or something together, just showcasing your clients, what is actually happening. Yeah. Yeah. But that's seen, you know. And you are also a lot into the NFT and the vertical NFT with your systems. Very much so. So I think it would be very nice to just showcase the true vertical NFT system here and talk about the advantages, but also showcase what we are talking about and trying to implement in Scandinavia and elsewhere. Yeah. Make scalable models that are standardized. Yeah. Much more. Easy to work with. Yeah. Yeah. So I think that's a step that we have been taking the last couple of months and we will keep on doing it. It will probably be a couple of more slow months ahead this summer. Yeah. But we are... I think it takes time. Yeah. But we will be ready in September to roll up some ideas and corporations. So I think we all should say, you know, stay tuned and follow us. Yeah. Where can people find you? Well, you can find me through disputes like Nordic Hydro, but you can also contact me directly on growpipes.com where we have all the contact details or the social media. So whenever you reach out, I will forward it to Anders if it's his territory or elsewhere if it's some new markets, but something we can talk about. Yeah. Sounds good. Yeah. Sounds really good. Yeah. Is there anything you would like to add or... No, I think it's just nice being here and nice meeting you. Nice meeting you too, Christa, as always. Yeah. Always a pleasure. Yeah. Thank you. Okay. Bye bye. Bye bye.