Strategies for feeding the world more sustainably with organic agriculture (Nature communications)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z4daLqmureU
Science & Technology
 Intensification of agriculture has greatly increased food availability over recent decades. However, this has led to big adverse environmental impacts such as nitrogen surplus, greenhouse gas emissions, devastation and biodiversity loss. Feeding 9 billion of people in 2050 with ever increasing per capita consumption of meat, milk and eggs will further exacerbate this. We need those alternatives to achieve sustainable food systems. Many experts propose organic agriculture as a promising approach to achieving this, but many other experts contest its feasibility because of lower yields and thus increasing land use. To contribute to this discussion, we quantify the role that organic agriculture could play in a sustainable food system. For this, we built a new global food systems model which for the first time allows to comprehensively capture organic production systems. Our modeling results have recently been published in Nature Communications. Here is an example. In this graph, you see the FO projections for the food systems in 2050. We find a 100% conversion to organic agriculture needs up to 30% more land than conventional agriculture, but reduces nitrogen surplus and pesticide use significantly. Here the critics are right. Organic agriculture cannot feed the world without huge increases in land use, if we assume the consumption patterns as forecasted by the FAO, which includes increasing consumption of animal products and high food wastage levels. And exactly this is important. To fully analyze food systems, we cannot focus on production only. We need to also address consumption. Thus, we also calculated what happens when we implement further sustainability strategies. First, this is reduced use of animal feed that competes with human food production, such as grains and forage waste from croplands. Second, we looked at the reduction of food wastage. And here are the results of what it looks like when we reduce food wastage and food-competing feed by 50%. It is clear that this means a severe cut in production consumption of animal products. Land use under organic agriculture remains slightly below the FO protections, and we still have the benefits from reduced nitrogen surplus and pesticide use. Thus, organic agriculture can contribute to sustainable food systems. The question on whether organic agriculture can feed the world needs to address not only yields, but also waste strategies, livestock feed and human consumption. In our paper, you can find further results on additional environmental indicators and on other scenarios that also include the impact of climate change. With our modeling results, we hope to contribute to an unprejudiced discussion of sustainable food systems.