How to Fix Light Sandy Garden Soil in the Vegetable Patch
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z77yzPHQqQE
Howto & Style
 Over time, garden soil can get depleted, lose its nutrients, but not only that, its structure, get really sandy, light, and that's not great for growing veggies in. G'day, I'm Mark from Self-Sufficient Me, and in this video, I'm gonna show you how to transform your light, depleted or sandy soil into a better growing medium so that you can get the best crop out of your veggies. Let's get into it. So how can you tell if your veggie garden soil is lacking that structure? Well, first of all, you can just grab it and see. If it easily flies through your fingers, like sand through the hourglass, so are the days of your gardening lives, well then, it's light. A good garden soil should be able to squish together a bit, and I've said this many times, and then you should be able to make a fist with it, and then press and break it apart, and it should crumble. It shouldn't be sticky like clay, but it shouldn't just flow through the fingers either. The other way you can tell is how did the last crop go, or how are the plants growing at the moment? In here, we've got some turmeric and a little bit of Jerusalem artichoke. They're not growing very well. They're certainly not as robust and as green and big as they should be, and that's because they're just simply not getting enough water. And also, they're probably not getting enough nutrients, because when the water is going into this loose, sandy bed, it's just going straight through and washing all the nutrients away from the roots of the plants. So they look scranky, if that's a word. And there's another way. If you dig through and you don't see much signs of life, like I mean animal life, such as worms, mealy bugs, anything. There's nothing in here, even grubs, not even a pest. Well, that's a bad sign because you want your beds to be living. You want to see the odd worm or grub or mealy bug or something in there, ants even, but there's nothing. So how do we improve a bed like this? Well, there's a number of ways and it's really easy and simple. We'll come back and we'll fix that bed, the first example up soon. But what I want to show you is this next one, which has a similar problem, light soil. And this is fairly light, a little bit from my own making. I like to recycle our potting mix. And when you have an old pot that has some old dry potting mix in it, I'll throw it into the garden bed because it's good organic matter, even though it's depleted. But you sort of transfer that problem into the garden, which is fine because I know I can improve it easier in a garden bed here. If you can see a bit of rust on the bottom here, that's because this isn't a raised birdies garden bed. This is an imitation. If you want a proper good raised birdies garden bed, like the ones behind it that don't rust, have a look in the description below and you'll see links for the USA, Australia, and NZ, and where you can get the good ones. Yes, this loose soil, a lot of it is potting mix on top. And what I've done here is I've knocked all the weeds down and that's going to help. That's the first thing. If you do have some young weeds sitting in the bed, they haven't gone to seed yet, knock them down and use them. Don't just pull them out because you're actually pulling out and depleting the soil more by removing those weeds. Leave them in there, chop them up, mulch them back into that soil. And that is the first stage. And then the next stage from this garden bed is this one here that I'm already preparing. You can see on top, the soil is heavier, but it's not soil. This is actually more cow manure than soil. There is a little bit of soil mixed up in this and some rocks and some pebbles and other types of things that add good minerals to this mix, but it's primarily cow dung. And it is quite heavy on its own. See how that almost looks like clay, but you can see the still the bits of grass and organic matter all through that. It's wonderful. And it does eventually dry out and get a little less heavier just naturally, like all soil does or all organic matter. But for this stage, it's great to pump up your bed and to improve that structure with animal manures, whatever manure you do use. It's also adding that extra nutrient. You don't want to overdo it. I've just got a few inches on top here, and I will be just digging that in lightly with the rest of that soil to mix it in. I'm not going to go down too deep. The worms and microbes and mealy bugs and that, they will help distribute that soil through the top layer. Now, I also should say this cow manure has been in a pile, rotting and breaking down for nearly 12 months. That's why it doesn't look like cow manure anymore. It's very well rotted and broken down. It doesn't smell like poop. It smells really nice, like good organic soil. And to the naked eye, not many people would be able to tell that that is actually one big round cow patty. But I do want to add one other thing to it. And that is some fish compost. Now, I haven't been able to get some good compost going over this last six months. We've had a lot of rain. My composting area is all damp and muddy. So Ocean to Earth approached me and they've given me this product to try, but I've since bought a whole heap of it myself as well with my own money. So it's not all free stuff, but I do genuinely believe, and I'll give you a quick rundown on it. This is made from fish carcasses and fish waste that comes from boat ramps. At the moment, it's down south in the Bega region, Marimbula, Bermagui, and they collect all that fish waste from the boat ramps. As the fishermen come in, they put all their waste into a special bin that gets collected. And then they compost it down into big piles and make this magnificent compost material that you can put straight into your garden. It's only available at the moment in Australia, but I just think it's a fantastic idea. I do have an affiliate arrangement with these guys. It's a deal for you as well. If you use the code that I've put below the video in the description here, you will get 5% discount on their three and 1.5 liter bags, and also free postage. So I think that's a pretty good deal. And you're helping the environment at the same time. Plus you're just getting a really great product. But anyway, the reason why I do want to use this compost in here on top of the manure or mixed in with it is because this will help it break down a little bit. I mean, a heavier bed is always better than a lighter bed because light sandy soil doesn't hold nutrients, doesn't hold water. You have to water more often. The nutrients get depleted easy. And if it's slightly heavier, at least your veggies will do a lot better than a sandy light bed. This is going to just help break up that manure just a little bit. So it's not as heavy. And it's also going to add some new minerals, trace elements and nutrients, and that should complete this bed. That's what I reckon anyway. And this is what it looks like. Looks... Absolutely no smell, no fishy smell or anything, but look how black it is. Oh, absolutely fantastic. I'm going to use this whole packet, a three liter packet. I'm going to sprinkle it around on top of that manure. Now it's a matter of just digging this in. Probably about six to eight inches down. Take your time with it. Make sure it's nicely blended in. Now I know some people will be saying, oh Mark, what about no dig gardening? Here you are digging through. And I get it. When you've got an established garden bed that doesn't need repair, the less dig you do into it, the better it is. Of course it is, because you're not disturbing the microbes and the worms and all that type of thing, all the fun guys. But if you find a bed that's depleted, well, seriously, this is one of the only ways you can really, in a quick amount of time, improve the bed. It's a matter of digging, pulling it towards you, digging down and then pushing back. And that way you're throwing and mixing in. It's like making a cake, except it's a manure cake. Right, just even it out a little bit. That's looking really good. Now, the last thing I'm going to do is I'm going to add some mulch. In this case, it's sugar cane mulch. You can use wood chip. You can use grass clippings, as long as they're dried out and they don't have seed in them. Otherwise you'll get in a lot of trouble putting grass seed through your bed. The reason why I want to add mulch on top of this bed is that it'll just help settle that manure and compost mix. It will take a few weeks to settle down. You still can plant straight into that and the plants will grow well. It'll all break down at the same time as the plants are growing, but that mulch on top will just protect it from crusting over or protect it, extra protection from the elements and from the extra rain or sun or whatever. The mulch itself will break down eventually and get completely absorbed into the soil. I think in this bed here, I'm going to add some strawberries. Strawberry season is starting to come in soon and I've got a whole bunch of runners cascading over from last season's crop. I'm going to plant those new runners into here. You can dig down here straight away, hand in, clump some together. Oh, that's looking really good. Job's done. One dry, sandy, loose, depleted bed is now good for growing again. Now let's do the same to this one, but let's harvest this out first. Not bad growth. Some good turmeric here. Oh, dropped him. Anyway, look at that. Here's the Jerusalem artichoke. They're best eaten fresh or pickled if you want to keep them hard. Otherwise they go soft pretty quick, but you eat the root. Tastes a bit like globe artichoke, but except it's the root. Then the rest of it is weeds and also some Ruby Streaks mustard. I'll just dig that back in. This is worse than the other bed. This is really loose. And you can see it's lost a bit of height too because it's compacted down, but also the extra organic matter that was in the base of this bed is slowly decaying and the bed is naturally sinking. Right now that all the weeds and that mustard is dug in, just to give it that extra organic matter under here. What we'll do now is we'll add that manure in. Well rotted manure. Been around for a while this stuff. Spread it on top. Okay. Drizzle that all over the place. Oh yeah. That's going to make a world of difference. Smooth it over. That looks really good. That's a big improvement on what it was. Yeah. Yeah. It's not running through my fingers now, is it? That's lovely. Let's whack some mulch on top of it. I'm so happy with how this is turning out. This is going to grow some good veg in this coming new season. Well, I hope you enjoyed this video. If you did, make sure you get a big regenerative, degenerative, not a degenerate, but a big kookaburra soil improvement thumbs up. Share the video around and subscribe if you haven't already. Come on, subscribe and hit that bell. Thanks a lot for watching. I'm going to get out of the rain. Bye for now. Bye.