Urban cheese shop in Butchertown specializes in local farmstead cheeses
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zcm2BvPwlmY
News & Politics
 Hey, good morning guys. Yeah, so you know when you are around a charcuterie board and you're like, well, I don't know what they did or what this stuff is, but it tastes good, it looks good, and I love it. Well, we're going to learn a little bit more about the work that goes into it. Jessica, you're the owner of Cultured. Talk to me a little bit about the cheeses that you use, because I think we all might know, recognize the brand and the name. Right, right, right, yeah. So we use Kenny's Cheese, and Kenny is my dad. So I grew up on the farm and, you know, watched the whole cheese thing come to fruition, and so they've been making cheese for over 25 years now, and this is kind of my way of expanding on the family business. Nice, and so what do we have here? You're going to kind of break down the process and also what these cheeses are and how they taste. Yeah, so this is the peppercorn Asiago, which is a harder cheese, so this also just comes in the regular Asiago. Asiago is kind of a sweeter Parmesan, so this has peppercorns in it as well. So with this one, a lot of the cheeses will have this wax on them, like this peppercorn does, and this Swiss does over here. So this has to come off of this before we can cut it into the tiny triangles that you'll see on your board, but this starts out as a whole giant wheel of cheese. I feel like sometimes I don't realize how much goes into making these cute little boards. Oh yeah, oh yeah, and then we have to stare at the wheel of cheese and say, are we going to get a triangle, are we going to get a square, are we going to have to crumble it? What are we going to do with this to make it work for us? So while you're peeling that, what are these cheeses over here? So this one is the St. Jerome. So the St. Jerome is, we kind of say it's a cheddar Gouda baby. It's a hybrid, it's really buttery and creamy. It's also another signature cheese of my dad's. This one is the Swiss, and we can tell as soon as we open up the Swiss, and the Gouda does this a lot of times too, where it kind of gets a little airy in here. So we know we're not going to be able to get any shape out of it. Wow, and so as you are peeling that back, that's another layer that you have to go through before you even start cutting it. Yeah, so this is the polycoat. It is edible, but we do pull it off. Okay. That usually doesn't work that well, so that's really nice. Yeah, it did it for us this morning. And then you cut it with this every time. Yeah, so this is the cheese cutter at the cheese wire. Wow. Hopefully it won't break on us. Successful. So cut it several times to get down to a tiny, tiny little triangle. And you hope to get it as even as possible. Oh my gosh, well while she does that, we are going to send it back to you guys. We're going to make a board this morning, so next time we're going to talk about meats that will go on our charcuterie board that we will make. This is mesmerizing. It is. Watching the cheese cut so perfect. It is.