Agriculture - Types of farming in India || Subsistence Intensive Extensive Commercial etc
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zgdIQyM__w4
Film & Animation
 Agriculture in India In India, agriculture is considered as a primary livelihood for most of the population, which can never be underestimated. Agriculture is the only sector that contributes to itself and other countries' sectors. India is the second largest wheat, rice, cotton, fruit, vegetables and tea producer. It is also a global powerhouse of agricultural production. Now, let's have a look at types of farming in India. Subsistence Farming The majority of farmers in India practice subsistence farming, farming for their consumption. The entire production is largely consumed by the farmers and their families, and they do not have any surplus to sell in the market. In this type of farming, land holdings are small and fragmented. Cultivation techniques are primitive and simple. Intensive and Extensive Farming Intensive and Extensive Farming The basic difference between these two types of farming is the amount of production per unit of land. In comparison with the temperate areas of USA and Canada, India does not practice extensive cultivation. When a large patch of land is used for cultivation, then we call it extensive farming. Here, total production may be high due to the larger area, but per unit production is low. Commercial Farming It is just the opposite of subsistence farming as most of the produce is sold in the market for earning money. In this system, farmers use inputs like irrigation, chemical fertilizers, insecticides, pesticides, high yielding varieties of seeds, etc. Some of the major commercial crops grown in different parts of India are cotton, jute, sugarcane, groundnut, etc. If you want to know more about all the types of agriculture in India, click on the link that is given in the description below. And comment, have you visited and seen any type of farming? If yes, where and what farming? Let us know in the comment section below and if you like this video, do like, share and subscribe to Plufo YouTube channel.