NCROC Agronomy Research
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zHjT3MsKyeQ
People & Blogs
 I'm Dan Broughton, the Operations Manager and Research Agronomist here at the North Central Research and Outreach Center. Welcome and thank you for joining us for a virtual tour of all things agronomy. Agronomic research at the center explores the unique agricultural systems as well as their sustainability within the north central growing region of Minnesota. We have distinct challenges of soil, water and climate to the region which require crop production solutions that do not compromise these critical resources. Not only to the cropping system sustaining valuable food resources but as well to preserve the area's vital natural resources such as our pristine forest and our abundant lakes and rivers. All these things bring forth a gorgeous landscape full of hardwood and coniferous trees intermixed with rolling farmland. The broad and diverse range of agricultural systems tied together with abundant natural resources in the area provide distinctive opportunities for us within the field of agronomy here at the center. The broad and diverse range of local producers are more competitive in an ever-changing agricultural landscape. A great example of this are studies focusing on forage production. This includes the evaluation of suitable cultivars for maximum crop production potential for the more northern climates we have here. We evaluate cultivars of legume species such as alfalfa and as well as grass forage species like timothy and orchard grass. We measure their feed quality, their biomass production and also test their longevity and winter survivability. We also got some newer research looking into the lignin content of the alfalfa crop along with its manipulation in the number of cuttings that we use during haying which ultimately can affect feed quality. In the same nature, we do cultivar evaluation and yield production as well on other crops such as soybeans, corn grain and corn silage production. These crops are highly valuable as well and it is important again to look at these cultivars and what is the most successful in this northeast region on those as well. As I stated earlier, the agronomy program here strives to collaborate with other units within the university as well. A great partnership at the center has been with the Minnesota Long-Term Agricultural Research Network. This statewide network provides a coordinated approach to agriculture research and outreach that is geographically scalable, systems-orientated and multidisciplinary. The Grand Rapids Center houses one of three sites within the state that conducts this research, which includes other locations such as Waseca and Lamberton. As we continue to collaborate with university faculty and staff, as well as with private industry representatives, we continue to hope to fine-tune agriculture production practices for the north-central region, all the while developing a more complete understanding of efficient cultivation and farm management techniques to strategically position northern Minnesota farms while enhancing crop productivity, all the while leading to positive economic gains within the region. I'd like to leave you with the beauty and progression of this growing season at our crops research facility here in Grand Rapids. Again, thank you so much for visiting us virtually. I hope you enjoyed your time seeing what agronomy research does here at NICROC. Thank you. Thank you.