How a Nigerian Pilot Became a Millionaire from Livestock Farming
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zIfx3SEDhhU
Travel & Events
 Meet Sadiq Mohamed, a Nigerian entrepreneur who is building one of Nigeria's fastest growing animal farms. We focus a lot on quality to produce animals that are much bigger than average and we also sell the seeds to other farmers. Originally a pilot, he made a bold decision to venture into farming, a move that changed his life. I'm a commercial pilot. I love airplanes but I think I love cows more than airplanes. Are you still a pilot? Yeah, I'm still a pilot. Amazing. In today's video, he shares his inspiring journey from starting from nothing to becoming a billionaire serial entrepreneur. Get ready to learn from his experiences, challenges and the secrets behind his success. Maybe 98 to 99% of the livestock we consume in the country are produced by pastoralists, not by farmers. So there's a lot of opportunity. Hi, my name is Sadiq Mohamed. I'm the CEO of NIME Farms and you are welcome to our demonstration farm. Thank you. And then maybe later we can drive to the farm and see what we do over there as well. Okay. What inspired you to start NIME Farms and what's your story like? Okay, NIME Farms was born out of my passion for animals, you know. I've been raising animals since I was a kid. I had pigeons. I still do. I still keep pigeons. Rabbids, chicken, you know. So organically, I started keeping bigger animals like sheep and cows. Yeah. And then, you know, it also organically grew into a business, you know. Started out as something that I was passionate about. Yeah. Just for fun. But yeah, it's grown into a business. Amazing. Yeah. What's your background like? Okay, I'm a commercial pilot. I love airplanes, but I think I love cows more than airplanes. So you went into pilot school? Yeah, yeah, I went to flight school. Wow. Are you still a pilot? Yeah, yeah, I'm still a pilot. Amazing. Yeah. I've been flying for a long time, maybe over 15 years now. Wow. Like I said, I've always loved animals since I was a kid. I started out with, you know, keeping pigeons, rabbits, chicken. And then as I grew, I developed interest in bigger animals as well, like cattle and sheep. And then, you know, it's organically grew into a business because there's a huge demand for beef in the country, you know. We've got a massive population of 200 million people. Yeah. There's a huge demand for protein, you know. Yeah. And, you know, the livestock sector is also, is not as structured as the poultry. I would say 99 to, maybe 98 to 99% of the livestock we consume in the country are produced by pastoralists, not by farmers. Okay. So there's a, there's a lot of opportunity there. And it needs a lot of restructuring and investment. So we need to invest in quality genetics. We have animals that are very, very hardy and adaptable to our environment that don't need a lot of care and management, but they are not efficient animals. So we need to bring in genetics from outside Nigeria. Okay. Be it semen, embryos or live animals to improve the efficiency and the genetics of our animals. We have animals that take a long time to get to slaughter with. Okay. And animals that do not produce a lot of milk compared to European breeds. Oh. So I'll show you some animals over there. We have some animals that are crossbreed between our local animals and foreign breeds. Yeah, exactly. Okay. And then, I will show you one of the cows over there. She was imported from South Africa. Okay. She's a pure bone-smart cow. Why do you focus on large breeds of castle or bones? You know, you want animals, less animals that will give you more. You know, a bigger animal that has a lot of meat is better than keeping a lot of animals that don't pack a lot of muscle. Yeah, exactly. So these animals, we didn't breed these animals. We bought and fattened them. Okay. Um, these are some of the animals that were bred on the farm. So we look for animals that have good conformation. Then we fatten. We want animals that after fattening would fetch us good money. So the bigger, the better. How many cats do you have in total? Here on the, on this demonstration farm, we have 23 cows. We have sheep and ram. We have maybe 60 to 70 sheep, rams and eels plus the lambs as well. So we have maybe 70 and then we have a few goats at the back. So, you know, because this, these animals are fed intensively. Okay. So we cannot keep a lot of animals. Yeah. Yeah. And this is where we bring our clients is in, you know, in the city. It's convenient for people to come and see. Yeah. It's quite accessible. Exactly. Yeah. To see what they want and we deliver. And then, you know, selling the animals here. Then we, we bring in more animals to this place. You can see this place is not very big. So we don't, we can't put, put in a lot of animals. So what's this land sitting on? Ah, I have no idea. I don't know how big it is, but maybe a thousand square meter. Okay. Uh, I'm not sure. Yeah. So could you take us around? Yeah. Yeah. Sure. I see. So are they aggressive? No, no, no. Okay. They're not. So how many breeds of, um, bull you wear here? Well, here we have these red ones. I call, uh, the red ones over there. Yeah. This red one. Yeah. And some of the red ones you see here are called a red bororo. Red bororo. Or a rahaji. Rahaji. Okay. Another name for them is a red fullani. Okay. And the one I was standing next to, the white one, the white one, it's called Sokoto Gudali. Okay. I think I've heard that. Yeah. Yeah. They call them Bokolo as well. Okay. So these are different breeds here. These are some cross breeds. Oh. Yeah. Yeah. I'll show you. You see the one, the ones without the hump, uh, cross breeds. You know, the thuring breed, the European breeds, uh, do not have humps. The Zebu type cattle found in, uh, Zebu, the breeds with the hump. Okay. The humps, uh, are the ones that, uh, have hump. You find them in some parts of Africa and the Indian, uh, subcontinent, India, Bangladesh, Pakistan. We've got Zebu breeds as well over there. Yeah. So yeah. You see like this cow is a cross breed between our local Sokoto Gudali. It's a cross breed between our Sokoto Gudali and, uh, uh, Cemental. Uh, so the main reason why we do the cross breeding is, uh, we want to improve the growth rate, um, and we want to produce animals that would mature faster and still being adaptable and still being hardy to thrive in this climate. Environment. Yeah. So she's an F1. Meaning she's a first filial generation. She's 50% Cemental and 50% Bokolo. So she retains that ruggedness and, uh, hardiness. So we still have that ruggedness. Exactly. From the Bokolo genes. From the Bokolo genes. And then that, uh, fast maturity, uh, and also, you know, Cemental is a dual purpose animal. So the milk yield is going to be much higher than, you know, a pure Bokolo. And she's only two years old. Wow. Yeah. That cattle is two years old. Yeah. Yeah. She's two years old. Wow. And it's that big. Yeah. Yeah. This is a pure Sokoto Gudali. Okay. Yeah. She's a pure Sokoto Gudali. I see even the Sokoto Gudali is the good breed that you have. Yeah. Yeah. We select, you know, we just don't buy animals. This animal was born here. She, she, she's two years old too. Wow. Uh, she's got a very good sire. This sire, uh, was an exceptional bull that produced very fatal daughters. And, uh, he produced calves that, uh, really grew very fast. This cow, a normal Sokoto Gudali, an average Sokoto Gudali, gets to puberty at, uh, uh, two years to three years of age. Okay. But this cow became pregnant at, uh, one year is four months. Wow. Sixteen months of age. Unfortunately, we lost the cow. She cowed, like, um, less than two months ago, maybe six weeks ago, but we lost the cow. And she, she crossed yesterday. What are the offspring for this? No, you know, a cow in, in, in a cow's life, uh, life, uh, span, lifespan would produce maybe 10 to 15 cows on average, uh, because, you know, the gestation period is nine months. And then after a cow gives birth, it needs a bit of time, maybe two, three months to recuperate, you know, before it takes him again, and then wait for another nine months for it to give birth. We produce animals with good disposition. It's one of the, I could tell when I came to here. It's one of the things we, we, we select one of the treats we select and breed it. Animals with good disposition. And why is that important? Exactly. You see, there's people walking around. You've got people walking around. You also interact with the cows. So you don't want to produce aggressive animals that would harm your employees. You get what I'm saying? Those cows that you see, uh, roaming around are cows that, uh, are not produced through selective breeding. You get what I mean? There's a lot. There's maybe a hundred of them moving. Whichever male gets lucky, meets any cow that is on heat and she becomes pregnant. Yeah. Yeah. Like, but here we select, there's certain traits will grow to confirmation disposition. These are some of the traits we, we, we look at exactly when selecting styles. You get so long. These animals, this is, I'm just used to carrying this. It's not because I'm carrying this because I'm worried about being attacked by one of these animals. No, it's just, uh, I'm just used to carrying, um, the stick. So they have very, very good disposition. And you know, a calm animal, there is no G3 and he's not, um, shy or aggressive towards people gains weight easily. Yeah. True. It's calm. It's calm. It's calm. It's all about eating. Exactly. Just eat, drink water and rest. When an aggressive animal is always looking out, you hear, there were very G3 animals that actually don't really gain weight and, uh, and they don't do very well. I agree with you. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So that's why we want calm animals. It's also safer. You create a safer environment for, for people that work there and you yourself here. Yeah. Yeah. So, uh, disposition and temperament is very, very important when you breed. That is the, one of the cows that we imported the once more you can see, she's solid. She packs a lot of muscle. Is that it looks like what I've seen, um, it's a beef breed is about, um, Botswana, South Africa. Yeah. It was developed in South Africa. Actually, the Monswana was developed in South Africa because what happened is when the Europeans, uh, the Dutch, um, Europeans settled in South Africa, they came in with a lot of animals, but the animals they brought in from Europe were not thriving. They were not, um, doing very well. Okay. Because, you know, Africa is hot. There's a lot of parasites. Yeah. And all that. So they now decided to treat a breed that would be very efficient and also adaptable to the environment. So they, they crossed, uh, the English hothorn, the Hereford, which are very good, uh, beach breeds. And then they cross them with an Africana breed. Africana breed is indigenous to South Africa. Okay. It's a robust breed that, uh, can survive in the harsh African, um, climate. And then they have very good resistance to parasites and also the heat, the heat tolerance. So they combined it three breeds to produce the Bonsmaras. So at the moment, 40% of registered animals in South Africa are Bonsmaras because they were, they were, they were bred to thrive in that environment. And they do very well. Yeah. They produce very good meat. You know, the European beef breeds produce better quality meat than ours. Our meat is a bit chewy. It's lean. Their beef they produce is, has got better marbling. So when you grill it, it's more tender and more flavorful because of the, the intramuscular fat and the meat. Yeah. So they still have that trait. They maintain the trait of, um, the carcass quality trait and at the same time being very, very hardy. Yeah. So they are good for steak. Excellent. Excellent for steak. Yeah. So what do you have here? So, you know, you want to meet the nutritional requirement of your animals. And at the same time, you want to make it as affordable and as, uh, shall I use cheap as possible? Mm-hmm. You get, so we use a lot of, uh, crop residue. Mm-hmm. Like beans pod. This is, uh, sogum pod. Mm-hmm. So it's not, it's not, uh, uh, yeah, it's not, uh, what do you call it? It's not, you don't have high nutritional value, but it's fiber. You know, the animals, the ruminants need a lot of fiber. Oh, yeah, exactly. So we, we, in our, in our feed formulation, we use, uh, this, uh, crop residue just to, to, you know, um, make it not so expensive because, you know, uh, feeding is, is very expensive. Exactly. And then here you can see, this is, uh, granote forage. So after you harvest your granote, the forage, we also use, we use it to feed the animals. We also do here, bracharia here. Okay. We feed the animals with bracharia here. So all these are from litter here? Sir? In the farm here? The bracharia is grown on the farm. Okay. Yeah. We, we grow maybe 20 hectares of bracharia. Uh, but this is, we buy this from farmers. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. This we buy from farmers. The crop residue we buy from farmers, local farmers, uh, around Abuja. Abuja. Yeah. And Nassarawa. Yeah. Uh, so even over there, that's what we, we formulate the feed. Then we use a lot of maize bran and, uh, a bit of wheat offal as well in our mix. Okay. PKC is good as well. What's PKC? Um, cannel cake. Cake. Okay. It's high in protein. It's got a higher protein content than, uh, maize bran. Yeah. So we use that too. So actually this is one of our very good hypers. She's one year, yeah, one year, seven months old. Wow. Well, you can see the size because she has a very good, she's from a very good dam and the desire was also an excellent bull. So you can see this cow weighs over 400 kilograms right now. Wow. Yeah. And she's, uh, how much does an average cow here costs? The bulls, the large bulls, um, that weigh like 700 kg, 720 kg, we go for like 2.5 centimeters. Wow. Um, we sell our bulls for 3,500, uh, per kg, live wheat. Yeah. That's what we do. 3.5 per kg. So we go bulls, uh, 720, 750, some less than 700 kg. Oh. Yeah. There's a very famous bull, Angus bull, from Old White Sires, uh, in Texas. His name is, uh, Seats, Seats Wisdom. Uh, it's a very good, uh, the quality Angus bull. So he's the sire of this bull. So there's, uh, we do a lot of, uh, artificial insemination as well. Okay. So you import the semen? Yeah. The semen is already here. There's semen available at Integrated Diaries in Joss. Where are you from? Oh. So they, they are partners with the World White Sires. Okay. So they import semen and we get semen from them. Uh, there's quite a few. Even the cow over there, the black one, she's also an Angus cross. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. She's an Angus cross, uh, from the same sire, Seats Wisdom. So we, this, this, this, this bull's, uh, dam is, is a Bokolo. And then she was inseminated, uh, with Angus semen. And then, you know, he is, he's a very, very fast, uh, growing bull. He was recently moved here. He was on the farm, grazing. He was on any concentrate or anything, but you could see he's, he's packed, uh, a lot of muscle. You see? Yeah. You can see. You see, look at the, the physique, the conformation of the animal. You can see he's packing up a lot of muscle. So where do you see the future of agriculture and also the future of, um, new farm in the next five years? Five years is not a very long time. Yeah, it's not. In farming. Five years is not a very long time in farming. But yeah, I see growth. Uh, like I said, you know, we, we didn't start big. Yeah. We're still a small farm. We're still growing, but it, uh, it's a, it's a business that, um, very small and it has been growing organically. You get. So I see us getting into more supermarkets, uh, getting into more, uh, restaurants because we do supply animals to a few restaurants and, uh, and, uh, some supermarkets. Uh, so, and also providing more seeds to other farmers that are into genetics, you know, one of, uh, the reason why we stand out is because we, our animals are animals of quality genetics. We produce not a lot of quantity, but quality animals. So I see us improving on that. Um, and yeah, it does growth. Uh, Nigeria has a big population. Farmers, I should say, have a very good, uh, future. Because Nigeria has a very huge population. You don't even worry about exports. People talk about exports, forget about exports. We have over 200 million people. Yeah. There's always going to be, uh, market for your product. Yeah. And, um, people should just, uh, I know it's tough, but people should just hang in there and keep pushing and, uh, brighter days are ahead. Do you think farming is the future for us in Africa? Yeah, of course. Of course. Africa has, uh, very fertile land. I think we've got the most fertile land among other continents. We've got a young, healthy population. And it's very sad that we import a lot of food. The amount of rice imported into Africa is, is, is, is quite a lot. It's a lot. Nigeria imports approximately $2 billion worth of dairy products every year. Because 98% of the milk we produce is imported. Pick milk, Dano, all this milk are imported and then packaged in Nigeria. You get what I'm saying? If you look at farms like Al Rawabi or Al Marai in the Middle East, Al Rawabi is in Dubai, in the UAE. Al Marai is in Saudi Arabia. They are running farms that, uh, farms in the desert. Here you can grow your pasture and feed your animals. They can't grow your pasture. They have to import pasture. They have to import everything to feed those animals and they're still making it happen. You hear what I'm saying? Al Rawabi produces, I think about 500 liters or 500,000 liters of dairy product every day. Al Marai is even bigger. You hear what I'm saying? When I hear you can grow your silage. Look, that's maize over there. This is the dry season. Look at maize growing in the dry season because there's a river there and it's been irrigated. You hear what I'm saying? There's no rain for some people. My friend visited a farm in Morocco in the desert. They only get rain maybe once in a year. I could imagine. There's a massive farm. They have over 500 dairy animals on that farm. They're producing milk, cheese and all those things. We don't have that in Nigeria. True. So, like South Africa is doing well. Kenya, the likes of Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda is also a powerhouse in dairy and livestock production. But Nigeria, we have the biggest population but we are lagging behind. So, I think more people should come into farming. And it's not something that can... It takes time to be honest. It's not something that you just invest today and make returns immediately. It takes time. You have to be patient. But there's a future and there's a lot of potential in agriculture. For a young person watching this video, a young African entrepreneur who is watching this video, what would be your advice for them? For someone who wants to go into cartoon farming, agriculture or anything at all? Yeah. My advice to aspiring farmers or young people trying to get into farming is, you know, start small and grow. Start small. Always start small. You know, it's good to start small because when you're starting, you don't have a lot of skills. You don't have a lot of knowledge in the business. If you start small, you learn. The losses are less when you start small. And then you can grow organically. When you start big, you pump in too much money and you lose. Then you get demoralized and you quit. You're discouraged. You're discouraged. But when you start small, you learn. Family is something you learn by doing. You get what I'm saying? It's not just by opening textbooks and reading online. No, you have to do it. You have to practice. When you do it, that's when you learn. So, that would be my advice for young people trying to get to start small and grow and be positive. All right. Yeah. That's that. There's always going to be challenges. Whatever you do, it's not just in agriculture. If you're a filmmaker, you're a model, a content creator, whatever you're doing, there's always going to be challenges. But the most important is to love what you do and be passionate about what you do. That will take you over the line. Even when times are hard, you keep pushing yourself because it's something you enjoy doing. Yeah. So, that would be my advice. My takeout would be start small and grow from there. Exactly. Yeah. So, I hope you enjoyed this video. And if you did, I'll drop details of Ninfam down in the description. Make sure to check them out. And if you enjoyed this video, as I said, like, share and subscribe. I'll see you in the next video. Peace.