HOW TO FEED and WATER YOUR PLANTS - Best Schedule
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZJtfaaqTJ3U
Entertainment
 What's going on everybody? Welcome back. My name is Pigeons and today we're going to be discussing feeding your plants, but more specifically when to feed, how much to feed, and perhaps the order in which you should be feeding. I don't believe there's a whole lot of information that really focuses on how much you should be feeding, when you should be feeding, and just a good routine to feed your plants. I want to get into this because I have kind of learned a little bit of information over the course of the last two years that I've really tried to figure out, implement, so that I could try to explain my results and share it with you. I also want to give a huge shout out to the channel sponsors, AC Infinity. Thank you for being a sponsor of this channel. If you're looking for anything in your tent, whether it's air circulation, you got humidifiers, AC Infinity is the best in the game when it comes to hooking you up in your tent. If you go to AC Infinity.com, use promo code Pigeons420, you'll save a few dollars off and check out on anything that's going to help you in the garden. Grow pots, auto watering systems, you name it, AC Infinity has got you covered. Huge shout out to Spider Farmer as well. These guys have got some of the most budget-friendly, best lights in the game. I've been using them for years and I swear by them. If somebody's looking for a new light, I'll throw Spider Farmer their way. Why? Because you can get it affordable. You can get some of the top lights and you know what? You can see the results right here. I update my Instagram, my social club all the time with the progress that we're getting, filling a 4x4 tent with one plant. A huge shout out to Spider Farmer for providing a light that'll help me get true coverage across the entire 4x4 area. If you go to spiderfarmer.ca, use promo code Pigeons5. You'll save a few dollars off and check out as well and you can mimic the same results. I've got over here. Now, for the feed schedule. Guys, this is pretty simple when you start to think about it, but I didn't realize it until it was brought to my attention. When I first started growing, I was doing a schedule that was a feed, water, feed, water, feed, water. So if Monday I fed, Wednesday I would water. If Wednesday was a water, Friday was a feed. Sunday was a water, Tuesday was a feed, so on and so forth. Then I started to change things up. I used to go, feed, feed, water. So Monday I would feed, Wednesday I would feed, Friday I would water. And then I was having a discussion with the owner of a nutrient company who said, well, you can just feed all the time. And then I thought, well, of course you would tell me this because I'm using your nutrients and you just want me to buy more nutrients. But then I thought about it and I thought, well, no, if it didn't work, I would have an overdose. My plants would be showing some kind of signs of too much nutrients, a burn, a lockout, something. So I thought, you know what? Let's give it a shot. So being reluctant that I was, I did a feed, feed, feed, water, feed, feed, feed, water. And then I noticed that, you know, things were looking a little sweeter. Things were getting a little plumper, no deficiencies. I thought, you know what? I'm going to give it a shot. So about two years ago, I thought I'm going to go feed, feed, feed, feed, feed, feed, feed. And this is about my fourth flowering tent that I've tried this regiment on. And I've had absolutely great results. There is no reason to water. I didn't realize that. But of course, you're going to keep a good close eye on your medium. If you're noticing that there is some kind of discoloration, some burning, some twisting, well, then you might have an indication that there's something going on inside that pot that might not be preferable preferred by that plant. That's when you're going to go down back to basics, grab your pH pen, get or grab your EC pen, grab your parts per million, do a runoff test, see what you got coming out of the bottom of that pot. And you're going to know exactly what's going on. Is it more than is it higher than what you're putting in? Is it lower than what you're putting in? That's going to tell you, but I can tell you from experience that I am now on my fourth grow. No, I've never had a toxicity. I've only ever had plants doing fantastic. Now, of course, I'm growing a dreadnought OG in my flower tent right now. And I undersized her pot. So I end up, I'm having to feed every single day because, well, the pot gets drier before the next day. And I got to feed again, feed again, feed again, feed again. So aside from it being a too small of a pot, she's accepting these nutrients really, really well. So then you got to ask, is there a benefit to running feed, feed, feed, feed, feed, feed, feed? Well, I'm noticing that these flowers are getting thicker. They're plumper. They're a little frostier. The terpenes are a little more expressive. Makes me think that perhaps there is something to a feed, feed, feed, feed schedule. Some additional feeding tips when you're feeding your plants is the mixing schedule or the mixing routine. You want to make sure that you're mixing your nutrients very specific. Start with your silica, then move to your CalMag, then get your micros, then you're going to add your grow, and then you're going to hit it with the bloom. Don't forget pH after you've added all your nutrients. Getting a proper pH is going to ensure that that plant can uptake those nutrients. Some nutrients are taken up at a different pH than others. So you want to make sure you're getting in that optimal range. For me, I'm sitting somewhere around that 6.3 to 6.8 pH, and you in cocoa or organic might be slightly different. But keep that in mind. pH is very important. If you're doing a feed, feed, feed, or a feed, feed water, if your pH is out, your plant is simply not going to take up the available nutrients. It's not there. Make sure that the water that you're adding to your pot is at room temperature. If it's too cold, it's going to chill your pot, which is also going to give it a stress, is also going to provide stressful environment for your plant to grow, and isn't beneficial. Also keep in mind that you are mixing in between nutrients. Once you add your silica, mix that watering can. Once you add your CalMag, mix that watering can. Once you add your grow, mix that watering can. Add the bloom, mix the watering can. Add your pH, mix it up. Then go ahead and add your nutrients. I don't pre-mix anything. I mix my nutrients as I need them. I always said, can't trust a man who doesn't hand water his plants, but that's just me. Guys, if you have any additional information that you want to add to this video, please include it in the comment section below. I know I probably missed something because that's kind of the way I run my style. If there's anything you want to add, I'd love to hear from you guys as always. Don't forget, you can follow me, Garden Videos, on Social Club, Instagram. We even do garden tours, on Twitter, everything, at Pigeons420. We will see you guys there. Thank you so much for being here. We'll see you tonight. Twitch.tv slash Pigeons420. Peace! tatsächlich<|it|> you you you