Fruit Trees Water Catchment & Kids Running Wild – Real Off-Grid Life
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZLGKGgtxjp0
People & Blogs
 Today, we are on a mission where we are expanding our homestead awesomeness by planting even more fruit trees and also digging in some basins and getting some fertility into our clay soil. If you didn't see last week's episode, head over, take a look, where we've got our very first fruit trees in the ground. A massive, massive step for me, my family and our homesteading dream. But first, before we start digging and planting, let's get some admin out the way and let's check if we have water because if you've been following my journey, you'll know how much we struggled with water and every time we come back, the pipes are empty. So let's check if they're empty. Cross fingers. Do you want to open it? Yeah. You open it for us. Which way? Just turn it. This way. Yep. Oh, I hear spraying. Let's go have a look. Now I go run. Ha ha. We have water. So this is one of the first times we've got here after a week and there is spraying water with huge pressure. Ah, this is such, such a massive relief because we've really, really, really been struggling with water. And now water struggle is done. Admin number one, admin item number one ticked off the list. The next thing I'm going to check out, just switch off here first. So the next thing I'm going to check out is the compost bin because that was also one of the previous videos we did. We created and filled up our compost bin. But I have done these compost bins before. And what I know about them is as things start to break down, they're reducing height quite significantly. So that's what I want to check. I have a couple of extra bags. I still need to bring an entire load or two to fill up the second bin. But I want to make sure we have the first bin full, constantly full so that by the end of it, we have a full bin of compost. And approaching it now, I can see, look how much it's dropped. It's dropped probably by a third, which is quite a lot. If you check down there. All the way, it was overflowing at the top. So it's gone all the way from there down. And it's, it is a good third of the way that it's dropped. So I'm going to pack in a couple more leaves here before we get started. But the fruit orchard is looking absolutely gorgeous. And if you want to have a laugh at me, I'm giving you permission to laugh at me. It's too hot. Oh, Mackie just freaked out. Oh, that's so gross. Don't hit the top on me. Those things are so gross. But you are allowed to have a laugh at me because the last time I got here, I got stuck like you cannot believe. Look at this. All the way from the top here, I started and I tried to get out, but we're on a, we're on a 12% slope, which is pretty decent. And when the clay soil gets wet, it turns into a sludgy mud bath. So if we check here, I got so horribly stuck and my cars are four by four, I had it in low range and I was going, literally just letting the torque with low range, try and get it out. And it was spinning just with torque. So it was wild. In the end, what I had to do just to get us out is reverse through. I had to drive through the fruit orchard. I literally, I had just planted one of those, I don't know where it is, if you can see it, the citrus tree over there. And I had to drive between the citrus tree and the pole and in between two other trees down there to get out into the bushes and then drive along the bushes all the way around and back up. It was wild. And that's why I'm parked all the way up there right now. And I'll rather do a couple of trips carrying trees than risk this all over again. So let's get some bags filling up the bin. Let's start creating some half moons for the water catching and let's get some more trees planted so this journey can seriously just go next level. Hope you enjoy! Bye! Morning has broken, my windows are open. Wanna feel the wind blow through my hair. Which way do I follow? What happens tomorrow? I turn to you and hope you can guide the way. Sometimes I give up, just wanna be on my own. Even in the darkest times you give me hope. So I lean on you when I've lost my way. I keep holding on for a better day. I lean on you when the world's astray. I left my heart open so you hear my praise. I left my heart open so you hear my praise. I left my heart open so you hear my praise. In times that are changing and when hope is fading, I know I can turn to your embrace. Cause there's so much beauty under your heaven. And I'm grateful every day. Sometimes I give up, just wanna be on my own. Yeah! Whatever you might do, I know. I'm He's écrit. I'm grateful everyone! The trick to onzepper 해야is for Shh. Soon I saved my heart. But I was able to make this whole idea. Nothing's over. There's no piens actual. I don't care if you're daughters. What's itís wonderful! A four or two hours. I maybe she should love you. Eventually make things less death. Yeah, I azure! Well you asked, she wants your nosaltres. Yes! But whatever you are! Maybe you helped. To do the punishments that are still alive. I always try. When the world's astray I left my heart open So you hear my prayer I left my heart open So you hear my prayer I kneel on you And I lose my way I keep holding on for a better day I kneel on you When the world's astray I left my heart open So you hear my prayer I left my heart open So you hear my prayer So I got my prayer We need to know Do you remember Let me know Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I've had it for about three weeks and I've spent the last three weeks training it up and actually getting it into a really nice shape. So it's still very small but kumquat trees are notoriously small. It's got a beautiful structure. It's good. We have a midnight valentia orange over here and then a grapefruit up at the top and a top red in front of me over there. So the trees are all starting to really come together nicely. I'm still needing quite a few of my stone fruit which is going to come into this second row over here which is still quite empty. But otherwise it's looking good. So what I'm going to do next, I don't have time for it in today's video because the weather has turned south. The kids have lost their sense of humor. It's just got really cold really quickly. I have managed to do another entire row of basins. There are nine basins in this one, seven in the top one. So it is quite a graft and you might have seen me actually needing to put my back strap on just because of my back surgery and how much hard work it is. But what I'm going to do next is you now know I have at the base of the trees, I've planted a cover crop. What I'm going to do now, super exciting and if you haven't thought of doing this yet, you really have to because I did it at my previous urban homestead. It worked like a charm. The basins, all the way around the outside of the basin, I'm trying to show you. If we look, I'm going to flip you around so I can show you. So if we look at the basin like that, all the way on the outside, on the ground level, I'm going to plant black oats. So they're all the way on the outside and that one all the way on the outside. So I'm going to have these external rings of black oats. Black oats have incredibly dense and deep root structures. So the idea there is as the rain comes down, hits the basins, fill the basins, the basins are going to seep water out that way. We're then going to start building up a nutrient and root zone just on the outside of the basins, which will further hold moisture, further transform the soil into more nutrient dense soil for the roots of the fruit trees. So if you haven't picked up between the lines, we're going very much organic, as much permaculture as possible. But I'm not a full fan of the full permaculture. So it's certain principles of that, certain principles of a little bit of everything else. But the idea is this legacy orchard needs to be self-sustaining. The food, the nutrients, the soil, the water, everything needs to just look after itself. I don't want any external inputs into this legacy orchard. If you didn't watch the first one, you can adopt any one of these trees that have not yet been adopted. We have three that have already gone. Just look how cool that is. A row of fruit trees. Yes, Noah? When are we going home? When are we going home? We're going to go now. Are you a little bit cold? Yes. He's a little bit of a grumpy bunny this late in the afternoon and wants to go home. So I still have some work to do, but it was once again amazing bringing you with on this journey. Thank you for all your support. You're all absolutely incredible. Until next time, happy homesteading.