Preservation program protects family farmland for future generations
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zoU4QlZsDuw
News & Politics
 Well, it is a program that aims to keep farmland the way it has been for generations in Ohio. Meteorologist Ben Gelber has been talking with a farmer who wants his property to remain farmland for generations to come, and that is getting harder to do. Yeah, Colleen and Mark, especially now in agriculture is the number one industry in Ohio, so that's very important, employing one in eight Ohioans and accounting for more than $124 billion in yearly investment. After the state lost nearly 7 million acres of farmland, a program was started to hold on to family farms. Not a lot of family farmers stay together anymore. They've been sold off. People are out of touch now where their food comes from. In the past 20 years, a voluntary easement program started by the Ohio Department of Agriculture has preserved more than 500 farms in 61 Ohio counties, offering incentives to protect nearly 80,000 acres from future development. I will be applying liquid nitrogen onto the corn after it is up. We honor farm families' commitment to keeping their farms in the family for 100, 150, 200 years. Farming in a way that is mindful of conserving the land, the water around it. That's one of the reasons farmers like Dale Sheridan in Madison County outside of London decided to participate. We are primarily corn and beans, do a little bit of wheat once in a while. Dale is a fourth generation farmer who has adopted the latest precision technology that also benefits the land. My great-grandfather bought it and then my grandfather farmed it. Farmers like Dale sampled the soil and used GPS planters and applicators. It helps conserve the soil and build up organic matter, which is very important for the carbon factor. It will help your yields and obtain water. It's part of our culture. It's part of our heritage. It's important to these families, but it's important to everyone in this state that we keep farmland in use. Farms that have remained in the same family for at least 100 years like Dale's are also eligible to be recognized in the Historic Family Farm Program. Local for you in the studio, meteorologist Ben Galbert, NBC4. Thanks, Ben.