Unknown Title
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zqIdnPwYr0E
Unknown Category
 agriculture on the move agriculture on the move agriculture on the move Good day again St Lucia Welcome to the program Agriculture on the move Philip Sidney your host Today we are discussing rodents or rodent control in agriculture simply means rats affecting our crops simply as it is But to be right is Mr. Christopher Lobin who is the owner and managing director of FDL Pest Control Solutions and of course next to him is Mr. Cletus Alexander who is the Crop Protection Officer at the Ministry of Agriculture Gentlemen welcome to the program Thank you Chris Boyer of course you are new to this area here but let us know who is Chris Lobin Give us a little background I am Christopher Lobin an agronomist by profession I started working in the agricultural sector at Winburn in 1985 where I worked with the plant pathologist and subsequently with both the plant pathologist and nematologist My work involved working with pesticides, nematicides, fungicides in controlling and secretive disease and also nematodes and other pests and bananas I was lucky to was working at Winland for 10 years to go off to do my first degree at the University of the West Indies where I studied agronomy of course and because of my performance I got an opportunity to start an MPhil slash PhD with a European funded project and then I lost all my research to Tropical Storm Debbie and the funds ran out so I basically moved on where I worked with Roan Polink which is now BIA Crop Science where I worked as an individual who developed pesticides between Latin America and the Caribbean with that company and subsequently Renick Incorporated which is a company that was based in Puerto Rico where I worked as a product development and marketing manager and after that I came back to St. Huchel and I formed FDL Pest Control Solutions because I worked with companies across the Caribbean and Latin America in pest management working out of Puerto Rico I worked both with agriculture, public health urban pest management and I had done a fair amount of work so I went off to study pest management both US and Europe and I have kept up in touch with that and I have done a fair amount of work with denticide companies and other pest management of manufacturers of pesticides based on my research background to develop them in the region Okay, great. Well, a wealth of knowledge Of course, clitor's I mean, everybody knows clitor's in Luzia clitor's has been with us in the ministry for a while of course right now I think it's Dr. Alexander now PhD PhD Rodents have been around for many, many, many moons We know the effect it has on crops as far as farmers are concerned From an economic standpoint it has set them back a lot We have tried rodenticides over the years and the rest is still around So, Chris, tell us what's happening now I'm hearing new things are happening in your collaboration with Chris So, give us a little background As you said, rodents they have been in for a while but in terms of agricultural production the cost of the estimated that between 2 to 10% of some crops is lost due to rodents Again, they are major vectors for some zoonotic diseases Rodents, they can affect the crop before harvesting and they can affect the crop after harvesting They can, at planting they can go and they can the seeds that you planted and they can cause a lot of problems in terms of the poor service It has been an issue in terms of the agriculture production in Zimbusia Basically, the farmers have depended a lot on nematicides but yes, you have had some level of control but you need something that is more sustainable on a yearly basis thousands of dollars of nematicides are imported into the country and based on that I was seeing that if you have to do some research in terms of the amount that is imported and control of the pest is it warrant further investment in nematicide? Is there a dire need for transition to something that is more environmentally friendly? Because again, you will use the rodenticide and it can basically contaminate the crop as well Also, you will kill some of the rats out in the field and again, that can be an issue for in terms of the safety of the crop So hence the reason for us now doing some trial in terms of something that is more environmentally friendly something, some fertility control for rodents basically something like a contraceptive in human being where you try and control the fertility of the male and the female so that you can have an impact in terms of the population but there are limitations in terms of the use of the fertility products it has to be sustained because once you stop it means they get back fertile again so multiply faster Mr. Lubin and I will try to do some fertility control for rodents and some fertility control for rodents basically something like a contraceptive in human being where you try and control the fertility of the male and the female so that you can have an impact in terms of the population but there are limitations in terms of the use of the fertility products and multiply faster Mr. Lubin and I collaborated on some research in the Roseau area so I think he is quite versed in the area and he is going to expand more on what we did at the during this trial Well, going back to Roseau was nostalgic that's why I started off as a more You're home, you're home But I worked with two rodentside producing companies one with the fertility product and one with anticoagulant but I want to start by saying we should try to change from speaking about rodent control to rodent pest management Yes because if we think like that we need to understand the biology of the rat and its food preferences and also the way the pesticide or the rodenticide works so we looked at the birth control product we looked at an acute poison and we also looked at two what we call anticoagulant rodenticides and if I can just go into that a little bit Yes, definitely Rodents' scent, taste is very important to rats Rats are omnivores like us, alright? and they are synanthropic which means that they benefit like cockroaches, ants and other insects they benefit from man in the sense that what we eat, they eat and what we do, they take advantage of it so the two most important factors would be in the case of a farmer I'd say the most important factor is sanitation because when you go on farms there are some indiscriminate use of food that's one but also what they are growing is food and if a rat is raised in that area eating a particular kind of food from its mother's womb it's very conscious of what to eat and rats now smell each other's mouth okay carbon disulfide is a smell that comes out of rats mouth or rodent's mouth and that's very important to the young Yes Okay That's the message Yes, they smell and they are very good at using that to eat because although they are omnivores, they are at risk outside there so rats, if they eat the wrong thing, they'll die so they've learned to use cues and there are three things that we can look at one I mentioned is that they look at the others another one is pica if they eat food and they are not too sure pica is practiced by some mammals they eat dirt and the clay in it will help it stick and get out but then because rats cannot vomit they can't vomit they have a very strong the valve between the stomach and the esophagus is strong so unlike us who use our diaphragm individually the two muscles and we can force this open, rats can't do that so because of that they would have to find a way to survive and making sure they understand food based on taste, smell is very important and also urine rats pee a lot on different things so in the case of female estrogen, progesterone is important the female rat which is who is about to go into heat would pee everywhere for the stronger male to come right? so they do it in some cases the younger rats that are not even there yet would pee on the stronger males so therefore they remember who to go buy you know? so it's science that I've already been said it yes, yes, yes so when we looked at the area farmers will complain about sweet potatoes oh yes corn, melons and pumpkins and pumpkins so the intention was to look at palatability how would the rats react to this so if I go back, based on how our age in this room here if we go back, farmers before used a product called phospho in cocoa and what they were doing was creating what's called bait shyness they were at it some would die, some wouldn't die but those that didn't die would remember what they ate and would not eat it for at least three months so that concept was very interesting to me in terms of trying to look at the crop because the farmers are saying okay, I'm buying how much rodenticide and I'm still seeing the problem so what I found out was a lot of them use pellets and pellets are designed for indoor use not outdoor use as experts we know how to use it in the field but the farmer doesn't so he was basically throwing money away and then we looked at the liquid which is not for general use so what we did was first put out the pestis, the rodenticides where we tinted food with liquid rodenticide we used the normal rodenticide but the two of them, one had more wax than the other and when we got two things we got uptake with the rodenticide and we got bait shyness with the food we then put the palatable then we put the sausage base which is the birth control and we got very good uptake on it now it's a long term trial the key here was to see palatability the farmers were very pleased because they saw the uptake and we were able to prove that we can prevent a rat from eating watermelon okay like the old people would say they would think that you know watermelon you eat for your mouth you know and they would need it we were able to prevent them from eating pumpkin and eat what we wanted them to eat and the uptake was great so how, how, how, how based on that I mean in, in Lehmans too how can that happen? that's a good quote in Lehmans too a farmer should not just think of I'm growing a crop so I can sell and make money he has to think of it and I said pest management okay so we have two kinds of rats in St. Lucia the roof rat seems to be the one that's affecting them the most because they would say to me we saw them pass on the branches of the, you know the trees are on the fronts of the coconut trees and we can see them moving so let's go backwards before people use that metal strip on coconut trees that's one, that's one factor that's very important right even though the trees if they have to two is know which rat and we can tell it by looking at the droppings of the rat and also if we see them because the roof rat has a much longer tail bigger ears, it's a slender rat it's a nicer looking rat compared to the Norway rat which we see all around the place right so it's important to know which rat is affecting you so the rats are in Kassu is these are the Norway rats these are the Norway rats in 2004 we did some work there some work it was very interesting they're all over but these are the Norway rats which are bulkier, stockier, heavier and they tend both rats don't always agree but we've seen places where they coexist okay so the important thing here is the farmer needs to understand if I'm going to grow potatoes I can impact the rat before I start my crop okay not when the crop is growing because the rats are there and like when farmers when they remember I spoke about sanitation when they leave whatever in the field their stuff there they need to clean that out but also they can use it to prevent rats from eating their crop okay and to Cletus's point the birth control can come in after because it's a long-term strategy so you can keep that population of rodents down and you now need to look at the other thing that was interesting is we use rodent bait stations and it's a monitoring device so I can always come and say okay yes they took it because farmers generally buy the rodenticide and throw them out and the rodenticide disappears but it does not mean they're at it so with the unit we have we can actually see that they nod on it and we keep on replacing so rodent pest management if I put bait and I come back and there's no bait left I did not put enough okay I must always come back and see some bait left because if it means the rats came in they hit everything and they went away now a farmer is always on his field so he can be trained to do that right but I'm happy with what I saw and a lot more work has to be done but we can from what I'm seeing and with some of the people that have interacted with us farmers can be trained to understand their field and understand what to do to reduce damage so what happens to a farmer next door who does not carry out that control will it affect come back and affect the stations where you bitted in that particular farmers say farmer number one you are working again but farmer number two doesn't do anything what happens? I remember okay again what he is saying is very important with the control whereby if there is an urgent situation in humans the use of the toxic pesticide is important because you will knock down the population but with the fertility control now what you will have is that yes they will be sterile but they are going to live as well you are depending on natural mortality to bring down the population so with the nematicide it will be much quicker than them and what you may have is that even if you control the population on some of the farms that you conduct in the recession you will have immigrants those neighboring areas you have the farm since there is a void now they will come into the area where you can treatment and then they will get the population hence the reason why you need continuous dating with the fertility so that they can because not only the parents that you are looking at fertility for looking at all the offstrings as well so fertility will be continuous okay okay okay okay okay okay i remember i indicated that they have a food preference right so if you put the two things together you are basically saying i'm trying to get them to not want to eat food in this farm but it doesn't mean that others would not eat from the other farm so there is a need for that structure in terms of how it should be done and it comes back to research we in the wind band days a lot of research was done in bananas but a lot of work is done now but there is no set research in these areas and i think farmers can be trained because the farmers we work with were initially a bit skeptical but when they saw the results they were yes it's gone and we will actually be able to prevent rats from eating corn prevent them from eating and go for the yeah and go for the birth control and it looks like a sausage so i guess it's something that's palatable enough for them and rats initially don't if there's something new they don't eat it up front remember i said they yes yes yes so they would taste it and if they now realize oh shucks this thing got me sick then they will come back to eat it they will leave messages for others not to eat it yes yes and so it's important and in that case they ate all they ate all of it so it's palatable so there is some interesting yeah so how many farmers you all worked with in that we worked with four farmers one corn watermelons pumpkin there's three farmers three farmers okay but i know there is a lot of rats when it comes to cocoa production so are you all hoping to well if there are opportunities there yes because it can rodents can be controlled okay we just need to take time to understand it so rodents rats don't sit well people need to first understand that rats don't sit well rats feel rats feel so they have special hairs on their bodies called vibrisi the whiskers so a rat runs the whiskers come far you never see a rat run into a wall because it's a way of its surroundings and they will mark like I said they will mark with their urine so if something was moved they would mark it to no way that was there it wasn't there so they work with that so if it's a roof rat we first have to establish whether it's a roof rat or whether it's norway rats affecting them okay and if it's norway rats they burrow in the wrong roof rats are in the trees and they leave because they don't sit too well and they rub they leave those rub marks so they're sebaceous glands what we call ring around the collar they produce that and they mark the areas they go through heavily so we would see that and we can train people to understand what's fresh and what's still so it's important to know the habits of the rat again I come back to pest management not pest control because if not you're doing the same thing over and over expecting a different result it's not going to happen okay there's of course we know about the rat urine and leptospirosis yes okay how can that be controlled in terms of would you think there will be less leptospirosis using that method with less rats around? I would say in the farming areas you would have less rudents and less chance of that happening okay okay so the key thing is monitoring systems and a rudent bit station makes a difference not throwing the bit around because in a farm it's out it's in the open the rodenticide is not going to last forever right so it's important to put it in an area if we find the runway of the rat you don't put stuff in the runway because they know that wasn't there so you have to now trick them into finding it okay so you have to look at home and food and remember they have a preference already so what you put in you just add into the menu right so it's important to understand how so you have to understand the ammo of the rat yes exactly you have to feed that the rat but we seem to be focusing a lot on rats but mice as well oh yeah so it's rat and the mice the mice yeah so for us it is very important creating what is called the beet shyness because if you have a watermelon crop you should not wait when this the the the rats start eating a watermelon that is in the control yes the beating but what you can do is if you know your watermelon will be ready for probably in a couple of weeks what you can do is try and you can purchase a watermelon put the watermelon in the beet station apply the the the the the liquid nematicide and the beet shyness the roodenticide the roodenticide the roodenticide so um it's it was very interesting to um again the farmers who they were very receptive to um the the research and we look at the and we look into and probably scale up if you can get other regions where um The road empty site. So it was very interesting to, again, the farmers, they were very receptive to the research. And we're looking to probably scale up. If you can get other regions where we can transfer the technologies to the other regions where crops are being cultivated. So how long this thing has, you did this? I did it for three weeks. We did it for three weeks just to understand the palatability. But also in that time we inspected. We were on the farm at least twice a week. Sometimes every other day. We just wanted to make sure that, like I mentioned earlier, if we put rodenticide in the bait station, it should not run out. So we had to go as frequently as we possibly could. Farmers also have to be trained. You have your farm, your shed. The way you eat and what you do inside is important. So that's the sanitation part again. So it's not just one thing. Okay, we can put rodenticide until we get blue in the face. If we don't understand the why, we fail. So the food is what we want to protect. You create big chinas. You use the product. You reduce the population. And it's not only in rodents you now have this happening. It happens with birds. There are things that can be used. So it's a range of activities that should be done on a farm. And the farmer has to pay attention to it because if not, he will always have issues. And he can be trained to see the runways of the rod, to look at where they come from. And they know it. They see it. It's just to understand how to use what they have to control. So, okay, so you all worked in Rozo. Yes. Okay, so where else will that be replicated? We're looking at Region 5. That's in the V4 area. Also, we did it on the watermelons, the pumpkins, and the corn farmer. Very important to us will be having a trial with a sweet potato farmer. Yes. Because we know there's a serious issue in terms of the rat infestation in sweet potato. So once you can get a sweet potato farmer who is interested, you can transfer the technology to whatever region that we feel that we can have the trial on. What was interesting to me is the potato farmer said to you, there is, you know, there are still potatoes in the field after harvest. So, you know, there might be small potatoes or pieces. They are left in the field. And that's the source of food. Some of them might start to grow because they didn't till the land. Because we actually went back when that process started. So we didn't just come and we went back to look at it. So the lands were being prepared. So that's when you now would disturb the potatoes, right? But in some cases, if you look at it from a practical perspective, some of them might already be growing and now you're digging it up. And remember, rodents, you smell. So if they sense that, they can be coming back from that early. And then you plant your crop and they now know, hey, I have a source of food. So it's important that habits change. Some of the practices have to be adjusted. And we can have good success. Okay. So at what point will that rodenticide be available to the public for purchasers, I'm sure? Yeah. But this is something that the ministry would have to decide. We can't. We wouldn't. Because it's something that requires proper training to use. Okay. It's dangerous stuff. You know, no pesticide is safe. And you want to make sure it's used the right way. And I say that simply because over the years, what we've learned is farmers or people use different products as rodenticides. Fewer than, for example, was one of the main ones that was used for years. And farmers mix stuff. Even down to using the cans where they cook it and then, you know, they tint the food. So I think it's important for people to understand the why, the how, what you do. And it's important to document it. That way people are aware and the training is taken seriously. If not, we will start something. And then if it's not done properly, people will see it as a failure. Okay. And we need to make sure people understand what's being done and why it's being done. Okay. So there have to be that collaborative situation with the Ministry of Agriculture to ensure that it works. Yes. So, yeah. Okay. You mentioned, you said when would the nematicide, sorry, be available on the market. Firstly, it has to be evaluated by the pesticide and top of the chemical control board. Because if a new product is coming into the country, we will need to do the necessary risk assessments to mitigate some of the impacts of the product. So once this is done, the product can be taken to the board for registration. Okay. So right now, it's just a test of trials. Yes. Right on. Yeah, man. Like I said, again, so you do have any specific time frame before it gets to the board for approval? It's difficult to put a time frame because if a registrant submit a dossier, it means, well, after reviewing this particular dossier, you may ask for further information. Where was it tested? Where was it tested? Well, while going through the dossier, you may see something where you see some impact, some hazard on the dossier. The registrant will need to prove to you that some of the persons or where it was some of the risks that he's presenting, where it was mitigated. Some of the research papers that was done on this particular product. So all these important pieces of information, they're very important in terms of the registration of the product to mitigate the risks associated with the product. So there's no time frame? No, there's no time frame there. But still there is opportunity to train farmers until that time to understand what they should and shouldn't do. Okay. Yes. Because it's not going to happen overnight. But my observations, because in our industry we are observational biologists, my observations are people want a quick fix, but you're dealing with a pest that has been around for a very long time. And being synanthropic, it's adjusted its lifestyle to us. So we need to readjust. And it will not happen with just a pesticide. Right, right. It has to happen with an attitudinal change towards understanding. I have my crop. I want to make sure I save. You know I have maximum yield and less damage. What do I need to do? And years ago we've been trained with farmers where, for example, using fogging, missing, sorry, for secret to control. Right. And things like that. You have to train. People need to understand wind direction in that case, how to move through the crop. It's no different in this case. It's to understand how I should use a rodenticide. And if I understand that and I see the results, I believe. If I don't see the results. Then of course we continue. I don't, yes. Konakutim. Again, what's very important for us is that the farmers, they've been really reliant on pesticide use. And the use of pesticide is not the only means of controlling rodents. So there are other technologies available for controlling rodents. Right. Like what we try and presently the fertility control, the use of carbon monoxide and probably the blocking of the borrows. There are lots of other measures available. But specifically we feel that the use of the fertility product is going to, again, the product is an organic product. Oh, yes. That's another thing. In terms of environmental protection and food safety. Great. It will help in that regard. Final question, Misa? Me, I hope it catches on. I love research. That's what I was. I know that. As a professional, that's where I was. My profession started. Definitely. And I think urban pest management, pest management in agriculture, it's very important to understand the why and the how. We should not just be applying stuff for a planet's sake. That's correct. And I think it's important for all involved to take it seriously for an end result. For me, it's good food security. Great. The Ministry of Agriculture, we've been talking about food security for a very long time. And if you are able to control the rodents in watermelons, in the cantaloupes, in the pumpkins, in sweet potato, there can be at least a 10% increase in those crops. Definitely. Which can benefit. More money, more money. Yes. Gentlemen, thank you for being here. I wish you all success. And I'm sure that once you all are on track of what you do, we will get there. Thank you again. Thank you. You've been watching Agriculture on the Move. We want to thank you for viewing the program. We always want to tell you, remember, agriculture is our business. And we need to eat fresh. And we need to eat fresh. St. Lucia's best. Because once you can control the rodents, obviously, we'll have an increase in production. Thank you again for viewing. I'm Philip Siddis saying goodbye. And see you again. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Afterking you, everyone. We are all joyous. You're all joyous. We are here. Thank you. Good evening. You