Types of Agricultural Careers - Science and Technology
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZqLb87Oe-2o
Education
 Did you grow up doing science experiments for fun? Do you enjoy your science classes in school? Do you like spending time on a computer or your phone? If you said yes, then a career in science and technology might be right for you. You can find some of the most interesting careers in science and tech where you least expect it. I'm talking about agriculture. Over the next 30 years, we have to find a way to go from feeding 7 to 9 billion people. The agricultural science and technology industry will be the ones to do this. This means that science and technology in agriculture is becoming more and more important, which also means that there are many new jobs in this field and that there is a great future outlook for current jobs. Let's take a look at some of the paths within science and tech. You could work in research, engineering, biotechnology, livestock and animal science, food science, plant science, and even food and ag technology. Let's take a closer look at some of the careers. You could be an animal or plant geneticist. These people research and analyze the DNA of plants or animals to learn more about them. Another career is a food production supervisor. They oversee assembly lines or a food production facility. A packaging engineer designs packaging for agricultural products and companies. One last career we'll take a look at is a precision ag specialist. These people use precision ag technology in order to increase the efficiency of farming. There are many other careers that fall into the category of ag science and tech, but I just couldn't mention them all here. One of the largest new fields is IT, which stands for information technology. This includes web, software, and app development as well as other careers. There is a career for everyone in ag science and tech. Some of these jobs require no education beyond high school while some require a doctorate. One more interesting fact is that the average agricultural science and technology career makes $71,405 each year. To learn more about these interesting careers, check out Beyond the Farm on YouTube, Facebook, and Instagram, and also take a look at agcareers.com.