15 Survival Foods Every Prepper Should Stockpile - Most Bang for your Buck
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZyI9V-Kef7M
Howto & Style
 Hello YouTube, it is Chris here and in today's episode we're going to be discussing the top 15 survival foods that every prepper should stockpile. Welcome back everybody and thank you for sticking with me. You heard right, today's episode we're going to be covering the top 15 survival foods that every prepper should stockpile. Now when most people think of survival foods, their brains pretty much default to things like freeze-dried food, MREs, and other survival type foods like survival tablets. However, the main focus of this episode is going to be centered around the 15 items that are going to be very easily acceptable at your local grocery store and wholesale food clubs. The very first item in the list is actually going to be rolled oats. Now the reason why I made the top of the list is because it's one of my favorite long-term self-stable foods. This, when properly stored outside of the retail packages, it can last 25-30 years just like things like rice and beans. However, even the retail packaging, you can expect anywhere between 18 to 24 months, which is very, very shelf-stable if you need it. One of the really good things about this is it's very easy to prep. You just pour this in some boiling water. You can add some honey or some sugar, a little bit of milk. You have a very, very satisfying filling nutritional meal. Next on the list, trailing right behind rolled oats, is honey. Honey is fantastic. This is probably the one that even non-preppers know about, given the fact that it has an extraordinarily long shelf life, if not indefinite. It is touted as long as just a natural sweetener. It can be used as an immune booster, cough suppressant. It can help fight infections. It can be used for wound healing. You can take this for gut balancing, if you're kind of a little wonky with all those funky survival foods, and some of your stuff might not be imbalanced, to actually help remove parasites out of your gut. If you have some bad nasties inside your system, you can take some little parts of vinegar, water, and honey. There's recipes online. I'll link one of my favorites on the video description to actually do some parasite removal. One of my absolute favorites is alcohol. Yeah, that could be taken out of context. You get what I'm saying. But more importantly, vodka. Actually, the strong stuff is what I'm more interested in out of all of these, but most of these would work in most of the situations. So, alcohol is great as a fire starter, if you need it, because it's so highly flammable. You can use this inside of alcohol stoves. More recently, we've been able to use it as hand sanitizer. If you want to figure out how to do that, there'll be a video on the right-hand corner to figure that out. You can use it as an antiseptic for wounds, a sleep aid, if you're having a lot of stress and anxiety, a little bit, you know, your brain's a little too active. This being a natural downer, you could take maybe a shot of that and kind of knock yourself out for the night, or just use melatonin if you see fit. You can use it as an excellent barter item. I love these guys because they're easily transportable. You can trade things out like chicken eggs and other types of food, medical supplies, things like that you might need. And you can also use this to sterilize your needles, tweezers, scissors, if you have to do any type of emergency trauma or first aid on a particular person and you don't have access to a hospital. Next on the list is apple cider vinegar. This is a powerful one that a lot of people, I think, that even non-preppers already know. In the food realm, if you want to use this to actually make things like salad dressings or you want to use it inside of cooking fish, apple cider vinegar is very good for you. It's a natural antifungal. It can help lower your blood pressure if you take a little bit of it regularly mixed into some water. It's a great household cleaner if you can't find any cleaner in the shopping aisles because everyone is panic-shocked and took everything from you. And last but not least, something that I just learned recently is a great to repel things like fleas and ticks off of your pets in a solution of water and you spray it on them. The next on the list is powdered milk. I love this prep. This is a prep that actually was not in my list for a very long time. It is now because I realized how amazing this stuff really is. One, it's very, very self-stable. It's an excellent source of calcium and protein, an excellent barter item for families with young children. If you add it to items like granolas, oatmeals, and cereals, it can fill those up and give you those calories for your first meal of the day for things that you're storing. And not to mention, you can use this to make butter because butter can be quite hard to find if you don't know what to look for out there. And if you have any lactose intolerant, an alternative to try is goat's milk. It's substantially more expensive, but it is out there. Next on the list is canned meat. This stuff is extremely shelf-stable. Something I didn't even know. This stuff will be good on the shelf for like two to five years, which is an incredibly long time. The good benefits of this is all of this stuff is already pre-cooked, which means there's a lot less time having to make your meals. So when you're combining it with things like pastas and rices and beans to fill out your meals and give it a more dynamic flavor profile and good rich protein and amino acids and all the really important stuff you need, it's already ready to go. Now, some of the cheapest stuff to get is like spam, pulled pork, or even chicken. However, if you like it or you're not allergic to it, I highly suggest things like salmon or tuna, like yellowfin tuna. But the pink salmon has a really good omega-3 profile. And with a lot of the amino acids and stuff like that, antioxidants you need, then the really good fatty oils that are in a lot of this food is going to be well-rounded and well-suited for if you're in a shelter-in-place situation and you've kind of got to keep yourself kind of mentally focused and healthy and good for muscle repair, all the good things. What I'm saying is if you can have the meat, get the meat. Next up is protein powder. It can be unflavored or flavored. You take your pick. I love it because it's very self-stable, very easily transportable. I can take this with like a protein shaker and put in some snack baggies with a little protein shaker and literally be able to put like eight or nine servings in there and I'm good to go. Just like the name suggests, it's an excellent source of protein. However, if you mix this with something like your powdered milk and you mix it in some water, it'll give you an excellent meal replacement if you need some extra calories to combine with something like your crazy rice and beans. Another good reason to have this stuff is if you have a picky eater in your family or you have a family member or a friend who is in your group who is injured or sick and they can't take just chewing and processing normal food, they can have liquid nutrition that's a little bit more gentle on their stomach and they can have that ready to go. Next up is water and water filtration. Now, the reason why I didn't make number one on the list because I didn't think a single person prepper or non-prepper forgot about this freaking item. However, you want a really good way to store your water. Having water containers, 50-gallon drums, water catchment systems, whatever you have available, do it. However, having water short-term is great because you can only go three days without water. However, if you get into a more long-term situation and you don't have access to a well, you need an ability to be able to filter out your water. So having something like a zero water filter and having a couple of those in your fridge like you guys know that we do from some of the items and other past videos we've done. But also, if you need to be a little more mobile or let's say the situation calls for you have to go kind of travel and get some questionable water, having these water containers and big huge jerry cans to be able to collect and filter out your water is going to be vitally important. Next up is one of the most powerful of the dynamic duo in the prepping world is beans. The holy grail of all prepping food, according to everyone on the internet. But it's not not true. This is an excellent source of energy, rich in protein. It's loaded with vitamins, minerals, amino acids. Talking about if you can't get access to really anything else but like something like rice and beans or pasta and beans, which is a little weird but totally doable, this is the way to go. First reason why it is super, super cheap. You can go to your local grocery store or a wholesale food club like Sam's Club or Costco and you can get a 50 pound bag for like $45. And just for transparency of what that gives you, that's like for 45 bucks, that's 67,000 calories of ridiculousness, which basically will be one bean. And personally, I don't suggest that. I'd rather have varieties of different types of beans that have a different flavor profile. When I get really bored and I want to spice up my boring survival life, I can do the 15 bean soup and have a little bit of fun. But all of these have different textures and flavor profiles, but they all do inherently the same thing, which is give you the nutrients and the vitamins and minerals you need. Well, if I'm talking about beans, we got to talk about rice. I mean, if we don't talk about rice, that's just crazy because combined, these make one of the best survival foods ever. Now, it could get a little boring because that's all you're eating for like 90 days at a time. However, it is really, really, really cheap. You can get four of these 25 pound bags in my city, and it's a little cheaper and more expensive depending on where you're located, but it's like 35 to $40 for 100 pounds of rice. That's absolutely crazy. And when you combine all the nutritional value and all the good things that you get from beans, ballpark of like 126,000 calories. Now to break that down on like basically a 1200 to 1300 calorie diet in a survival situation, that's 100 days worth of food for like 85 bucks. That's absolutely freaking crazy. Adding this and this, you're pretty much good. So in addition to just eating, you can use this to declump your salt. You can actually make rice water. And why rice water is important is it can be used for your health and hygiene because it can help treat things like from eczema all the way to help you cure diarrhea if you don't have any of it, if you run out of that stuff in an emergency. Another awesome DIY hack is you can use uncooked rice, stick it in a sock, and you can use this as a DIY heating or ice pack. Instead of spending all of your precious resources on really expensive ice packs, you can literally take the uncooked bag of rice, you can stick it in your microwave for like two minutes, let it cool for about a minute, use it as a heating pack if you need to. Or for an ice pack, you stick it in the freezer for about 30 minutes and boom, wham, bam, thank you, ma'am, you are good to go. And finally, one of the more common things is it can be used. Obviously, it's very good for absorbing water. So if you get any electronics such as like your older cell phones, flashlights, things like that, and you need to draw the moisture from that particular device, you can get a bowl of uncooked rice, dip it in there, let it sit overnight for 24 to 48 hours. And lo and behold, in most situations, you'd be surprised how many electronics you'll save with the power of rice. So in the carbohydrate category, one of my favorites is pasta. Pasta, very shelf stable, very energy dense, just as easy to prep. The one thing I want to showcase is that for a pound of rice, you get about 591 calories, which sounds like a lot. But for one pound of pasta, it's 1,687. Though it may cost about one and a half times as much as rice, I am getting about triple the calorie density. So for me, having a very healthy stockpile of very shelf stable carbohydrates and pasta is a very, very, very good thing. Easily, for most preppers considered the most delicious of all the survival foods, is potato flakes. Not only inside of Mylar bags being stored properly is Uber shelf stable, but is a really good source of things like your B vitamins, vitamin C, potassium, all that good stuff. But it can help up spice up your meals. You take that powdered milk, you make some butter, add a little bit of salt, put this bad boy in there, you have one tasty meal. Now, if you're going to do something like your rice and beans, maybe you want to make it more of a soup texture, you can use this to thicken up your food, add some more substance, some more calories, some more energy, some starches. It's a really excellent, excellent survival food to add to your preps. And considering the fact that it's really super cheap, these are like a dollar or two for a huge pack, and that can make a ton of mashed potatoes, it's good to go. Rounding down before we get to our bonus items is herbs and spices. If not for anything else, just to flavor your food and make it more dynamic, because there's a very strong possibility if you have in a quarantine or bug-in situation or a lockdown protocols that some of us are dealing with right now, your food choices could be a little limited and a little boring. So we want to kind of have some fun and spice it up and kind of really get creative with the very limited resources you have. And the very last item before we jump into the bonus foods on this list are vitamins. Though not a food, can be essential, because if you are used and your body has particular needs for vitamins, minerals, antioxidants, you may not be getting enough of what you need. So being able to have a supplementation with vitamins or specific stuff like potassims in individuals is kind of a very smart idea for a long-term situation. If you're gonna be out in the woods or in a short-term lockdown situation because of like a storm, should you start going a multivitamin up? Probably not. But if you're in a situation where malnutrition and long-term effects or like economic collapse, you know, something really bad long-term, having a stockpile of multivitamins could be crucial to kind of keep you going longer. So now we move on to the lightning bonus round. And if you made it this far in this episode, I just want to let you know you're awesome. So the very first one is avocado oil. Whether you want to add this to your rice and beans, any of types of smorgasbord of awesome food that you decide to cook in your bugging situation, or your protein shakes, this will add a lot of calories, nutrient density, and really, really healthy fats to your diet without working too hard. Ghee. This is actually butter. This is clarified butter. But what I love about it is so I don't have to jump into my powdered milk food stores and I can use it more for bartering and cooking and stuff like that. This is shelf-stable butter. It does not have to be refrigerated, which is amazing. It's a little bit more expensive than normal butter, but it is fantastic. Next is coffee, because, well, that's going to be, I'm pretty sure I feel like if I didn't include this, I just would have been like, just harassed in the comments with all the evil people who I didn't get their caffeine fixed before they watched this episode. So this is why this is here, because it's really good. And for all you caffeine addicts, come chase it. Come get me. Come get me. Come get me. Beef jerky. Dried meat is good. This is one of my favorites is zero sugar, because it has the least amount of crap in it, and it still is going to be good for a good year or two. It is really good in the short term to have some supply of meat on you. It's fun. It's a good healthy snack, and it's easily transportable. So if you have to be on the go, maybe you're standing in line looking for a new job because there's some economic issues, or you're out in the woods and you're playing and you want to get some meat in the middle of hunting and fishing, boom, jerky. Staple? Awesome. Well, that just about does it for the top 15 survival foods that every purpose is to stockpile, plus some of our bonus foods that we decided to add to this list. And hopefully throughout all this, it's going to reinforce some of the staples that you used. And like we said before, if there's any other foods that you feel is an absolute essential that we just chose not to add to our top 15 list, definitely add it down to the commandment section of this episode. But with that said, if you enjoyed this video, give it a thumbs up. And if you loved it, definitely consider subscribing. But with that said, see you in the next one. I'm going to go next to Dollar Speed to work. I'm just going next to will ya. I'm going to go next, to Target 3<|en|> $100,000