before every subtask," and since the main task (related to the transcript) is handling video notifications, then the subtasks would be each instance of confirmation. Thus, since there are 15 instances of "We'll be right back," perhaps they validate each of those breaks. But how physically demanding is that? Ideally, if this is an actual video where the person is, say, driving a tractor, they might need to physically stop the tractor, pause the camera, then get out to do something, which adds physical tasks. But again, the transcript only states their confirmation. Alternatively, maybe they don't even move, and it's just a heads-up to the audience. So, for the purposes of task generation, maybe the main physical tasks are standing or sitting for the duration of the video, with periodic acknowledgment of each break. Hmm. If I need to connect this to farming, perhaps one way is that KOLYA is a farmer doing a livestream of their farm activities, and during the stream, they need to tend to something, so they use video breaks. So, in that case, the main task could be Livestreaming farm operations, with subtasks including acknowledging video intermissions. However, given that the video transcript is just KOLYA's reaction to the pause notifications, maybe another approach. Alternatively, maybe the transcript is part of instructions on how to handle video breaks. But in that case, the user is a farmer looking at such instructions. Then, the task would be understanding or following instructions related to handling video pauses during a farm tour or recording. But again, the transcript is the user reacting to the instruction lines (which are "We'll be right back") so the actual task for the farmer would be acknowledging these breaks during their recording. But without more context, I can't be certain. Given that the user is saying "oh yes," which is a positive reaction, maybe they're enjoying seeing the video, but given the repeated notifications, perhaps they're just saying it because the video is saying it. Alternatively, maybe they are getting notifications in a game or app related to farm simulations or management, where each time you need to return to the game, you get a prompt. Wait, but the transcript isn't about a game; it's someone reacting to video notifications. It seems to me that the level of detail here is very minimal, and the description of physical tasks required here is probably minimal. The main physical tasks could be just noticing the recurring notifications and mentally or verbally confirming. But if the person is required to physically move during the breaks, like leaving their post, then perhaps there's more to it. However, the transcript doesn't mention them leaving or moving, just acknowledging. Thus, perhaps the main tasks are related to remaining stationary while interacting with the video. But given the instructions need to generate such tasks, I have to create relevant ones. If the answer can't be derived from the transcript, but as per the instructions, I need to generate a list of tasks related to physical activities from the transcript, even if they might not make sense. But in this case, is there any physical actions related to the transcript content? The transcript is KOLYA reacting to video notifications and the yellow exclamation. The only physical action that could be inferred is the act of pausing and resuming the video, which would involve interaction with a device, but since the transcript doesn't give specific actions, this is speculative. Given that the user is reacting with "oh yes" and "A," perhaps they are nodding or affirming, but the main point is with the video interactivity. So, MAINTASK: Interaction with video notifications. Subtasks: Noticing recurring notifications, acknowledging "We'll be right back" multiple times, maybe noticing the yellow exclamation. But with the lack of context, perhaps recognizing a yellow exclamation could be a task if people associate that with a warning or ad break. However, given the transcript doesn't mention any specific actions or locations, all we can do is acknowledge putting together noticing the notifications and the confirmations mentally or verbally. Then, probably, another task line if there was more to it. But given only this transcript, I think that's all the physical tasks relate to. Hence, the final answer.